ParlaMint-DK_20190222100036	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a labour market protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190222100114	The debate is open. And that's the finance minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222100132	It's a proposal for green budgeting by Mr. Christian Poll. Yeah, it could be exciting to make a little budgeting for Mr. Knox. Christian Poll, but this is, in fact, a motion for a resolution from the Alternative on Green Budgeting in general and not just by Mr. Christian Poll. The alternative will require the government to also present a green budget at the same time as the submission of proposals for the 2020 Finance Act and subsequent financial laws. Just to outline it, I would say that the Finance Act is, as it were, the household budget for the society of Denmark. That is where we have a picture of total revenue and expenditure in the coming year, and thus it is an important instrument in the planning of economic policy. That is the main purpose of a Finance Act. The purpose of the resolution is then to ensure that economic policy with consequences for the environment, nature, climate and energy is taken into account as well as to assess how the government is doing in the green area. In fact, I fully understand the ambition to look further at how we focus on the green area when we make political decisions. However, I think that the government already does so to a large extent, and that will be reflected in my speech. A number of professional assessments are already being carried out on the actions that have an impact on the environment and nature, on climate and energy. Efforts under a Finance Act and with green consequences are covered by the professional assessments carried out both by independent institutions and by ministries which carry out tasks in the green field. That's one of them. The Environmental Economic Council, which prepares analyses to illustrate the interaction between the economy and the environment, and the Council should highlight the effectiveness of environmental action. It has also been decided to continue the operation of the green national accounts in 2019 and 2020, which can provide useful additional knowledge about the interaction between the economy and the environment. The Climate Council provides advice and analyses of the green transition in Denmark, and over the last few years, for example, the Climate Council has. published reports on the impact of biomass on the green transition, on the transition to a society with lower greenhouse gas emissions up to 2030, and on proposals for climate-friendly tax adjustments. At the same time, the Climate Council holds conferences on issues such as: Danish climate action. Finally, the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate has prepared the annual climate policy statement, which contains such an overall overview of the climate action, including inventories of CO2 This is where we provide status and full information on Denmark's climate commitments and a description of the historical and expected future climate and greenhouse gas emissions. A regular baseline projection is also being prepared, and this is the assessment of how energy consumption, energy production and greenhouse gas emissions will evolve all the way up to 2030. The Ministry of the Environment and Food regularly publishes nationwide reports on the state of the environment in Denmark through the national programme for monitoring the aquatic environment and nature produced by Aarhus University. In addition, detailed assessments of the development, status of groundwater, air quality, watercourses, lakes, the sea, habitat types and species are ongoing. In addition, there is also a proposal that there should be an environmental assessment of all the consequences, in legislative proposals submitted to the Folketing. So today it is the case that the mandatory impact assessments drawn up as part of the legislative proposal contain an environmental impact assessment. When a legislative proposal is tabled, it must be the Ministry responsible to assess whether the legislative proposal will have significant consequences for the environment. So today we have seen a good scientific basis for assessing whether the decisions we take and whether the legislation adopted in the Folketing affects the environment and, if so, how it affects. In addition, the alternative, as in the case of the rest of the Danish Parliament, has the possibility of asking questions about the legal proceedings as part of the work herein. This also applies to the treatment of the Finance Act, which the Alternative has actually used. After all, you also asked questions about and forwarded an overview of new concrete actions in the 2019 Finance Act, which is considered to have a more direct impact on greenhouse gas emissions, from the Alternative's side. So there is work going on and, as I started by saying, I actually have a great understanding of the view of the alternative in this area. It is actually quite essential that we know what the consequences are of the decisions we may take. But with this review, I think I have also made it clear that we are already in the process of doing so in a large number of areas today, and that is why I do not agree with the alternative that it is not possible to decide on the impact of the overall economic policy on the green area. As part of the resolution, the Alternative also criticises the government's failure to commit itself to green budgeting in the OECD. I would just like to say that I have therefore replied to the Danish Parliament, and this is also clear in the past, i.e. it is actually clear from the comments on the draft law that it has been answered. The answer is that the OECD initiative was launched in December 2017. And the answer also says that the government will engage forward. The next meeting is at the end of April this year; the Ministry of Finance participates. So we are in and participate, including internationally, and I think the alternative should recognise that. I'd like, if I can, to try to calm the alternative. You are concerned that we are not aware of the consequences in the green area when we make economic decisions. We are. And it is important for the government that energy, climate and environmental policy are closely linked to economic policy. Sound economic policy is the prerequisite for us to be able to afford to give priority to new measures, new initiatives, including green ones. Let me just give you a few examples of what we are trying to do about the green and economic areas. With the abolition of the PRS tax, energy and financial policy are increasingly reduced. We abolished the PRS tax so that expenditure is transferred to the Finance Act and therefore priority is given to all other types of expenditure. Together with the Danish People's Party and Radical Left, the government has entered into an agreement on the issue of the pool for strategy for circular economy. And with the agreement, as I have already mentioned, we are allocating funds, among others. to continue the green national accounts. This provides useful additional knowledge about the interaction between the economy and the environment. The government has also concluded an energy agreement with all the parties of the Folketing, including, of course, the alternative. And with the agreement we are expanding Denmark's international leadership position. We get more renewable energy, we get more energy efficiency improvements, we get more research, we get better energy regulation. The Energy Agreement also supports that, as far as possible, it is the market that drives the transition by removing some of the barriers that have existed in order for the market to take up more of the green transition. As part of the Energy Agreement, we agree that we should work towards a net zero emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement and a target for a net zero emissions in both the EU and Denmark by 2050. We work both nationally and internationally to achieve the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement. Most recently, we have launched an ambitious climate and air project. Overall, this means that we are well on the way to achieving our climate target, which must be achieved by 2030, already with the initiatives that are ahead, while proposing a number of initiatives to reduce air pollution in cities. It is therefore an overall plan for achieving objectives, with contributions from both concrete short-term and long-term efforts, as well as a strengthened research effort. A number of initiatives have already been adopted, including: with the 2019 Finance Act. Others require prior analysis work. Commission work on how to make a green transition to our transport sector or dialogue with municipalities before we can take the next steps. I therefore agree with the alternative that there should be a focus on the green area, and the government is working for that already today. In my view, there is already a high degree of transparency and a good opportunity to assess the impact of the policy on the environment and climate, as well as the initiatives in the Finance Act. The government cannot therefore support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101016	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101020	Thank you. I will start by recognising and looking forward to the government getting involved in the work of the OECD, because I think that is where things can move in the long term. It is true, as the Minister of Finance has also said, that there is a lot of what might be called ad hoc interventions, so that we move something there and we measure something there and we lift something there. What is our point with this proposal is, of course, that we should try to do it systematically once a year when we talk about financial law, because that is where we bring together, like all the initiatives, what the Minister rightly calls the planning of economic policy. That's what the Finance Act is. And there, like everything that we're going to spend the money on next year, it would be really relevant to have this systematic overview where you can say: this thing goes up so much, and this goes down so much, on these and these parameters. It is also true that we have asked the Minister and that the Minister has replied in relation to the Finance Act. However, we are also told that it is not considered possible to draw up an inventory or inventory of the derived effects of the Finance Act on greenhouse gas emissions. So that's a partial answer you get. And what I want to ask is: what is really missing so that we can do the big systematic overview every year?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101143	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101144	I think you can make it. Well, I actually think we're doing it, too, but we're just doing it at different times than when we're presenting the Finance Act. We made it, among other things. with the agreement that was made to continue working on the green national accounts. That's where you get an overview. We get it done when we focus on: What does the effort we make in Denmark mean in relation to the climate and greenhouse gas emissions? So I actually think that today we have the tools to assess our efforts, including the balance between economic policy and climate policy. As far as I am concerned, it is essential to get to where it is not a balance on either-or, but both-and-and, and where we make economic policy go hand in hand with green policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101225	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101227	But then it actually sounds like we have the information we need and that in reality you could just put it together here once a year and say: that bill has the consequences, and that proposal has the consequences, and this pile of money has it and the consequences. And then you could sort of drag it all into one inventory. I'd think that was amazing, and that's what we're looking for here. I'd like to take an example. As far as the agricultural package is concerned, with which the government has worked a great deal, many researchers have said: we expect negative consequences. We can see them now. If these assessments had been taken seriously in advance, it could have been said in advance that this is supposed to have a serious negative impact on the environment, perhaps we should adjust those proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101312	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101314	When you look at a Finance Act, it is such that it is a very long-term work. In fact, in these days we are going to start preparing next year's Finance Act. And when a Finance Act goes into print, it will actually happen before the end of June, although it will not be presented until the end of August. And that means that in the financial laws that I remember in the 20 or so years I have been a member of the Folketing, some pools have always been set aside which are subsequently implemented. This means that, for example, when presenting the financial bill for 2019, a green billion was set aside, but it did not say what it was meant for. And that is why it is impossible to assess what the effect is of a billion which has not been put into practice, whereas, when it is put into practice, it is then possible to make the concrete presentation of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101404	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101407	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say about the green national accounts that it was a project which ran from 2015 to 2017 and for which Denmark's Statistics had received a grant from the previous centre-left government. The government actually slowed that down because it didn't want any more money to be allocated to it. Some outside the government have made it possible to continue working on it. So I think it's a little crazy that the Minister of Finance is taking it up as something the government is focusing on. But I really would rather talk a little overarching about this artificial division, I think, between our natural base and our economy. The Minister for Finance is talking about coherence, but the Greek word for economy, as the Minister for Finance also mentioned, is the management of our household. And what is the basis for our household? It does very much make natural resources. Of course, it is obvious that our fisheries and agriculture in Denmark have a major impact on our economy, but of course also some of our largest industrial companies, which depend on minerals and elements etc. etc. So I can't understand this kind of artificial division that the Minister is making that our economy isn't entirely related to our nature base and is totally dependent on how our nature and the environment are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101535	So, quite factually, the funding for the green national accounts for 2019 and 2020 is set aside in an agreement between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. I fully acknowledge, and have never concealed, that the idea of green national accounts started before the government took office. However, when money is set aside for it in 2019 and 2020, the funds are set aside by the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. As far as the economy is concerned, I believe that there should be an assessment of economic policy and environmental policy. But as I mentioned to, for example. Mr. Christian Poll, when presenting the Finance Act, there are put aside pools that are not concrete. And that is why it is not possible, in the presentation of the Finance Act, to give a comprehensive description of the consequences this will have. Because it depends on how to translate the pools there are, among other things. the green billion, which was in the draft budget for 2019 and which has subsequently been translated into a large number of initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101634	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101636	You can say that about a lot of things. We also have documents in the Financial Committee. There are all kinds of things that are constantly changing. This does not mean that there is no overall management of the economy. There are reports that are being presented, consequences for the room, etc. etc. So I cannot understand why the fact that there may be some pools that are being implemented and some things that change should do that you cannot make green budgeting. This is something that the United Nations expects from us. Now we're just coming from a conference on world goals. These things are completely linked, so we can just see how things are connected, how our economy and our natural base, environment and climate are being affected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101723	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101725	I have such a feeling that some are really looking to find a disagreement here. Because if we move a little away from the concrete, that is to say budgeting must be exactly in conjunction with the budget law, and move on to the principle, namely that there is an assessment of economic policy in relation to the environment, then I cannot actually find any disagreement. I cannot find any disagreement with the fact that when we make economic policy, it must also be considered what consequences it will have for the environment. The question is whether there should be a green budget for the presentation of the Finance Act. I can only see some practical problems with that, and that is why the government does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101802	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. And then we start with the rapporteur's line. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222101812	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for raising this debate in the light of the climate crisis we are facing. With the profound transformation of our society, which we need to make in a way that also needs to have both ecological and social balances, it is extremely important that we are better at integrating the resource economy, we could say, our features on nature's resources, and our development, by the way. In order to support what we have committed ourselves to under the auspices of the United Nations, where all the countries of the world have joined together on the global goals, to which we have also said in Denmark that we will of course deliver our share, I think that, in this way, increased green budgeting, green national accounts, some models that can deal with what our political decisions mean for the development of CO2 We had it in this way already under the previous government, i.e. back to the SR government. In the late nineties, a green assessment of the Finance Act was actually started. It was then removed by the VK government in 2002, but we have had the incentives to do so. The Minister for Finance says that we should look for the differences here, and the Minister for Finance said in his speech that having a healthy economy is the basis for affording to do something about the green. There I think we may differ a little, because we believe that both are the foundation or the prerequisite for each other. Because if you make overdrafts in the green account, you do not have a healthy economy in the long term, which is why it is just as devastating that it goes the other way. I think that is perhaps what the alternative and other parties in today's debate would like to stress to the Ministry of Finance, and the quite justified important work involved in keeping, if you may say so, house with the state's finances, one cannot just separate from whether there is a overdraft in another account. Well, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister of Finance is now saying that we will be involved in the work that is going on in the OECD. I understand that this has not necessarily been so obscene from the outset, or how the answers given to the Committee on Finance should now be interpreted, but I think at least like that, Mr President. Christian Poll said that it is very, very important to be involved in international work not only because it is important for Denmark and for all the countries of the world that we get better control of what our policy means to ecology, if you like, for ecosystems, but also because we in Denmark thanks to a very clever measurement work and Danmarks Statistik and such things actually have quite good data. So I would venture to claim that Denmark could be a very useful case, a very useful example of how to actually get some of these things going. So I would like to say at the end that I think that when you discuss this, it is very important both to develop a method to keep track of what the status is, that is, what the account says not only the financial but also the environmental account; you could call it the accounts, but also that we get better at when we make 2025 plans or 2030 plans to say: What are the consequences for CO2 What are our expectations of what it means in a few years' time? This is, in fact, the design to which the Carlsberg Foundation and others have also contributed, and as Peter Birch Sørensen, the professor, sits and works with, namely to determine what the accounts really are right now, but also what the offer of how the accounts will look like in a few years' time, is actually if we do what we are discussing today. Against this background, I believe that there is much to be done here. I think we should discuss in committee what timetable can be set for how to attack this. In the Social Democratic Party, we have no doubt that green budgeting will play an increasingly important role in the future and we would like it to be more integrated into our annual financial law process, but also, in general, in our discussion of the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102300	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102303	Thank you. I was really glad to hear that. What I am just thinking of asking the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur think that the way for Denmark will be to go into the work of the OECD and follow what is happening there and, like that, just get involved in it? Or should we follow the work and then by the way try to be at the front and see how quickly we in Denmark can actually do this here, among other things. because we have tried it on the initiative of Svend Auken in the past and have some good experiences about which data to use and where there may be some pitfalls? In fact, I think we can do this today in a very targeted way. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102353	I think it is also possible to go some way, if I may say so, to tackle what we could do in the past and what we have done in the past. I also think, regardless of the fact that it was quite visionary and very good at the end of the 1990s, that what we need today has also come a bit further and is a bit more sophisticated, if you like, on the green models. That's why I really don't think it's a either-or. It is not because we have to sit here at Slotsholmen and wait for the OECD to finish. I think that the work being done under the auspices of the University of Copenhagen, with the support of the Carlsberg Foundation and the things I mentioned, is a foundation. Of course, we must try to draw this into our discussion in the Ministry of Finance and elsewhere, so that it becomes an integral part of our political discussion. I believe, if I may be quite honest, that we are not necessarily ready to do all the model calculations at this stage, but that does not prevent us from sitting down and talking about what the realistic timescale really is. If it is not this Finance Act, what is a realistic opportunity to gain better knowledge? Of course, we can go back to what we did at the end of the 1990s, but I think we need something even more developed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102506	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102508	I think that's right. I also think we have so many more data today and much higher data quality that we will actually be able to do it quite quickly in this context. So I hear that the answer from the Social Democrats is that we have to keep up with OECD work, but also give it a shell in Denmark and see how far we can get as quickly as possible. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102536	Yes, perhaps with the tightening up that I do not think we should just keep up with OECD work. I think we should engage in OECD work and use the Danish data we have, the expertise we have, to qualify for OECD work. So we must have a very active participation in the developments that are important to us, but at the same time also say that this is not just taking place under the auspices of the OECD. We also have something at home which is interesting to build on even before the OECD is completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102601	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102604	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think it was quite interesting, because the Minister for Finance is right to say that the Finance Act is about us having a sustainable and good economy in Denmark and that it gives room for various political agendas and, of course, also the green agenda. Then we are told by the Social Democrats: no, that is not quite the way it is, because the economy does not have to be the most important thing. We do agree that when you look at the environmental impact, it is transport that needs to be dealt with. So you could just ask, what would a gallon of fuel cost? What's a gallon of gas gonna cost you? What will a litre of diesel fuel cost in the future? That's one way to do it. If you don't care about the economy, a gallon of gasoline or a gallon of diesel could just cost 25 kroner. Then there'd be fewer people driving. Are these proposals that will come from the Social Democratic Party when the economy is, in such a way, secondary and is not what matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102650	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102652	Sir. René Christensen is very sorry, but frankly, I think this is a bit of a strawman. I didn't say the economy was secondary. I have said that if it is to be sustainable in the long term, both things need to be taken seriously. And no, we are not actually proposing higher fuel prices, and one of the reasons why we are not doing so is that there is also a concern for the economy. What I was arrested was that one can say that the prerequisite for us to do something about our green conversion is that we have a surplus in the box and that all we have to look at is the economy and then see if there is money to do something about the green conversion. I am just saying that if we do not take seriously the resource constraints and the climate constraints that exist, then it will also be an obstacle to our economy, which will then in the long term hamper our economic development, and that is what we need to link together. But no, we are not proposing higher fuel prices, although this would certainly lead to a slowing down in transport. We are proposing some other things which will make it possible to get away from work without destroying the climate. However, it is perhaps worthy of another discussion, whether it be biofuels or electric cars, or how we can ensure a more sustainable transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102806	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102807	The great thing about being able to have a dialogue down here in the Chamber is that you get answers to your questions, and I am very happy about the answer. For the other way would probably be equally dangerous enough in relation to it, and I am also glad that the Social Democrats recognise that there is a need to have a healthy and strong economy, both in order to move towards the green agenda and in relation to all sorts of other agendas. There is no doubt that we find the debate on this proposal interesting. But I'm gonna have to challenge something anyway. We need to have a strong economy. Now this proposal is acting, among other things. on what we should look at in the Finance Act, and there is no doubt, of course, that we should also know what decisions we are making and what the consequences of them are, including for the green agenda. But I was actually just happy with the answer that came, because I heard it somewhat differently in relation to the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102853	Thank you. Is there any comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102856	It is always a good thing if what one repeats as one thought one had said gives more clarity than one had been given the first time. I think we need to look at this as two essential things we need to deal with, and that is why I think it is wise to look at what it has to do with the green environment when you plan your economy. That, in all modesty, was what I was trying to say. But it goes without saying that we still want growth. We still want to see a healthy economy, and we can then do more or less intelligently, and if we do so with regard to the green, it will be for me to see and, in the long term, a much more gifted way of developing our growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102935	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222102938	Thank you. I remember that seven years ago the rapporteur and I attended a climate summit in Rio, and there were a large number of our ministers with us at that time. In fact, several of our ministers at that time created such international attention because it was said that Denmark would introduce a green brink and work with green ratios, and at the same time it gave 10 million. kr. to the World Bank for research into this and also undertook to incorporate it. I just have to say that it is a pity that things have to take so long and that we are standing here seven years later and then still discussing whether it is the right way to go after the World Bank says that this is the right way to go after the United Nations says that it is the right way to go after we commit ourselves to the world goals, after the OECD, which is therefore no socialist organisation, says that this is the way to go, and has projects such as this. The name Beyond GDP is because you cannot just look at bnp and the way we do accounts today, as we have done in the past. Therefore, my simple question to the rapporteur is just 1) Will the Social Democratic Party support the alternative proposal here? 2) What will happen in this area when we hope to have a new government soon?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103101	The last thing first: it is really my hope and the ambition of social democracy that what you could call green budgeting, green national accounts, a better way of projecting, that is to say predict what the consequences are for CO2 That is also why we are discussing how we can make commitments in the climate area, so that we keep following up on whether we are on the right track. So social democracy has no problem with us measuring this more. We have no problem with each other sticking to the fact that we have to do this, and that is why I am calling for us to discuss it in committee. We are not sure whether we can achieve the objective of the Finance Act, which, strictly speaking, I believe is already being drafted in the Ministry of Finance. But the fact that we have to do this over the coming years is indisputable, and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is also right in saying that we took some important steps last time we were in government. Yes, some of it has been delayed by the fact that some people did not extend the allocation and shut it down, and now, thankfully, there are also private people who have contributed to it. I have also been visiting the OECD since then, which tells us very clearly...
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103221	Speaking time is pretty much exceeded. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103226	I didn't really have a follow-up question. I just wanted to hear what the rapporteur wanted to end with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103246	I will then have the opportunity to conclude on that. I agree that there is no longer any discussion here for people who are extraordinarily concerned about the green. After all, this is a discussion for all those who regard the balances of the world economy as central, and a discussion on how we can ensure that there is also room for the many more people who come on earth in a way that does not destroy it for future generations. So it's absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103257	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103305	Thank you for that, President. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B-65 on green budgeting, I would like to say that, as a starting point, this is an appealing proposal, that is to say, to know what the consequences are when we make some political decisions. We are talking about this in all areas, and this is, of course, also important in terms of climate and the environment. The fact that we see this as a bit of a challenge is not only because it is in the context of the Finance Act, but also because it is a question of whether we have the measuring tools that need to be used. The question is, what should this resolution be used for, i.e. whether it should be a lever for something else? Not long ago, we were discussing charges on electric cars, and everyone agreed that electric cars should now be exempt from duty, because that was good for the environment. That is also true, because it is very good for the local environment, but is it also good for the climate? You can't say that all electric cars are the same. There is a big difference between buying an American-produced electric car that may be made on shale gas or oil, or buying a French-produced electric car that is made on energy, which is CO2 Yet in Denmark we have said that all electric cars are equally good, all electric cars must have the same tax. That's what's interesting. I believe, as several people have said here, that we need to work much more at EU level, OECD level to have climate labelling, because then we can go in and see what decisions we are making and what consequences they have, both as a politician, but indeed as a consumer. As a politician and consumer, we should have that both on the electric car and those tools, unfortunately, we do not have that today. I think that the negotiations on electric cars were a very good example of not taking this into account. That is why we find it difficult to implement it in the year 2020. However, we are in complete agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that this must be the objective forward-looking, so that we can all take the decisions we want with open eyes, also in relation to the environment and climate. But then it should not be because we think it is best, or because we think it is best, it should be because we can document what decision we have taken and we do not think we are today. I would say that I am very much concerned with what the Minister of Finance also said, namely that in many areas, after all, we are making these measurements and also with some success, but going to do so in the context of the Finance Act would simply not be honest enough. It is also said, namely that you put a billion of it, is that billion so green, or is it not green? One might say that it is a green billion, but will it end up being green if one uses it to reduce the tax on electric cars, for example, when the electric cars that are then sold are electric cars, which may in the future come from China, where they are produced on coal? No, it suddenly ends up not being a green billion, even though it was described as that in the context of the Finance Act. So we would like to use this resolution to write on it, if possible, in order to make some agreements on how to work towards this. We must put pressure on the current government and on future governments to have some kind of climate and eco-labelling, but on all products, from the tomato to the electric car. So we welcome it and would like to take a political debate on it, also in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103623	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103626	I think that was a very positive statement, because what I hear is that the Danish People's Party actually wants transparency here, that is, that we get data on the table and that we collect thorough data. The history of electric cars is very relevant, because it is the case that you can actually document the climate load and environmental impact in general for the production of electric cars, as long as you dive into where they are produced, how they are produced and such. After all, there are life cycle assessment methods to figure that out. So what I'm hearing is that the Danish People's Party actually wants there to be a climate statement, and that's one of the things the government has in its climate project, and I recently heard from Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that it's a climate statement you're thinking about, and I think that's a good basis for this work. But why not just include it in the financial law work all the way from the start, since, as the Minister of Finance also pointed out, we are so far in relation to legislative proposals and various initiatives? Can't you just integrate it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103738	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103739	There is no doubt that I believe that in the future it will be possible to do so in the context of sub-elements of a financial law, but a financial law is also often about pools, i.e. that a pool will be set up which will then be implemented later. Sometimes pools are set aside for political negotiations, sometimes pools are set aside to do something in the municipalities, in health care and other things. That is why it will simply be a distorted picture that one will draw from it. That is not to say that this agenda is not right, because the agenda is to be able to know what the consequences of our political decisions are. But I just think that this agenda goes a little further than the Parliamentary Chamber in Denmark. At least there is an opportunity at EU level; it also extends to the world, and there is a good place for the OECD to start. In other words, we need to set this agenda and, of course, as a Parliament, we have an opportunity to instruct every government to continue working on it, that is to say on how we get this idea of a climate declaration to spread, so that we do not have to go out and find out what each car looks like, because it has been declared as a product already when we choose to buy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103843	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103845	I'm thinking that this pool thing is a more general discussion. It is true that in the Finance Act there are a lot of fixed things, concrete measures that have been agreed, and these are the ones that I think we can count on. It is, at least as I remember it, by far the largest part of the budget of the Finance Act that can be put into that category. So it's true that there are some pools, and there you could just say that it's a joker we're just waiting to make a final assessment of. But is it not the case that, with regard to the vast majority of money in the Finance Act, it will be possible to say that it is being implemented in a specific activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222103924	A fairly large part of the financial law agreement is among other things. the economy of the municipalities too, and it has to be said that the municipalities are very different, in terms of how they manage their economy, how they use the block grants they receive. Some municipalities are very green and work with it; some municipalities work with some other agendas. And that will be difficult, because there we have local democracy and they can choose to say how they will use the bag of money that they get in connection with the Finance Act. That does not mean that the proposal as such is utopia. There are just a lot of challenges if you're going to do that, and you have to be careful that the green agenda is an important agenda, because it doesn't just become such a battleground where you fight for who's greener and who's less green, so it's going to be a discussion about it. Instead, it must be a discussion about how to use our resources in the best possible way, of course also in terms of nature, environment and climate. There is perhaps just not exactly the right place for the budget, but that is not to say that the debate is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104020	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104023	Thank you. I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the rapporteur, whom I normally find extremely objective about these things. But we're looking for straw to try and avoid taking a stand on this proposal and on this agenda. It is pointed out that sometime in the future we may be able to do something. Well, this isn't just a discussion in Denmark, it's a discussion around the world. Reference is made to the OECD. Yes, the OECD is asking us to use the opportunities that exist. They're making different models themselves. I simply think that you are pushing something that is not time to push into the future by saying that you will not be involved in this. 'Cause that's what I'd like to say about the pool business, 'cause we don't stop counting on the economy 'cause we have pools that we don't really know where we're gonna end up. So that's just a bad excuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104125	That is simply not true. We can't do this. Then I would like to ask why SF is in a deal that says that all electric cars are equally green and equally good for the climate. That's factually wrong. They're not. There should of course be a differentiated tax compared to where the electric car is produced. There should be a differentiated tax on whether you buy an electric car using 30 kW or one using 60 kW. There should be. But it was because we could not find out in the negotiations. We couldn't tell you exactly what model of a car has which climate pattern. So it's not true that this is just dragging the information into a machine, and then we can explain it. We think it is right to look at the green as well, but there is just a difference between the environment and climate. We can do something in relation to the local environment, but it is the climate that is interesting. And that is why, if we are to do this, and we would like to do it on an enlightened basis, and it must be on a basis where we can have a proper discussion. And I would just like to say that where we stand today, we will not be able to do so in the context of the Finance Act there we can do it in the context of partial agreements and other legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104229	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104231	Sir. René Christensen speaks of economics, as if it is such a completely objective science in line with gravity. In other words, dynamic effects are being calculated, which are being addressed a little, scenarios are being created, which are being addressed afterwards, and we are looking at the economic consequences of tax reform or employment reform. Then it never quite fits sometimes it doesn't fit at all and then you straighten it out. Well, I really just think it's bad excuses waiting in line for not doing this. It may well be that you do not hit completely, but of course you already have a lot of knowledge that you can build on today. As Mr. Christian Poll also said, there are life cycle analyses; there are assessments of the situation, if you switched the entire petrol fleet to electric cars • which span it will then be in with discharges etc. Well, I only think it's because you don't want to. You don't even want to admit that you don't want to. And then the rapporteur tries to find some reasons why you do not want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104339	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104341	This is a rather exciting discussion, because compared to the questioner saying that we will not, I would ask whether SF cares whether a battery in an electric car is produced on coal in China or whether it is produced at 100 per cent. CO 2 Does it really matter what battery is in that electric car? It's not. It is of course very important what it is for a battery that sits in that car. Because otherwise we think we're doing something good for the climate. But in reality, we have helped to increase emissions because it is made on coal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104417	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104419	Thank you. I wasn't really gonna go in the meat on Mr. Knox. René Christensen. But partly I heard Mr. René Christensen this morning in P1 Morning say that the sustainability goals were something that belonged to the world and not really in Denmark, and Mr. René Christensen now saw from Parliament's platform that we should be careful that this debate is not about whether you are more or less green. I therefore agree that it should not be such a fight for the sake of the fight itself. But if there is something it is about, it is in fact whether Denmark becomes more or less green, and where more or less green every single party in this Parliament wants to make Denmark. I'm a little worried about that. I have otherwise walked and rejoiced that the Danish People's Party, perhaps as the last party in the Danish Parliament, has so really joined the climate struggle and the sustainability struggle. But I am so interested in perhaps testing a little, whether it's just something you say, because everyone can now see that the people are really starting to worry about the same thing that is in other words voting in it or it's something that goes deeper than that in the Danish People's Party. There I get a little worried if you are not ready to be a little bit more committed to doing something more than we have done so far, both when it comes to measuring, but also to doing something for the green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104536	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104539	The Danish People's Party would really like to be a part of that. But is it really about being green down at Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard, or is it about being green on the climate, that is, out in the world? The easiest thing in the world is to turn green down at Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard. We can be. After all, the climate agenda is not just about what is happening in Denmark. After all, the climate agenda is about what is happening in the world. Well, look, it's true that it means something where our products come from. I said, from the tomato to the electric car. That means something where that tomato comes from. What's this road that tomato's had? Has it come over from Funen, or has it come down from South Spain? Are we buying fruit that has flown in or fruit that has sailed in? That means something to the climate. But we must not have that discussion, because it is difficult. No, you talk to the citizens here, you talk to the voters, and you want to tell something that is easy to understand, so you want to tell them that an electric car is good, because you can see that when you look at it. It doesn't smell when you're looking at it. But what matters is the climate. The neighbourhood also means something, but we want to get to the big blade and say: When we're going to do this, and we want to be measured on it, we have to measure the whole cycle, also on the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104646	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104647	I think so, sir. René Christensen makes it very complicated. For me it is fairly simple: there is a direct link between what we choose to do in Denmark and what is happening in the rest of the world. Denmark, to take an example, is a single country, despite the fact that the Danish People's Party has fought against all the way • becoming a unique pioneer country on green energy. We have one country reduced the price of electricity from offshore winds by 60%. in 3 years by developing the technologies. In fact, we are making a great deal of money now, and that is welcome. We could do the same in Danish agriculture, as we could in transport. That's why the effort starts in Denmark, and then we have the opportunity to influence the rest of the world by developing technologies, practices, etc. That is why I think there is a very direct connection between the choices we make at home and what we can influence the world with. For, of course, I agree that the world is bigger than Denmark, and if we are to save the climate, it is certainly also out in the big world that it is happening. We just can't do much for the rest of the world if we don't start here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104747	I am glad that we are getting the praise we also deserve, because that is right. The Danish People's Party has been one of the few parties that has fought for wind turbines to stand at sea and that they should not be on land. That is absolutely right. We have struggled with it every time and said: Why on earth do they have to keep standing on land? That is probably one of the reasons why we have become the world's best at setting up offshore wind turbines at sea, and that is because some political choices have been made. I am glad that we too, together with others, have been involved in pushing that agenda and that we have now won that agenda. So yes, it also matters what choices you make in Denmark, and we are glad that we have now become the world leader in it: not so many wind turbines on land, now they have to stand out at sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104824	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222104831	Thank you. Unfortunately, since the rapporteur for the Left has no opportunity to be here in the Chamber today, I have promised to give the speech. As I said, we are discussing the alternative resolution on green budgeting in the Finance Act. And I really want to start by thanking the alternative for focusing on this area, because we in the Left also think it is really important that we are just talking about this green transition. However, when the alternative is actually passionate about, and has a great desire, that there should be an increased focus on the green areas in the context of the Finance Act, we have to say, unfortunately, that we on the Left do not support this. Because we believe that the elements that we already have in connection with the Finance Act, but also elsewhere, really give us a great deal of insight, and in fact we also believe that in this way we have an openness about what things look like. In fact, a number of professional assessments are already being carried out today on the impact of the measures on both the environment and nature. This includes, of course, as some of the previous rapporteurs have said, among other things. analyses from the Environmental Economic Council, the Climate Council, the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate and the Ministry of the Environment and Food; they also regularly and constantly provide information about these areas. So we actually believe that we have a solid professional basis for assessing the environmental consequences, including new legislation. I think it was the Minister who always mentioned it that we should be able to do something about it, among other things. The Finance Act can ask questions, and we know that a great many parties also use that. There, you always have the opportunity to ask if there are things you think you need more information about asking extra questions about these areas. So all in all, we actually believe that the government is already very well on the way to these things, and we believe that there is a high degree of transparency in relation to the environmental and climate consequences of new legislation. So, unfortunately, we will not be supporting the resolution. At the same time, I have promised to greet the Conservatives and say that neither do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105100	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105101	Thank you. It is a pity that I cannot find support here, but I did not expect that either. I know that we have a number of reports on legislative proposals, that we have some initiatives on green national accounts and a number of other things. That is why the simple question is: what are we really missing? Because you could just like take the sum of all the things and systematize it into a process of finance law. And isn't it right now, in these years, when we are in a very serious climate crisis and are actually in a very serious natural crisis, that it would be quite natural for us to take this systematic approach and say: every million in the budget law we have to assess what really means for the climate, nature, the environment, etc.? I have mentioned the agricultural package before, which contained a number of elements for which money should be allocated, and that scientists have actually been out to say that if you do that, you can expect this environmental impact and that if you do that, you can expect that environmental impact. There's actually quite a lot of...
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105211	I would ask that the speaking time be respected. It has actually been wildly exceeded through this debate every time, so I would ask that it be observed. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105220	Thank you. I'll try to answer it, even if Mr. Christian Poll didn't have time to finish. I can easily understand what the alternative is beginning to ask for, but I must also say that I actually think that with all the tools that we already have, we have transparency and that we are aware of these things, even when we are making legislation here at Christiansborg. So I may think it is a little unnecessary concern to have, but I clearly share the point made by the alternative that this is important. That is what we in the Left think it is, i.e. it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105300	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105302	I'll try to be brief enough. If it is clear what effects it has when we make a legislative proposal, then we could easily sum it up for all the legislative proposals contained in the Finance Act package. So I would just like to ask again: what is really missing in order to be able to put it all together in a systematic approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105323	Well, it is true, as the Minister for Finance also said, that we have a great deal of the information. That is actually what we are trying to stress: that we do not really think there is any reason for this concern. Nor do we think that it is appropriate for the Finance Act to start budgeting in this area as well. And that is actually why we reject this motion for a resolution as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105347	There are no more questions for the rapporteur, so that is why we are moving forward. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105406	After all, this proposal from the Alternative is about the Danish Parliament requiring the government to initiate initiatives so that, in the context of the submission of proposals to the Finance Act, we can assess the environmental consequences of the draft Finance Act. And what exactly this means is to assess the budget law and the impact of fiscal policy on the environment and climate and to see whether we are fulfilling national and international obligations. And this must then contribute to an evidence-based political debate on sustainable conversion. It is not that long ago that we had the financial bill debate, and it can be said that the Greens are not very full of that debate, although the whole discussion of our economic policy should take place within the framework of what is possible for our society in terms of climate, environmental and sustainability. That is, of course, the framework within which we need to discuss our economy, so to speak, and in this context it is wrong that the economic discussion we have is not taking place within the framework of how we meet our environmental obligations. On the part of the Enhedslisten, therefore, we can also say that we naturally support this motion for a resolution. We support all measures that demonstrate the environmental, natural and climate impact of the policy being pursued. And this is so specifically about the fact that, in the context of the discussion on the Finance Act, we systematically have this discussion in a good way. And we fully agree that this is necessary. It is also necessary to see the budget law within the framework that we are, of course, many parties who want and which is that we should introduce a climate law with binding targets for how much is to be reduced. And that means that if you want a Climate Act, and Enhedslisten does, for example, the most important economic discussion we have during the year, namely the Finance Act, should also be a discussion that we should introduce a Climate Act. And a climate law is very important to us. I went right back in the archives and I can see that the first time we tabled a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament on a Climate Act was B 135, and that was first dealt with on 6 April 2010. So it is a discussion that we have had a few years in here, but it is something where it may seem that something can really happen if a new majority comes to power after a forthcoming parliamentary elections. After all, the climate is extremely important in this context, and I will not fail to point out that last week, on Wednesday 13 February, on the Enhedslisten side, we presented a climate plan which precisely describes how we think Denmark should deliver its contribution to the fight against climate change. It is a fully funded plan, it is a plan that is socially fair and it is a plan that shows that there is indeed red climate policy and that there is blue climate policy. For climate policy can be led antisocially and mischievously, where the whole bill is sent to those who have the least. But climate policy can also be made socially fair, where the price of the green transition is not sent to those who have the least in our society. And our climate plan is exactly a bid for it with some very concrete instruments, fully funded, socially fair. We are very proud of it, because it is actually our impression that nowhere in Europe has any party been able to deliver such a plan, even in the Danish Parliament until now, until Enhedslisten, who can deliver on all three pillars here. So we are very proud of that and we hope that it can inspire other parties both in Denmark and the rest of Europe. It is certainly a plan that, in the context of the dialogue we have with parties around Europe, similar to the Enhedslisten, we will help to spread there for inspiration, so that we can also get the climate debate going in other European countries along that path; a debate which is, of course, already under way. But, of course, we support this motion for a resolution. If it were to end up not having another reading but instead becoming a story, then it could be a fine way of doing it. Perhaps in a report one could, for example. dive a little further into the detail. Could the parties in the opposition, for example, be able to do so? If we were to agree on something, we would actually have a basis on which we could pick up. And if we then hopefully again get a new majority after a forthcoming parliamentary elections, there is, of course, a start to get started on some discussions soon after the elections. And if we were to find ourselves in a situation where we get a new majority after a forthcoming parliamentary election, it could be that the Conservative People's Party could join the car after an election when they are no longer part of the government. So there are some options there that we can at least look at. But if this is the second reading, we will of course vote in favour of this excellent alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105937	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222105940	Now the rapporteur has just mentioned the issue of climate action and that there may not be any other party in Europe presenting something similar. And I just want to say that we have done so. In our climate plan we have just not linked it directly to our social policy, but if you take social policy together with climate policy, we are at the same level. But what I really wanted to hear from the rapporteur is the OECD process, which this is also about. After all, the Minister has said that we in Denmark would like to go into it, and that is a good thing. Does Enhedslisten see that this is the way we have to go to push it? Or should we just do it in Denmark? What is the interaction between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110032	So, the OECD is a very central player. We also see it in the field of taxation, that is, the whole way that, for example, is done. they're gonna shut down tax holes. It is the OECD which is driving and which provides standards which, as such, apply at global level and which become standard-setting. In the EU it will become EU directives, which will then be implemented in Danish legislation. So when we see, for example... in the area of taxation, in relation to closing tax gaps and preventing tax evasion from multinational groups which pay, for example. The OECD is a very, very central player, and we also see that the OECD is here. So it is clearly a work that needs to be supported. We're not afraid to go in front of this house and show the way. We feel that this is something we can certainly do. With regard to our climate plan, I have to say that we have presented a plan, not just with objectives, but with very concrete measures. We have created CO2 We have found the precise funding and, in relation to the concrete instruments, we have ensured that it is implemented, it is socially balanced with the measures set out in the plan. No one else has been able to achieve this so far with a single plan that will solve that task and in which all three legs are integrated into one plan that could be implemented tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110155	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110213	Thank you, President. On the other hand, we cannot support this motion for a resolution. It is not, of course, a proposal that helps to reduce CO2 emissions, and we do not support it either, because we already have countless opportunities to draw on professional expertise in assessing the climate and environmental impact of the laws we adopt. And that also applies to the Finance Act. I can mention the Climate Council, the Green National Accounts, the Climate Policy Statement, the base projection of greenhouse gas emissions and the many reports by the Ministry of the Environment and Food on the state of the environment in Denmark. So I do not really see that it would benefit us to spend more time and resources knowing what we already know through the tools and reports I have just mentioned. Instead, we should, of course, spend our resources and time discussing how to resolve the climate challenges that certainly exist in a cost-effective way, because that is the only way we can achieve a solution to the challenges. So, as I said, we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110328	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110333	I had also expected this to be the position, but I think that the Liberal Alliance is usually happy to have some transparency in relation to the externalities, that is, the social influences that exist when we conduct politics. After all, what we are asking here is that, with a systematic approach, we simply review everything that lies in the Finance Act and present it, so that we have transparency that shows what the environmental impact, climate impact, etc. is. So I am a little surprised that the rapporteur has this position. One example might be that we have heard from researchers that if we were to set aside 70,000 hectares of forest, we would actually be able to turn the decline in biodiversity to a rise, and the government has then gone out with 0.4 per cent. more nature. There you could simply get a figure on how much of the problem it solves in that context. Isn't that the kind of thing we want?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110440	What we think is important is that we set ourselves targets for what we want to achieve, for example. With regard to CO2 reduction, this type of information and knowledge is extremely important, and we think that too little attention is being paid to it. We think there's too much populism in this climate debate. So what is important is that we set ourselves some goals and then we find out with the help of the many skilled experts who are how we reach them cheapest, because otherwise we will not reach them because there are other considerations we need to take and we have the tools to do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110541	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110544	After all, I am very much in favour of the cost-effective approach, and it is precisely when you have transparency that you know that if we fold 0.4 per cent. more nature out in Denmark, we will have such a small effect, but if we unfolded so much more nature, we would have this great effect. So if we document it every year in the context of the Finance Act, we will be able to say that this initiative will be cost-effective, and that is what we are doing, while what has far too much negative consequences, so it is not worth going that way. That is exactly what we want with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110625	But we are not so far apart, because I share the whole intention of saying that we have objectives and how we achieve them in a cost-effective way. That is what I am calling for here. It just doesn't have much to do with the Finance Act. The Finance Act is one law, that's the big law. One of the options we have for spending money is the Finance Act, otherwise it is the acts of the Finance Committee. However, the Finance Act is also being assessed; the initiatives taken by the Finance Act can also be assessed, and so are they today. That's why I don't really see that this is going to move so much, and that's why we don't think we should spend resources on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110711	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110717	Thank you. I cannot help but take the opportunity to stick a finger in the ground as to how far the Liberal Alliance has come in their climate policy. After all, there has been a rapid development in the Liberal Alliance's approach to climate change. Originally, it was not thought at all that there was a man-made problem, etc., but fortunately, and I sincerely welcome this, we have come up with a little. The new energy agreement has also been incorporated, etc. Does the rapporteur think this is quite basically, and does the Liberal Alliance believe that it is an advantage for Denmark to take the lead in climate change, both in terms of climate change, because it can infect other countries and create new technology development, but also for Denmark and for the Danish economy, so that it is an objective that Denmark takes the lead in climate change? Is that the policy of the Liberal Alliance today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110808	It is not true that we have meant that people do not affect the climate. That is simply not true, so it is not true that we have said that there is no challenge. We believe that there is a challenge. There are plenty of challenges in the world, and there will probably always be. This is one of them, and we have to solve this rationally. I believe that the biggest challenge here is that it requires international agreements, because we cannot solve it in Denmark. I think we're gonna emit almost 0.1%. of the world's CO2 And there we are of course a player. What we need to work for is international solutions, for example. to make the EU's quota system work. That's the kind of thing that moves. But we are not among those who are trying to convince people that if we just spend billions and billions of dollars on reducing CO2 it is international agreements that have to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110915	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110919	Does the Liberal Alliance recognise that the strategic effort made by Denmark over two decades on wind turbine technology, which the Liberal Alliance has fought hard all the way through, that the technology improvement and price reduction that means that Denmark today has a market price on electricity, including support that is far below the average in the EU, has helped to influence global markets, i.e. that when offshore wind turbines reach 60%. cheaper in 3 years, which Denmark as the only country has achieved, does it actually affect the European and global markets, and that Denmark has actually played a certain role internationally and can be proud of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222110959	Of course it affects the market, but it is not the same as that it was the smartest thing to do, i.e. that you could not have dealt with it more wisely from the start. You could. It will be far more expensive than expected. I think it was going to cost 20 billion more than had been budgeted and expected to cost. The wisest thing would have been to have been technology neutral from the outset, not to have invested in technology, to have said that a tax was imposed on emissions, to tax what one wanted less of, and then to let the market come up with solutions. That would have been the smartest thing from the start. If we had, it would have been an even greater success. Then we'd really have shown how to solve this. A huge success I don't think it has been. We could have done better than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111053	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111107	I would also like to thank the Alternative for giving us the opportunity to discuss this matter again, one might say. It has been up in various forms, all the way back from the current government, decided to droll down our documentation of the green bnp and the green national accounts that several people have mentioned. We also regard it as crucial that we have better tools to be able to see on an ongoing basis the impact of the economic decisions we make on our environment and our climate. This is not a simple matter. I agree with the Minister for Finance on this point, but all the more reason to tighten ourselves in front of a car that says that we will be better at it. That is why I can actually be very brief and lean on several of the other positive rapporteurs. In other words, we could vote in favour of the resolution as it stands. But I think it might be wiser and more fertilizing with a story. Because I really hear more parties, including the Minister of Finance himself, saying that they support the intentions and that it would be interesting to be sharper on this. So it could be that you could make a report that precisely nailed the possibilities and a process to get better at this. Because it could survive over a parliamentary election, and then you could effect it, if you may say so. So that would be my call. In any case, we would very much like to contribute to a report which takes into account both the professional challenges that are of course trying to focus where it is that we can get started relatively quickly and then put a process into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111254	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111308	I would like to thank the alternative for their proposals and, indeed, had hoped that Mr. Christian Poll could have a birthday present today, namely that there was support in the Chamber for this motion for a resolution. It does not look like it, but I have noticed that when the various rapporteurs and the Finance Minister have presented it and we have had the discussion, everyone says that we are not far apart, and then it is surprising that we cannot find a common way forward. Because where I think we may disagree is precisely the perception of this clear separation between the economy and nature and the environment, and the call for the economy to be in order, so we can afford to do something for the green transition, and that is a completely artificial division. Because if we weaken our aquatic environment, our marine environment, our nature, we will, of course, clearly reduce the economy for farmers and for fisheries. Conversely, if we cannot find enough lime and clay, then there are no resources to produce cement, as is done in Aalborg Portland. A large number of our very, very large industrial companies are totally dependent on being able to provide the natural resources needed to produce what they make money on, which delivers tax revenue to Denmark and which helps to finance our welfare. So these things are inextricably linked, and that is why I am very much in agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Jens Joel, who said that one is the prerequisite for the other. It is an incredibly short-term and rather artificial way of looking at the economy, i.e. as decoupled from the rest of the world, from our society, from our natural basis, and that is why we must of course also look at what the state's household budget, our financial law, has implications for our environment, our nature and our climate. It's self-evident. There may well be areas where more people have been talking about it, where you cannot say it exactly. There may be some pools that are not translated, there may be something that changes along the way. However, it is precisely the same uncertainties that may exist in the rest of our economy, the rest of our financial policy. There are pools that are not exhausted, there are uses for something else, there are records in the Finance Committee to ensure that there is a legal basis for spending some unforeseen expenditure, and that is how the economic picture changes continuously and throughout the year. After all, it is not because we say that we cannot say anything about what this financial law has to do with our room for manoeuvre or our economy, because there are some small areas where it may be uncertain whether things change. That's what you keep adjusting. I think, unfortunately, that we are very much behind in Denmark, because this is something that is being discussed in the United Nations, in the OECD, in the European Union. In a large number of countries it is said: how can we get a clearer picture of how our economic policy affects what we are fundamentally dependent on, namely our natural environment? That is why I think it is a pity that it is rejected on the grounds that we have an Environmental Economic Council and that we have one and the other. This is absolutely crucial to moving on. I hope that the things we have heard today, including from the Social Democratic Party, show that there is a green alternative, especially after an election, as we know, because we have agreed that this will have a binding climate law that wants green ratios to be as important as economic ratios, because it is the prerequisite for each other, who wants a green super-ministerium, or how we are now organised, which has the same weight as the weight we know in the Ministry of Finance today. It is a bit funny that you cannot negotiate an environmental agreement or a public school agreement without someone from the Ministry of Finance sitting there to keep an eye on the fact that the trade minister does not spend some money that has not been agreed. It's a little funny if you want to have this kind of governance, that you don't have one from a green ministry in the same way saying: this agreement cannot be concluded under these conditions because it simply reduces the green transition too much. SF is backing this up. It is also something that needs to be done at different stages, because we must constantly develop new tools, but that is not an excuse for not getting started. Assessments in the Ministry of Finance are also constantly being changed, how to calculate, what effects it has, and we need to get away from just talking about economic room for manoeuvre. Our room for manoeuvre is the limits that our natural world also places on how we can conduct policy. So the SF supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111841	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no comments. And the Conservatives are covered by the Left, so we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222111858	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. The green transition has come high on the political agenda and I am delighted to see that going into my green heart. But in the alternative, we would like to see more action behind the many green expressions. In order to succeed in a rapid green transition, it is necessary to think resource consumption into all parts of society and everything we do, including here at Christiansborg, not least when it comes to the economy. There is a need for a paradigm shift in the economy, where we think about the environment and the economy together. We must create an economy in balance, not an economy in competition with nature, the environment and the climate. A perfectly natural first step is, in our view, a green budgeting. The environment and climate must be considered into the financial law process, fully integrated, and, together with the draft Finance Act, a green budget must be presented which will enable the environmental impact of the draft Finance Act to be assessed. When we received the draft Finance Act for 2019, we immediately sent questions to the Minister for Finance about the impact of the proposal on climate gas emissions. This is absolutely crucial to whether it is a proposal that we can support. This year we received an answer on the same morning as the Finance Act was to be dealt with thirdly, and here the Minister gave a superficial suggestion of those things that obviously have a climate effect, such as: to abolish speed limits for trucks and the relaxation of the electric heating charge for holiday homes. However, the Minister began by writing in his reply and I quote: "It is not considered possible to draw up an inventory or inventory of the derived effects of the Finance Act on greenhouse gas emissions. In view of the fact that the green transition is the crucial task of our time, it is incomprehensible to me that the law which prescribes how the state should use and levy taxes does not specify what the overall effect on the climate and the environment is. Environmental assessments of the financial bill were previously included as a fixed part of the material published in the submission of the proposal. The method used at the time was not optimal, but since then many experiences have been gained in other countries, for example. in Finland and Austria, as well as in the OECD, so there is a good basis for creating a new and far better green budget. The state's consumption is crucial for Denmark's total resource consumption, as the state, as you know, fills a lot in the total economy. Taxes are also essential, as they are an important tool for giving consumers the right incentives to consume environmentally soundly. So what do we get out of a green budget? Firstly, politicians and all other interested parties will have an opportunity to assess the impact of the financial bill on the climate and the environment. This is absolutely crucial for us in the Alternative, and it is essential for us to be able to support the Financial Bill. Secondly, a green budget must help us to assess whether there is a link between the draft budget and the green commitments. We often discuss here at Christiansborg whether we in Denmark live up to our commitments, and that brings me to the third reason: a green budget can support the political debate with figures and data material. This will contribute to a more evidence-based debate and a more constructive debate, which is not based equally on personal assessments. As I said, the drafting and drafting of a green budget should not necessarily be left alone. In the OECD there is work going on in a network where Denmark has been invited but was not in the first place. The Minister for Finance has stated today and previously that there will be Danish participation forward-looking, and I am very pleased about that. The Danish climate debate often hears that Denmark is a small country and therefore has very little influence on the global climate and environmental challenges. However, to take the lead in developing a concept of green budgeting, from which other countries can subsequently gain experience, will be an obvious field of action for Denmark. If Denmark is to be at the forefront in the green area, we need to think climate and environment into all the policy we are making and into the basic structures, not least economics and budgeting. So thank you again for a good debate. I can conclude that we do not have full support, a majority in favour of our proposal, but there is a general consensus that this is an important issue and that the work of the OECD is something of the way forward. I hope that we can go further and become more concrete in the work of the committee and can talk both about our work in the OECD and about national efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112405	Thank you. Since no one has asked for comments, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We need a minister, but I've seen the minister. Then we'll have to postpone the sitting for five minutes. No, the minister's coming. That's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112438	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112519	I would like to say briefly that the Socialists support the proposal. We ourselves have been involved in this agreement on the fgu and consider it very important that the board of directors that comes in the various places be set up decentralized and that it will be the municipalities that will be able to appoint the board members. I should also like to say this on behalf of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112545	Thank you. Then we move on, and this is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112551	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to be able to stand here again on the platform and talk about preparatory basic education or fucking, our amazing heart child, who is to start August 2019. As mentioned, this bill is about the fact that all the places in Denmark where there is a Fgu institution with a board of directors, the municipalities, which are therefore part of the Fgu institutions in question, must have a seat on the Fgu board in question. That's what this bill is all about. But there is also a temporary nature in this which goes to April 2022. There you can again consider whether to continue with this extension of the boards or whether to continue in another way. But in the Danish People's Party we think it is a very good idea. Then I would also like to say now that I have the floor that right now and here there are a lot of competent and professionally talented people working in the whole country to ensure that some really good schools can start up until August 2019. I wish them every success in this project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112710	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112717	Thank you. As has also been said, this is a small but, of course, important legislative proposal which we are now discussing in this Chamber. The bill is based on giving all the municipalities the opportunity to join these institutional boards now that the new fgu institutions are going to get started. As the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, it is a fantastic deal that we have made here, about these new fgu institutions, which are going to start here from August 2019, and fortunately we can feel that things are well under way out there. I would say that this is something that we on the Left are also following closely and with pleasure, because fortunately it became a broad political agreement, which we all agreed on, in other words the very thing about setting up these new preparatory training courses, perhaps more reform than so many people think. We have also agreed on this slight adjustment, so that the municipalities could also get a seat on these institutional boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112832	Thank you to the rapporteur. We're moving on, and that's sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112838	We think in the Enhedslisten, it is very important that we have the best possible framework in order to give the preparatory initial training a good start. I think it is important in this respect that we should be aware of the fact that we must oblige all the municipalities in the country to draw on this training to become the main route for the target groups to which the training is directed, and that is why I think it is very wise that the proposal here should provide a guarantee that all municipalities can sit at the table. So we believe that this is a sensible way of helping to commit the municipalities so that everyone draws along to give the preparatory initial training a very good start. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112924	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222112930	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, it is not possible to do a fourth reading of the original legislative proposal with several amendments, but then, fortunately, we can do a first reading of a new legislative proposal, and that is what we are doing today, when we are getting some inappropriate things right in the way the board was originally constructed. Of course, we support that. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that this is also the case with them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113001	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113012	Thank you. About 70,000 young people in Denmark have neither a job nor an education, i.e. young people aged 15-29. It is, of course, sad, and we have to do something about it, and that is why the alternative has also been included in this agreement on fuss. What we are discussing today is a proposal that deals with boards of directors. We support the proposal and we think it is good that a solution has been found to the problem of the representation of the municipalities on the boards. It seems inappropriate for the municipalities in the area covered by the institution not to be able to appoint a member. We believe that democratically sustainable conditions are essential, so we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113112	Thank you. There is no one from SF, Conservatives are covered by LA, and then it must be the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113124	I would like to express my thanks to the entire fgu agreement circle, which backs the bill. Together, we have quickly been able to find a constructive solution to ensure that all the new Fgu institutions get the best possible start and the best framework. This is primarily for the benefit of the students. Last year I established the landscape for the new institutions: 88 schools assembled in 27 self-owned institutions around Denmark. A large group of young people get a whole new preparatory training and one door to walk in instead of a multitude of swing doors. The target group for the new training is the young people under 25 who are without a job and are also not in or have completed youth education. The work of building the new institutions has got off to a good start, and the municipalities have worked hard to find good local solutions. However, some of the institutions have had a bit of grit in the machinery. A provision in the law on the maximum number of members on the new boards has meant that not all municipal councils have had the opportunity to appoint a member. This is not appropriate because there are major management tasks and decisions in the first year of the institutions. It is therefore important that all municipalities are present at the table. There will always be some small flaws in beauty when it comes to implementing a major reform, and that, of course, needs to be corrected. We are now doing so with this bill. We're changing the rules on the number of board members. This will allow all municipalities to appoint members to the first ordinary institutional boards regardless of the number of municipalities in the area covered by the institution. The possibility of extending the number of board members expires again until April 2022. The Act will enter into force on 1 April of this year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113317	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190222113334	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 26 February 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
