ParlaMint-DK_20190426100015	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100023	The debate is open. And it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100058	Thank you for the floor, President. We are now discussing a resolution which will require the government to give an official apology on behalf of the state to the people who were removed from their families in 1951 and sent to Denmark. This is evident among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution calls for the apology to be given because, as a result of the experiment, the people concerned have experienced serious consequences in terms of identity, family relations, language and culture. Let me start by saying, overall, that this is really, really difficult and that it is a difficult resolution. The Greenlandic children's stay in Denmark in the early 1950s and the subsequent placement at the orphanage in Nuuk is a very unhappy part of Denmark's history and Greenland's history and indeed also our common history, and it was a process that had very major negative consequences for a number of the children. History has been depicted in both books and in movies, and personal accounts in particular make an indelible impression. Looking back, it appears that the children's stay was set in motion with good intentions. This is true both for the Danish Department of Greenland and the Greenland National Council as well as for the organisations involved Save the Children and the Red Cross. And this unfortunate story bears witness to a time when the thinking in both Denmark and Greenland was different from what we have today. The view of children and children's rights has developed for the better, and we are living today in a completely different time. It seems unthinkable today, and it is an expression of a profound and positive development in society and in the sight of children and the importance of closeness to its family. Colonial times have long since ended. Greenland has autonomy, and the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is today characterised by equality, respect and cooperation, and so it must be. I visited Greenland for the first time back in September, and I just have to say that you cannot experience Greenland without having a very great love for the country and being very impressed with the great country. For the government, the question of an apology is a matter of principle, and this is also the case here, and the government does not believe that it is possible to judge the decisions of the past on the basis of the knowledge and values we have today. It can be noted, moreover, that changing governments have agreed with this attitude, regardless of the colour of the governments. At the same time, it is also important for me to say that I both understand and really regret the unfortunate consequences that decisions in the past have had for the people concerned, and that is why I say that the resolution is by no means easy. History isn't gonna change. What we can do is learn more about it and face our common past. And that is why I am glad that the government and the Naala Suisut have started work on a historical analysis of the matter. The explanation is not about placing blame, it is about clarifying the historical context, the nuances of the decisions that were made, and not least the human consequences. It is important for the Danish-Greenland relationship, it is important for the government, and it is of course also important for the people and families who have been or have been affected by this matter. But the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100432	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100438	Thank you. I note, of course, that we in Denmark believe that we need to address a large part of the challenges we face with human rights together with the rest of the world. Several other nations have recognised that colonial times are not over, understood in the sense that there is a backlog of racism, challenges of structural discrimination and recognising what has been done in a historical perspective. That is why Canada and Australia have apologized to their indigenous populations for the abuses that they have suffered and which in many ways resemble what Denmark has done, that is, the way they have behaved towards Greenland and Greenlandic children. So how will the Minister react to the fact that other nations are fully able to apologize, apologize and look back and say that it is not a closed chapter, and certainly not until an apology has been given, that is to say, acted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100548	I do not think it is for me to judge what other nations have made of decisions in relation to internal affairs in their countries. I actually fully acknowledge what we have done, and I have, of course, regretted and said that I am very sorry that the Greenlandic children came to Denmark in this way. It was a decision which was made in agreement between the Department of Greenland and Denmark and also with Save the Children and the Red Cross. When you look back, it is incomprehensible to us today. And it is also important to say that it will never happen!
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100635	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100637	So if the Minister can actually say today that the Minister is sorry and that the Minister is sorry and can recognise that we humanly need to give that recognition, why is it that the State cannot do the same? What is the dividing line compared to other states that can do that? I have not understood the argument put forward by the Minister and the government that it is not relevant and necessary to give an apology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100703	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100705	An apology isn't gonna make it up to you. An apology is not going to be able to heal the wounds. And it is quite difficult for us with the society we have today to deal with the decisions taken many years ago. The Greenland experiment took place a lot of years ago, and that is also why I say that it is right, really regrettable, and that it makes one both sad and immensely sad that there has been such a Greenland experiment and that it never happened!
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100743	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100747	Thank you very much and thank the Minister for his reply. There are cuts in our common history, as the Minister also mentioned, which we need to talk about, and which we also need to deal with more actively. I believe that there is much more at stake than an experiment that took place many, many years ago. It is important for Inuit Ataqatigiit to say that we do not see ourselves as victims in relation to what the state should have done. We believe that Greenland should be equally involved in taking co-responsibility for the decisions that have been taken. But we also believe that this is spreading like rings in the water, and it is not only for the children who were part of the experiment and there are three of them who are still living and who are here today in the hall • but also for their family, society and the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. That is, in fact, the message that is important for us to be included in this debate as well. I would like to hear the Minister respond to that criticism, because I think it puts things in a slightly different perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426100852	I therefore very much agree that this is of course important for many more people. This has had an impact on the children, and of course it has had an impact on the relatives. But it has also had an impact on the whole way in which it was cooperated at the time. That's also why we've gone into this and said that we want this historical explanation. It is precisely in order to clarify the nuances of the decisions that were taken, but it is also in order to achieve the good and solid relationship that must be between Denmark and Greenland in the future. It is also too clear to say that it must never again be the case that there can be an experiment where children are first sent to Denmark and then sent back to an orphanage in Nuuk. We can only distance ourselves from that. We can only distance ourselves from the actions of the past, and then we can try to ensure that we never again find ourselves in such a situation. That is why I agree that it is a question of stopping the rings in the water.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101010	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101012	Thank you very much. For us, it is about the right to a dignified life, and we believe that everyone has the right to a dignified life. And since some people are still living today, I also believe that it is very important for their lives to this day. I am thinking very much of the scars that they have been given as part of the experiment and that many in Greenlandic society in fact are experiencing just to a different degree that we can help heal. At any rate, on my watch, I would really like to help ensure that we repent and heal some of the scars that exist so that we can look forward. So I do not agree with the Minister that we cannot make a difference to this day. In fact, I believe that we can and not only for the children who were part of the experiment, but also to a large extent in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101101	I think it can be done both to reconcile and to heal both the wounds that have been and the scars. It can also be done without giving the excuse, which is a very fundamental one. This is not only true in relation to the Greenland experiment. This is also true in relation to other types of cases where one can question whether Denmark should apologise. There were, for example, the time when the white cuts were made, and there are the boys from Godhavn. It has been the case that changing governments have not meant to be able to undertake this to apologize, but I fully agree that we must of course reconcile and of course we must ensure that those scars are healed. It is also part of what the historical explanation should look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101149	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101151	At the time the experiment was a decision of the Danish Parliament. In other words, it was in this Chamber that that decision was taken. And I think it would be quite appropriate for it to be in this Chamber, too, to recognise that it was not the right decision and to apologise. Save the child was also part of it and also completed the experiment on behalf of the decision makers. In 2015, Save the child officially apologized and said it was a violation and a violation of the children's fundamental rights. If you live in a society in which you respect the fundamental rights of children and if you have acted incorrectly, I would think it was quite natural to apologise. What is it that doesn't want to do the same thing that Save the Child did, despite being together about the experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101247	In principle, changing governments have decided that we cannot apologise, and I fully recognise that this was not the right decision, as Mrs Aleqa Hammond also says. It was not the right decision to send the Greenlandic children to Denmark, nor was it the right decision to send them back to the orphanage in Nuuk. This has been very important, and I also agree that this applies not only to the children and the relatives who may have been there. It is also a question of the rings in the water. But changing governments of different colors... both red and blue governments... have said very clearly that it is really difficult to measure the actions of the past against the present. That is why we are in a completely different place when it comes to children's rights and human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101348	Mrs Aleqa Hammond has one more comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101352	The minister said an apology couldn't make it up to you. But the children who have been subjected to the experiment, i.e. the children who are still living today, all say that an apology will be crucial to the realization that there has been incorrect action. And when those children say that an apology will be crucial for them to have a good life for the rest of their time, how can it be that the minister thinks that an apology cannot make it right? On what basis does the Minister say this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101431	I fully understand that, and that is also why I began by saying that this is a very difficult resolution. It's not easy to come up here and say you don't want to apologize. But it is just the case that changing governments have decided that, in principle, there is no excuse for acts committed in a past that is so far back. And as I mentioned earlier, this applies both to the white cut and to other cases. The Danish-West Indian relationship is another example. So it is certainly not easy to stand here today, but we are therefore following the course of changing governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101517	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101535	Thank you. In 1951 22 Greenlandic children aged 5-8 years were removed from their families in Greenland. The plan was that they should be sent for a short stay in Denmark in order to learn Danish culture and the Danish language in better social conditions and then return home as role models. It should be part of the modernisation of Greenland. The decision was taken by the Folketing with the agreement of the Greenland National Council, and it was assisted by Save the Children and the Red Cross. In fact, the experiment failed, and several of the children never returned home or were later adopted. In 2015, Save the child gave an official apology to the 22 children. The following year, in January 2016, the Social Democratic Party itself tabled a motion for a resolution in which we instructed the government to give an apology... to persons who, in the field of social and mental welfare, have been neglected and where the State has not fulfilled its responsibilities in the discharge of their best interests. In the comments on the motion for a resolution, we mention the Godhavns boys, but also the 22 Greenlandic children. The motion for a resolution does not mention other specific groups to be apologized to, but requires the government to carry out an investigation to identify the people involved. The SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative supported the motion for a resolution, but overall there was no majority. At the time, the Greenlandic parties did not participate in the debate. Since 2016, the Social Democratic Party in its parliamentary work has sought to completely abolish the limitation period for the civil claims of abused children against public authorities, so that children who have been subjected to attacks on state institutions could be redressed by bringing damages against the public authority responsible for the abuses. In February 2018, i.e. last year, the work paid off, for with Law no. 140 of 28 February 2018 the limitation periods were completely abolished for claims against administrative authorities for failure to comply with child abuse cases. In practice, this means, among other things, that the Godhavns boys have now been granted the process authorisation to conduct their claims in the Supreme Court. Before the amendment of the law, the Land Court had found that the Godhavn compensation case was obsolete. It is noted that the 22 Greenlandic children are not in a comparable situation, as it is the very decision to remove them forcibly and therefore not their stay in Danish families and at Danish institutions that is considered an abuse. It remains to be seen whether the decision on forced removal can give rise to a claim for damages. The time has now come to apologise to the 22 Greenlandic children for the failure they had suffered, even though it was many years ago. All the children have suffered from this forced relocation to Denmark. I know that many have died, but there are still children from then who live, and it is they, but also the deceased, whom we should now apologise for what they were exposed to. There is no doubt that, back in 1951, it was done in the best sense, but it turned out that there was no good sense whatsoever in the experiment, and we should apologize for the pain and deprivation that they have suffered and are still suffering. The Social Democrats therefore vote in favour of the IA resolution, which deals only with an official apology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101940	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426101943	Before the Social Democracy came into government, they actually promised to make an official apology, but when they came into government, they stayed out of that excuse, and now the Social Democracy has a different attitude. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is it that makes the Social Democratic Party today support an official apology and did not do so earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102005	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102007	Now it is hard for me to know what has happened in the past, but fortunately, in politics you are allowed to change your mind because you are getting smarter. And we have learned more about this matter and have therefore decided, and we did so back in 2016, when we tabled the resolution, that we should apologise to the 22 Greenlandic children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102032	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102038	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. I think it is positive that we have the opportunity to become wiser. Now we are faced with an election, and if it is the Social Democrats who will be at the head of a government after an election, will they give an official apology to the children who were part of the experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102056	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102058	I think I can actually promise that here. Because when we tabled the motion for a resolution in 2016, it was among other things. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who was behind the motion for a resolution, and I am quite sure that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has not forgotten that. So I'm sure there'll be an official apology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102124	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102133	Thank you very much. There is nothing good to say about the Greenland experiment, which is why it is also good that we have the debate, and it is also important that we have the debate, both on the past and indeed on the present, and on what is happening now. We must always learn from the past so that we do not repeat the bad decisions that are being made. One just cannot look at what has happened in the past, with the eyes of today, because fortunately we have become wiser, and the decision that was taken then would never have been seen with the spectacles of today. As the Minister has explained, it is an entirely fundamental decision that the government has taken, and it is also the government that has to give an official apology, and we are not in any way interfering with that by the Danish People's Party. Of course, it cannot explain away that you have suffered and had your childhood destroyed and that it has left traces in your family and that many people are affected by this. But because it is a government matter, we in the Danish People's Party do not choose to support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102241	Thank you. There's no comment, and then it's sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102300	Thank you, President. The resolution here is, as I have said, about the government giving an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who, in 1951, were removed from their families and sent to Denmark as part of the so-called Greenlandic experiment. I would like to stress that the Left has enormous sympathy with the proposer and I am glad that we can take this debate because I know that it means a great deal. The subject is a sad part of our common history, which has affected not only the children but also their families. Fortunately, time has changed and today it is quite inconceivable that such a case could take place. Our current view of the importance of the family and the rights of children is an expression of a fortunately contemporary and modern thinking in our society. That is why the process has also been unforgivable, and it is a failure seen with our eyes today in 2019. But we must remember that both Denmark and Greenland, when the process was initiated, did so with positive intentions. As the Minister said, it was with the support of Save the Child, and I am sure that at that time the Save the Child had as good intentions as they do today. The same applies to the Red Cross, and the same applies to the Greenland National Council. However, the end result for the children affected and their families is sad and unforgivable, as I said. At the same time, it was a complex process, which is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister, together with Kim Kielsen, in cooperation with Naalaksuisut, has initiated a historical analysis of the matter, and I think it is important to respect that process. The explanation is about clarifying the nuances of the decisions taken, the human consequences and the historical context of the decision, and we therefore believe that the Folketing should wait for that explanation before making a final decision. As I said, the Left has enormous sympathy with the proposer, and I am glad that we will be able to deal with this subject in this session. But the joint investigation that we have decided on is important for the conditions within the Kingdom community, and that is why we believe that we should wait for that clarification. That is why the Left does not support the resolution, and I say from the Conservative People's Party that they share our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102538	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102541	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur. After all, this is a sensitive debate and one can also feel that emotions may be a little more out of clothes than when we discuss legislative proposals like this in general. I think it is interesting when the rapporteur says that we will decide what we are going to do when the investigation is, as it were, in place. Is it to be interpreted as being able to take the lead from the Left in ensuring an official apology in the long term? Is it something that the Left is open to, or is it something that is totally excluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102616	I don't want to exclude anything from the platform. At the same time, however, I would like to make it clear that it is important for us to wait for that clarification, because, as I say, and I think all the rapporteurs have been aware of this, the process that was in 1951 was very, very complex. There were many different players inside who did this, as I understand it at least, on the basis of good will. That is why I think it is important to wait for clarification before drawing conclusions on what to do after an investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102646	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102648	Thank you very much. In many ways it can be said that this is our common history that is being humanised, that is, some people are helping to tell the common story, and in this way it also has an impact on the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. Therefore, I also hope that it is an expression of being open to acting in a different direction in relation to securing a closer relationship between Greenland and Denmark, where you reconcile what is difficult to talk about, with a view to looking forward together and perhaps achieving a more equal partnership with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102723	I fully agree that reconciliation here is the key word, because what happened was quite wrong, everyone in this Chamber today agrees that reconciliation for the sake of families and for the sake of those affected is the important thing. However, I also think it is important to respect the joint decision that Denmark and Greenland have taken to make a thorough account of this, and I am quite sure that this is not the last time we are allowed to debate this issue in the Parliamentary Assembly. We have been debating this earlier • I could also understand that at the Social Democratic Party • before I myself came to Parliament, and therefore I think it is important to take the time and then wait for the outcome of that statement. But reconciliation is the key word here, and I am quite sure we all agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102813	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102817	An apology cannot make it up to you, said the Minister earlier. However, the people who have been affected by the Greenland experiment themselves say that an apology is essential for moving on with life as individuals. So I think that it is also the individual side of the story of the experiment that has a very important meaning, and not just a historical explanation. Does the rapporteur not think it would be important to look at things a little more nuanced and to say that it is the individual side that is of great importance and that a personal apology is of great importance to them and is something that needs to be looked at seriously, while at the same time it is also important that both countries take a historical approach in order to find a common platform to move forward on? How does the rapporteur of the Left view the individual side of the personal apology to these people? What does the Left say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426102920-2	I believe, as I said, that the word reconciliation is at the heart of this issue, and that applies both to the relatives, to the children themselves and to their families, but also to the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that the decision was taken here in the Folketing. But unfortunately, this Parliament has taken the wrong decisions over the ages. And there I think it is important to recognise that wrong decisions have been made. But I also think it is important that, before you say you are really sorry, you have a perfectly clear picture of what has actually happened and whether it is something that really requires an apology or whether the most important thing is to say: it was a mistake, it was unforgivable, what can we do forward-looking? I think that's what's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103008	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103012	Thank you. The rapporteur is talking about an explanation. Has this investigation been carried out? And when do you expect it to be finished?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103023	I know that the Prime Minister, in agreement with Kim Kielsen, has initiated a historical investigation. I do not have a date on which it will be available, so unfortunately I have to come back with the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103037	Thank you. There are no more comments. It doesn't look like there's anyone from the Enhedslisten. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103053	Thank you. Today we know that the experiment with the long-term stay of Greenlandic children in Denmark in the mid 1950s to be able to return home as model students in the bilingual school in Greenland was a mistake. It was unworthy, and it was stupid. This was not known at the time when the intentions were purely good on the part of both the Danish and Greenlandic authorities and, as mentioned above, also by the Red Children and the Red Cross, who participated in the experiments. We know today, because of the bad and unhappy experiences with the Greenlandic children, who of course make a great impression on us all that it was a mistake, and we know that it was a really bad and stupid decision, but it is not a decision that we can change. What we can do is learn from the past. And that is why I believe that this study is the right way to deal with the mistakes and stupidities of the past, by considering what happened in the right context and in the right historical light. The position of the Liberal Alliance is the same in this case as it has been in other similar cases. It's a matter of principle. We do not believe that the state should apologise for historical injustices. So when the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal, it is because we have a fundamental position on the issue of state excuses. We believe that the right place to place blame is in the courts. Unfortunately, nothing illegal has happened in this case. Something has happened wrong, we made a mistake, and we can now see that in the light we are today. And that is regrettable, especially for the children, but we cannot change it now. We can only make sure that it never happens again. So the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal. But, of course, we have it completely in line with all the other rapporteurs... bad with the decision that was taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103318	Thank you. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103321	Thank you very much. A clarification: Does the Liberal Alliance see that it is the right way to go that the children, who were part of the experiment at the time, should try this case in the courts and perhaps bring a case against the Danish state rather than get an official apology here from the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103345	The Liberal Alliance believes, in principle, that issues of guilt must be resolved in the courts. What is particularly important in this case in relation to, for example, the Godhavns boys case is that what was committed at this time is not illegal. What is the challenge is that even if they could take the case to the courts, it is not certain that they would be different. And it's unhappy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103415	Thank you. There are no further comments. Then we've got Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103423	Thank you for that, President. I'm sorry I'm standing here with a sniffle. Today we are discussing B 93, proposals for a parliamentary decision to give an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who were part of the Greenlandic experiment in 1951. The Danish state has forcibly removed children. This is a violation of their rights. That is beyond doubt; a fact. Canada gave an apology in 2008 to the country's Inuits, who were forcibly removed and sent to state Christian boarding schools, and Australia has also given an official apology to the country's indigenous population, which was forcibly removed from their families and placed with white families as part of the assimilation that has been a mindset of all the old colonial powers. And it is with great humility that I stand here today. Firstly, because the Greenland experiment has had major consequences for the children affected and for Greenland as a country. Secondly, because there are three of the present children present here today. And thirdly, I actually had a hard time holding back my tears when I was talking to them earlier, and I did, because every time we take up these subjects, and it's important that we do it, we also help to re-issue the victims and their bodies and their souls for the traumas that they have once suffered. When I have to stand by and listen to the fact that we in the state are refusing to take responsibility for these historical mistakes and abuses, namely to take the responsibility that is called an apology for reconciliation, it hurts me deeply, and I am filled with impotence and anger, of course, and especially because of the children who are present today, who are now adults, but who have lived with the consequences throughout their lives. In 2017, the Institute for Human Rights presented a report showing the extensive discrimination that Greenlanders are still experiencing in today's Denmark, which is part of our post-colonial circumstances. So no, colonial time is not over. And no, you can't have a reconciliation without saying you're sorry. Are there any of us who live in a relationship that believes that if we have done something wrong, then we can move forward without apologizing? Can you just say, 'Well, it's been so long now that it's not relevant anymore?' Nobody wants to buy that in a relationship. And it is so often that I experience Danish politicians talking about the kingdom community as brotherly, sisterly, familial, but when it comes to recognising the human costs that have been, by being a colonial power, one cannot take one word in one's mouth. Many other states have done so, and I think it is shameful that we cannot find a way of doing so in Denmark. So, on behalf of the alternative and our mandates in the Folketing, we want to apologise and we want to work to ensure that it is also recognised by the Danish state. I'm sorry! Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103814	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103816	Thank you, President. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur says that the Danish state has forcibly removed children and has thereby violated their human rights. Just to put it right: we are also taking children out of their homes today, is that also a violation of the human rights of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103835	In 2015, Save the child gave an official apology to the 22 children who were part of the experiment, and Save the child announced that the forced relocation was an infringement and in violation of the children's fundamental rights. Today, the incident is considered to be out of step with both the UN Children's Convention and the UN Declaration on the Rights of indigenous peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103901	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103902	But the rapporteur does not answer my question. We are also forcibly removing children today. Is that also a violation of their human rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103909	That depends on the circumstances in which it is done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103915	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. There is no rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426103930	After all, it is a tragic matter that we are dealing with in the Folketing today, because it is a matter of neglect of the worst kind. Colony time still throws so many years after dark shadows upon us and, of course, especially into the people who are directly affected by it. I am also speaking on behalf of the Radical Left in favour of the motion for a resolution. We support an apology from Denmark to the 22 children. The 22 Greenlandic children in the 1951 experiment must have an apology from those responsible, and that is to say, to the extent that we are dealing with it, from Danish politicians. But we also think that if it is to make sense, it must include an apology from similar Greenlandic politicians. Responsibility is common to both countries. The decision was formally taken in the Folketing, and therefore the current Parliament stands on the shoulders of the decisions taken by the former Parliament, and therefore the apology must come from us. But we call for a corresponding apology from the Greenlandic Inatsisartut, which is in the same way on the shoulders of the Greenlandic Landsting, which was part of these decisions. We should not wait for decisions to be made in Greenland, but for us it makes sense that it is a common excuse from the people who are responsible for it, and it must be from politicians in Denmark and in Greenland. On the other hand, the apology must be unreserved. And we think it might be a good start that we should start by adopting the resolution tabled by the IA. We can also hope that this will be the result of the joint investigation work that is under way. And it is not, of course, because it can in any way correct the failures suffered by the children, but it can hopefully alleviate just a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104156	Thank you. There is no comment to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104232	Thank you. The resolution we are debating here today concerns an apology to the 22 Greenlandic children who were removed from their families and sent to education in Denmark at the beginning of the 1950s. It is children who since grew up with scars on their souls, more lost their language, their homeland and their families. History is described in books and movies. It is one of the black chapters of the Commonwealth where Danish authorities have violated some children. It is time we had this debate. It was a decision made in the Danish Parliament with the agreement of the Greenland National Council, and the experiment was assisted by Save the Children and the Red Cross. The aim was to transform the children concerned into role models in Greenland's society as part of a modernisation of Greenland. Canada's Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, was last month in Nunavut to apologise, on behalf of the Canadian Government, that Canada had, decades ago, removed children from Inuit families and sent them to boarding schools. England already apologized in 2010 to the children who were moved from British possessions between the 1950s and 1960s. Australia apologized in 2008 to the children of indigenous peoples, who were forced into institutions and white families in the 1960s. Canada also apologized in 2008 to the 150,000 children from indigenous families who were brought up in white schools in the south, and therefore again specifically to the Inuit population this year. Most recently, at the beginning of this month, the Belgian head of government, Charles Michel, has formally apologized for the kidnapping of children by the Belgian State during colonial times. But what is it that makes a large number of old colonial powers easily apologize for their past atrocities in the colonies, while that recognition has not reached Denmark? What is it that causes Denmark to refuse to give the excuse that would otherwise help to reconcile both sides with their past? In 2019 Save the child gave an official apology to the 22 children who were part of the experiment. The organisation announced that the forced displacement of Greenlandic children was a violation and contrary to the fundamental rights of children. Today, the incident is considered to be out of step with both the UN Children's Convention and the UN Declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, which has later arrived and which Denmark has also ratified. In fact, before the Social Democracy last came into government, they promised to make an apology when they gained power, but it did not. The basic apology of the government failed. According to rumors, it was the Attorney General who had said that they were not allowed to say that, because claims were feared, and there was a fear that larger cases would come out of it. Then they bowed down and failed to do so. But hopefully things now look different, as we could hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur today, if they come into government after the next elections. One is tempted to ask Denmark: How small can it be? No one has aired claims among the few who still live from the Danish forced relocations of the children from Greenland. And even if they had, it would never have cost much more than perhaps a half bypass in Mariager. Virtually all the countries referred to, which have apologized, have even voluntarily followed it up with the allocation of funds to support the families affected and their children, but instead in Denmark there is a fear of a non-existent claim so much that one refuses to apologize, despite the fact that the last survivors are deeply praying for that very thing. Naalakkersuisut's chairman, Kim Kielsens, and Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen's agreement on a historical explanation earlier this year is a compromise that has ensured a common platform between the governments of Greenland and Denmark. This is a step in the right direction, because it is true that we both have a share of responsibility, just as the debate on this resolution is a step in the right direction. Although the result of the resolution is predictable, we shall vote in favour of the resolution. I hope that the historical analysis will be completed as soon as possible and as planned and within a clear timescale. Greenland and Denmark must continue, Greenland and Denmark must take co-responsibility and make an official apology. I hope that this is one of the last steps in recognising that an official Danish apology is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104747	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104750	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I got the impression that the rapporteur was reminded that Denmark was such a little the great evil colonial power that has forced Greenland into something, and I just want the rapporteur to confirm that Greenland itself wanted to push through this, so that it was not only a decision here, it may well be, it was taken here in the Folketing, but it was also something Greenland wanted to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104816	I have not in any way said that Denmark is the great evil colonial power. I told you what I said. I said that a decision was made here in the Folketing. A decision was made in the Danish Parliament with agreement from Greenland, and the experiment was completed. In this context, it's not a matter of finding a boogeyman. This is a question of taking a position of principle to apologize in principle for the wrong decision that has been made and that people have been harmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104854	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104856	Thanks for the clarification. Since this official apology is so important, why is it that Greenland itself has not been out to apologize?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426104907	Greenland has taken an initiative and made representations to the Prime Minister, our President of the Naalaksususut, to the Prime Minister about a possible excuse that has been spoken, exactly what they said, we do not know. But we have come to the realization on the part of both sides that we are making a historical analysis. I think this story has two sides. One side deals with the personal side of the individual child who has been subjected to this experiment and the consequences it has brought with it. The personal, individual excuse for these people is essential for them to have a good life in the future. That's one side. The other side deals with historical responsibility. It must also be placed both in relation to Denmark, but also in relation to Greenland. We have not in any way said that we have no part in this. The National Council has been aware of this and has supported the idea. But it is incredibly important, because the decision was made here, that an apology should also be made from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105006	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105008	Thank you. If we could get 90 Members today who could vote in favour of this resolution, then we could oblige the government to apologize to it. The same will be true after an election with a possible government led by the Social Democrat Party, because 90 members will also have to be obtained. We just need to make sure we agree on that. I'd like to hear a little more about how you work with it in Naala Suisut. This is not so much the agreement between Kim Kielsen and the Prime Minister, we have heard about it, but how do you work on this matter at home in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105053	I can say that I have never heard of any people in Greenland who do not agree that there should be an official apology for these children. Everybody backs up on this. But as far as Inatsisartut is concerned, I can say so much, because I am also in Inatsisartut, that we support the common historical analysis. The debate that has been going on in the media since that agreement was reached is about a very complex matter. It is also a matter of great importance to the Danish Government in principle, but how to get out of this matter, I do not think it will be quite easy either. But I think that, after a historical analysis has been made, we can also come up with a historical apology. I think it will be along the way that Greenland also wants it to end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105151	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105153	Has Inatsisartut taken the initiative to apologize?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105200	Inatsisartut has not dealt with the matter that Mr Inatsisartut has not tabled with a motion for a resolution, a total of Mr Inatsisartut is supporting a historical analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105209	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105220	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the various parties. I am, of course, sorry that we cannot get a majority. It seems that we may be a little closer than we have been in the past. But that's what it looks like. We have tabled this motion for a resolution on an official state apology to the 22 children who, in 1951, were forcibly removed from their families and sent to Denmark as part of a social experiment. Many did not return to their families, and many of them never got quite the relationship that at least many of us have with their families. We have tabled this motion for a resolution for a number of specific reasons, because there are cuts in our history, which require special attention ■ our common history between Greenland and Denmark. We need to talk about this in order to be able to look forward. This is one of the decisive impact that there is. Because if we want development in Greenlandic society, then there is also a need for reconciliation. There is a need for recognition of these injustices. I have no doubt that an official apology from the state and from Naalaksuisut will have a great significance, not only for the children who were part of the experiment. As I mentioned earlier, it is as poor in the water in relation to their families, but also in relation to society and in relation to Greenland and Denmark. If we want development, it is also important that everyone can take part in that development. The children, who were part of the experiment, have lived a long life with the scars imposed on them by the authorities involved. Now it is time for those scars to be healed so that everyone can look forward. Inuit Ataqatigiit has not tabled the motion for a resolution for Greenlanders to be the victims of the Danish state here many years later, but we are putting it forward because we believe that everyone deserves fair treatment. Everyone has the right to dignity in relation to the treatment that has been both in Greenland and in Denmark. In Greenland we have been involved in making the decision ourselves, and the investigation will most likely also show this, and therefore we will also follow this case to the door, also in Greenland. For human rights and the law should be equal for all of us, and that justice and dignity and respect should be given to those children who were part of the experiment. And on the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we would at least like to say that we would like to help apologize to this and that we would like to contribute to giving the justice and dignity that we think you deserve as well. The experiment happened before I was born, but there are also many of us who stand on the shoulders of the older generations in Greenland. There are many of us now I am not quite young anymore who enjoy the many privileges and the many battles that have been fought before we were born. That is why I also think it is important that we show respect for older generations and that we show respect for ensuring that everyone can take part in the development of Greenlandic society, both older generations and younger generations. But we also believe from the Inuit Ataqatigiits side that this sort of thing is pulling strings up to today, because it can be said that behind this social experiment there was also a view that being Danish was better than being Greenlandic. And in many ways you may have dragged such a social model down over the head of a society: Now you must be Danish. And it was not just something that happened in the experiment, but it was something that happened in Greenlandic society. That is why I also believe that there is much at stake, politically speaking, in ensuring that we work towards a more equal partnership, a more equal cooperation between Greenland and Denmark, where we Greenlanders are also recognised for what we can and where we walk on an equal footing from this perhaps big brother-small brother relationship to a more equal cooperation and a more equal partnership between Greenland and Denmark. So in this way, both politically and humanly, much more is at stake when we deal with this resolution. The crucial thing for Inuit Ataqatigiit has been that these are living people who have lived a long life with these scars, and where we in the Folketing can help make a decisive difference in their lives, in their family's lives, in recognising that the pain they have caused, we want to help heal, and we want to help all of us look forward. 3 of the 22 children who were part of the experiment and who have grown up today are listening today. Helene Thiesen and great Kristine and little Kristine sit with them, and I am very glad they do. They have lived a lifetime of grief, where both family relations, identity and language have been destroyed for them as children. I think it's important. The scars with which they live today, we can help to do something about them. We can help to reconcile not only at a human level, but also at a political level, between Greenland and Denmark. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. The social experiment was carried out in the best sense, and it is also the title of one of the books describing the whole process. And the expression of the best opinion makes me run cold down my back to this day. Because if you commit an assault on a child with the best intention, does it make it so good that you have done it in the best sense or with the best intention? No, I don't think so. And the mantra today has been that we have become wiser and that we know more today. That is why I also think it is a pity that we are so close to the objective of ensuring an official apology. I have no doubt that something that may seem very symbolic will be something that will affect us all, both at a human level, but also very much in relation to the development of society and better cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. We tabled this motion for a resolution in the hope that the Danish Government will take responsibility for the sad historical events of the social experiment. And we had hoped that the government would help ease the lives of the affected people and their families, but also for the Greenlandic community, including the three who are sitting here in the Assembly Hall today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105936	Excuse me, hold on a second! I would have waited until afterwards, but it is not good practice to bring the audience into the debate in this Chamber. Then please don't do that. It was because it was the second time it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426105946	Those children who were part of the experiment deserve that respect. They deserve to be guaranteed that dignity. And, of course, Inuit Ataqatigiit is a pity that there could not be a majority in favour of the resolution, but we will follow the matter to the end, even after an election. We hope that, across the political wings here in the Folketing, there will also be support for the future. You could say that time is different today. After all, we are seeing around the world, which has also been part of the debate today, that there are more and more countries that recognise things that have happened in history. This is done for a reason, because it helps to reconcile, and it helps to heal the relationships that exist. With those words, we would like to thank you very much for the debate and thank you very much for the words that have been said. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110042	Thank you. Then there is a comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110044	First of all, thank you for the motion for a resolution, as I said, the SF will vote in favour. I would like to ask you a question about a single passage in Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's speech. That is where Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen says that it is a joint responsibility for Greenland and Denmark. What initiatives does the IA expect to take to ensure that an official apology from Greenland is given to the Greenlandic children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110113	Thank you for the question. First of all, I think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister and the President of the Naala Suisut have discussed this issue at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. It also says that it has a certain weighting. Well, then I'm a little sad that it's just an explanation you've come to. But we would like to do ours, also in relation to following up on this case in Inatsisartut. How exactly that is to be done, I have to discuss with my colleagues in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110143	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110210	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 30 April 2019. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110403	Thank you very much. In today's Denmark, you can as a citizen make use of authorized psychologists and psychologists without authorization. As such, I do not think that the individual is wondering whether one or the other is being treated with, but today there is a very large difference between what these two titles mean. If you are an authorized psychologist, you are under the supervision of the Psychologist Board, and you can therefore also complain about the given authorized psychologist. But if you go to an unauthorized psychologist, you have no rights. This means that there is no right of appeal and no supervision that follows up, and this can have serious consequences. We recently saw a case in which an authorized psychologist was deprived of his authorisation, but then continued to practise and that certainly should not be possible. Here the psychologist violated a citizen who came to be helped but instead was subjected to abuse and violations. There were several things in this case that made me think that we need to look at this psychological system. That's why I had a talk with the Minister for Social Affairs. With this debate, I hope that we will focus on the problem and that we can reach an agreement that will ensure security for our citizens when they are most vulnerable and need treatment. I look forward to a good debate and hope that in future we will see a different approach to psychologists.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110532	Thank you. Then it is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426110543	Thank you, President. And thank you for calling today's debate on the authorisation and supervision of psychologists. I am asked whether the government will change the rules in force so that psychologists will not be able to practice without authorization. Part of the reason why we are here today is a very unpleasant matter, which has also filled a lot in the press. Here, an authorised psychologist has exploited a vulnerable client, and in May 2018 the Psychologist Board has temporarily deprived the psychologist of his authorisation, because it has assessed that he poses a risk to client safety. The psychologist was later sentenced to 3 months in prison and denied the right to act as a psychologist for 3 years for having exploited a female client sexually; the sentence is now appealed. The case has helped to focus on the current rules on the authorisation and supervision of psychologists, and that is, in fact, very good. Because this is a serious matter, and it is nothing less than scandalous when a professional, an authorized psychologist, exploits and abuses the trust of a vulnerable person. Fortunately, the legal system has reacted as it should. Having said that and we are looking at such general changes to the system, I am of the opinion that we should be a little cautious in resorting to very extensive legislative changes on the basis of individual cases. I also believe that we should perhaps be a little cautious about embarking on very substantial changes that will apply to everyone. In order to justify this, I would like briefly to describe what tasks psychologists in Denmark are actually working on, and describe the certification system that is currently in force. At the same time, I would also like to give a brief outline of the means of redress and supervision already in the field of health in relation to psychologists. Many psychologists in Denmark work with tasks that can be described as health related. This includes both psychologists in health care, including: in hospitals, as well as the private practitioners. Other psychologists do not specifically work with health-related tasks. For example, they can work with more general strategic tasks. It could, for example, be done. be in a HR department of an enterprise, organisation or the like. They may also have other self-employed activities or work in the municipalities or in the State administration. So when can you call yourself a psychologist or an authorized psychologist? The use of both titles is regulated by the Psychology Act, and it is clear from the law that the term psychologist may only be used if a university or other higher education institution has passed a Master's degree in psychology or an equivalent examination. The Psychologist Act, on the other hand, does not contain any detailed rules on how a person who has trained as a psychologist may practise his profession. And a psychologist chooses whether to apply to the Psychology Board for a license. In order to obtain approval, one must have passed a Master's degree in psychology, psychological-pedagogical graduate or equivalent examination. In addition to your master's degree, you have to undergo an additional practical training of two years' duration. Once you have obtained a license, you have the right to use the title authorized psychologist. After all, the Psychologist's Board keeps a list of authorized psychologists, and the list can be found on the name's website. If you improperly use the title psychologist or the title authorized psychologist, you can be fined. So what does it mean to be authorized psychologist? In addition to further training, the psychologist also comes under the supervision of the Psychologist Board, both in relation to the psychologist's professional activities and to his or her ability to perform his or her duties. The Psychologist Board is a supervisory authority and therefore not a review body. This means that the Psychologist Board itself decides whether there is a basis for raising an supervisory case against a psychologist. The Psychologist's Board has different reaction options in its supervision, and it ranges from pronouncing criticism to ultimately depriving the authorization. The more serious decisions of the Psychologist Board are published on its website, mentioning the name of the psychologist. This includes, among other things: the decisions taken by the Court on the withdrawal of authorization, and the same applies to judgments on the subject. If you look more closely at the psychologists working in the health sector, there are special remedies and supervision. The Board of Patient Complaints may, on the basis of a patient complaint, express criticism of a medical treatment. However, it is a criticism of the place of treatment and not of individuals. The Disciplinary Board of the Health Service deals with complaints about specific health care professionals. The Board deals with complaints about health professionals who have an authorisation under the Health Authorisation Act. For example, it could be doctors and nurses, but it can also deal with complaints about psychologists, whether they have an authorisation under the Psychology Act or not. In addition, health care is also subject to supervision. The Board of Patient Safety supervises the professional activities of health professionals who have an authorisation under the Authorisation Act and does not include psychologists as they cannot be authorised under the Health Authorisation Act. At the level of the organisation, the Board of Directors shall supervise the treatment sites on a risk-based basis. So what can a citizen who needs a psychologist do to make sure he gets a psychologist who has the qualifications in order? As the rules are today, citizens who are considering going to a psychologist have the opportunity, via the Psychology Board's website, to check whether the psychologist in question has an authorisation under the Psychology Act. Citizens can also see on the website whether the Psychologist's Board has published decisions concerning an authorized psychologist, in which severe criticism is made, is given a command, etc. If a citizen is in doubt about a psychologist's qualifications, including in relation to an authorisation, then the citizen also has the opportunity to ask the psychologist even for details before the citizen chooses the psychologist concerned. If the citizen has chosen an authorised psychologist, it is possible to contact the Psychologist Board if the citizen believes that the psychologist has behaved unprofessionally or has not fulfilled the duties of an authorised psychologist under the Psychology Act. And, of course, if there are possible criminal offences, it is the police and the judicial system that must react, just as has happened in this particular case. And that applies, of course, whether it is an unauthorized or an authorized psychologist. In this question debate, I am really glad that we will have a good opportunity to discuss and focus on the legislation on psychologists in relation to authorisation and supervision, because it is always relevant to discuss quality in this way. I therefore very much agree with the questioner that consideration should be given to what licensing requirements we should impose on psychologists. However, a demand that everyone, as I said at the outset, should not be allowed to embark on such very violent legislative changes, which will involve everyone, on the basis of such a specific case, which has been mentioned in the press, because the legislative changes which will, of course, affect very widely will also have very broad consequences. That does not mean, however, that we should not do anything. In other words, I am also very aware of the problem. In the Psychiatry Plan from autumn 2018, an initiative has also been announced in this area, namely that until 2025 we will ensure that we will have a closer look at whether it would be appropriate to introduce a health professional authorisation for psychologists, so that we will just clarify it in relation to those where it is most important. So we also need to clarify how such a demarcation can be made and how this can be done. I think this is very good and very important, so that we strike the right balance in terms of what we want to achieve. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111344	Thank you. Then there is one brief comment from the rapporteurs and the first is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111359	Thank you. I note that the Minister says that it would be very burdensome to have to introduce an equal licensing system for psychologists such as the one that applies to the other health care professionals. But at a time when we are actually lacking health care professionals, at a time when we are lacking doctors, could we not just say that this is what makes it possible to put psychologists at a different level than others? After all, the authorisation is also a factor in increasing recognition of other health professionals, who could be important in making the overall solution to the problem connected with health care. The Minister then thinks that we should perhaps allow psychologists to be equal to other health professionals and that it could be important to give them the same rules as apply to other health professionals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111447	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111450	I just think it's important to have a good deal of sense with you too. I believe that we can all see that there may well be a challenge in using unauthorized psychologists when it comes to health-related tasks. That is also why we have said that we would like to look at how a sensible definition can be made. But if you are a trained psychologist and work in a HR department and have never had a desire to act as a psychologist and have always wanted to work with strategic projects in a large company, there is no reason why you have to go through a 2-year training course to become a licensed psychologist. So if we're going to make legislative changes, we're going to have to do it, so it's going to make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111531	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111535	Thank you very much. Now the Minister mentions the Psychologist Board, and I would like to know whether the Minister himself has been on their website to see if it is easy and straightforward to find that information. I myself was on the website recently to see if I, for example. could find some criticisms of a psychologist for something that had happened one year ago. I think it was quite difficult, so I think how vulnerable people who are in a difficult situation have the opportunity to find the information that the Minister is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111606	I have actually even been on the website, and immediately I didn't think it was very difficult. I do not think that this is something that we should so politically interfere in how a website should be constructed. However, I think that everyone must have a great interest in the fact that this information is readily available and that it is therefore not necessary to click through a number of submenus to get to the relevant information. But I did not think, when I sat with it, that I noticed that the information should be very difficult to obtain.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111632	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111636	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would just like to address what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen said earlier about the authorisation, that is to say what the Minister mentions, in relation to the fact that it may be difficult and that you can work on some things where you do not necessarily need an authorisation. But these are precisely the rules that apply in the rest of the health care system. That is how it is for doctors and nurses and for the certification systems that we have in health care. There it is, of course, part of the training, regardless of what you're going to work with afterwards. But I'd like to ask you something. Now the Minister himself mentions the difference between acting as an authorized psychologist and an unauthorized psychologist and the supervisory rules that exist. In principle, then, does the Minister agree that it would be a good idea to have equal treatment of the rules so that the Psychologist Board also had the opportunity to supervise psychologists who are not authorised? After all, it would also be psychologists who would be able to receive citizens coming in. One can still call oneself a psychologist and be able to receive citizens. Would it be reasonable that they were also supervised and that it could be handled by the Psychologist Board and that it would also be necessary to strengthen the resources and competences of the Psychologist Board?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111745	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111748	That is such a rather difficult question to answer, because I do not think there is a very clear ideological or political answer, but perhaps there is a slightly more practical answer. I guess the practical answer is that we need to have some arrangements that work. In what I see when I look into the way psychologists work, I actually see a supervision which must work and which must also ensure to a large extent that if you do not need an authorisation, it must of course be withdrawn. No doubt about it. But I do not know if there is any reason for the major changes. Anyway, I think that will certainly be discussed. We shall now at least be discussing first how and how to limit authorization to health care professionals if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111839	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Malou Lundød, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111845	Thank you and also thank you to the Minister for your reply. The Minister himself mentions that in connection with the psychiatry plan up to 2025, one will look at the appropriate way to look at such an authorisation. So I really just want to hear the Minister when you expect to have some conclusions on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111906	I think it is harder to say something very concrete about this, because I think it is also a very important task to make that distinction, and it must also be sensible. So, of course, there has to be a balance between doing so as soon as possible. There is no reason for anything to lie and wait but at the same time also have a proper preparatory work. I am actually aware of the most important thing, and that is that it has been clarified. And there you can give a great deal of praise to the Danish People's Party, which just got it in the psychiatry plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111933	Thank you for that and we shall proceed to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111947	There are general rules for short remarks. It is first the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426111958	As citizens of Denmark, we need to know for sure when we use our healthcare system. We need to have confidence in our practitioners, we need to know what happens to events that should not happen, we need to be able to complain and we need to be able to intervene against individuals. So you have to do that when you go to a shrink. Today it is the case that doctors, nurses, social and health assistants can be deprived of the right to practise their profession, but that cannot be done for psychologists. Because even if the psychologist is deprived of his authorization, he can continue to practice, and unfortunately there have been some unfortunate incidents. Today we have a health service in which we want more competences in play, including psychologists and psychologists. Over the past many years, we have actually spent a great deal of resources talking about psychological systems and providing funds and subsidies to enable a great many people with various illnesses to make use of psychologists. We also believe in the Danish People's Party that we can make use of these competences, because only in this way can we maintain the state of health that we all talk about, and that is why we must also make sure that you feel safe when you visit a psychologist. In the Danish People's Party, we want the psychological system to move into the health profession, because when I asked this question, I actually thought it was to the Minister for Health, and was a little surprised that it was to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, and so was the Minister, so you can see that something is wrong, and I have also talked to other rapporteurs who thought that it was with the Minister for Health and the Health rapporteurs. We must ensure that when we as citizens go and are treated, there must be some who know what they are doing and that there is supervision and that we can complain. Over the past few years, we have made a lot of use of making permits in many areas of the tattoo law, and we now have laser processing. After all, it is all those who have to do with people, and I think that is also the right way to go. Today we are also talking about paramedics and pharmacists. Anyone who works with people in the health or social services must therefore be able to be authorised, so that we as citizens know what vocational training is behind it and that there is a place to complain and that supervision is being exercised. Then the Minister says that there are some burdens. This was also the case for all the other groups that we authorized, and so they must be paid to the purse themselves if they are to be part of the public sector, which also helps to benefit from subsidies. We involve psychologists more and more. It may be that you get involved in a workplace, but you still have a term as a psychologist, and I think most citizens, if they get poked and asked what a psychologist cares about, will answer that they take care of something with the human mind. Is there a difference between sticking a person with a needle or going into a person's brain? In other words, we are talking about so many people today who are mentally burdened, we are seeing an increase in the number of people with mental disorders, and that also means that psychologists are already a large part of the treatment offer we have. We hire psychologists in the municipalities to take care of some of the things we have. So we have to have something we can relate to. When we worked with it in the Health Committee, where we gave funds to psychologists, we found out in the first rebirth, where we did free psychotherapy for depression sufferers, that in fact there were a lot of people who did not benefit from it because they worked with different methods in the psychologists. The next time we took it up and evaluated it, we agreed that it had to be those who knew there was evidence of the cognitive treatment they were using, so we become much more specific about what it is that helps, and so we have to do that. We do not have a money tree in the garden and we need to ensure that the money we spend is spent properly and that we help those who get there. Citizens must have confidence in this treatment, whether there is a majority in favour of it being left where it is or whether we get it into the framework of the Health Committee. So when we talk about the Psychologist Board, as the Minister also mentioned, I think it should go into a higher gear. One thing is that they supervise and complain about authorized psychologists, but it did not help the offended person who approached them after being with an authorized psychologist. So it's another leg in this query: that they have to come up there and find out that this has to be easy and accessible. You have to make sure that you take care of these inquiries, so that you can either raise criticism or take the authorisation from the person, and then it should be easy to find your way around that website. It may well be that you can go in and see who has been criticized here and now, but I want you to be able to go back and see it in an easier way than you can today. I can see that I am about to finish my speech, so I just want to say that I am very pleased with the discussions I have had with the rapporteurs and that we can all support the proposal for adoption which I will read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that psychologists, unlike authorised health professionals (for example psychiatrists, other doctors, nurses, etc.) It is not administratively possible to be deprived of the opportunity to operate within their trade. Although a psychologist has been deprived of authorisation under the Psychological Law, he may practise it unless the psychologist has been denied the right to do so by judgment in criminal proceedings. It must therefore be easy to check, via the Psychologist's website, whether a psychologist has been authorized under the Psychologist's Act, including whether the name has been criticized, etc. by the psychologist, or if the psychologist may have withdrawn authorization. The Government has stated that, in its overall plan of action for psychiatry up to 2025, it will consider whether it would be appropriate to introduce a medical authorization for psychologists and how this could be done most appropriately. The Danish Parliament expects the government to complete its investigation as soon as possible as to whether it would be appropriate to introduce a health professional authorisation for psychologists. • V 90).
ParlaMint-DK_20190426112626	Thank you for that and the proposal is part of the further discussion. Then we begin with the series of rapporteurs, and that is Mrs Malou Lunderød, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426112640	Thank you, President, and first of all thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate. Unfortunately, we have it on the basis of a number of terrible cases, which have also left a deep mark on some people who have actually sought professional help. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to express my greatest respect for those who have appeared in these cases before me in the debate on the specific question. It must have taken a lot of courage and confidence that someone would listen to their stories, and I also hope that as legislators we can demonstrate that confidence. I think that, without going into the specific issues in detail, it can be said that it clearly shows that psychologists are working with patients who are often in a vulnerable situation or situation and that in the work that is going on there is something as fragile as other people's state of mind and psyche. Therefore, it is also absolutely crucial that patients can feel safe and secure when choosing to seek the help of a professional psychologist. Part of that security is for me also to see that as a patient you have the opportunity to complain, if you feel badly treated, or if the psychologist has broken the confidence that there must of course be in that relationship. In some of the examples we have seen in the media, there are, of course, direct crimes which must be dealt with by the police and the courts. This is also the case in them, and this must go its own way, but there must also be a safety net in situations where there may not be actual crimes, but where the psychologist has not yet lived up to the responsibilities and trust that must be in relation to them and the responsibility that lies with him as a professional psychologist. After all, when a psychologist is authorized, it is the responsibility of the Psychologist Board to supervise the practicing psychologist, and based on some of the information that has been advanced in relation to the cases, I think it is also appropriate to point out here that we expect the Psychologist Board to handle the cases that pass by their table and react in time when patients approach their experiences. However, as legislators, we must, of course, also be sensitive to whether the Psychologist Board has the appropriate tools, and we are prepared by the Social Democrats to look at whether we simply need to ensure a more fine meshed net for supervision, or whether we need to give stronger muscles to the Psychologist Board when there is a need to intervene. How it is to be tightened up is probably smarter people than I have to look at, but we are certainly prepared to do so. However, for us in the Social Democratic Party, the most important thing is to ensure the safety and rights of patients, and that is why we also support the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out and presented today. It has some very good elements in it, but I would also like to point out that these elements cannot stand alone, and we are ready to look at concrete proposals on how to link this together in an appropriate way, preferably sooner than later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426112954	There are no brief comments. I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur. We move on to the next in line, which is Mr. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113008	Thank you for the fine presentation, President, and thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking Mrs Liselott Blixt and the Danish People's Party for putting this theme on the agenda. This is, in fact, an important debate. If you look specifically at the cases which I think have led to the Danish People's Party having raised this question, it is quite easy to see that there is a need for us to look at the issue of the authorisation of psychologists. As legislators, of course, we have a responsibility to do what we can so that Danes who need to go to the psychologist can do so safely and within a reasonable framework, that is to say there is confidence in the Danish psychological state. Today, as the Minister also mentioned, it is possible to obtain a licence, and when you go to a psychologist as a citizen, you have the opportunity to inform yourself via the Psychologist's website about which psychologists are authorised. Then it may be that the website needs a shower or an independent inspection, but it is at least the thinking that you have that opportunity as a citizen. The questioners then call for the Minister to tighten up legislation and introduce a change in legislation so that psychologists cannot practice without authorisation. On the basis of the cases that have been, I think it is a little tempting to say that it has been bought. However, I also believe that there are some questions that we need to ask ourselves before we resort to more legislation. As far as I am concerned, the overall and first question will be: will tightening up the authorisation system really create more security in relation to the matters that have given rise to this debate, that is to say, more security for the individual citizen, or are we in danger of getting involved in the fact that we are actually saying from a political point of view: now we have done our job? In other words, is there real security associated with the tightening up that is being proposed here? In any case, I think that is a question that needs to be asked when you go into such a legislative space, so that it becomes a real, additional security that you then provide. Secondly, I think we should ask the question: will an authorization system with all that it entails, that is to say an extension of the concept, not be that the minister also mentioned a little violent intervention in relation to the psychologists who work in fields other than what can be defined as direct contact with the citizen? Thirdly, and I am sure Mrs Liselott Blixt also mentioned this a little bit, I think we should look a little more closely at the question of the possibility of complaining about the treatment we are receiving. At least that's how I feel myself. I think it's really the most important thing in relation to these issues, that is, the right of appeal. If you want to do something that is comparable to what you can in health care, it was probably here that you had to look deep. When all these questions are asked, I think we should continue to work on the area and we should keep a close eye on something happening. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has initially asked the Psychologist's Board for an explanation of the experience with the authorisation and supervision of psychologists, and at the same time I am also pleased that the government will look at the question of a health professional authorisation for psychologists in the context of the overall plan of action for psychiatry up to 2025. It is therefore an important debate, and I agree with the authors of this question, and I look forward to it being possible, in the light of such a slightly broader analysis of the appropriateness of the medical authorization of psychologists, to make some decisions on a slightly more qualified basis and in which we have also asked ourselves some of these fundamental questions. From my perspective, it is quite crucial that we think all the way around, for the sake of psychologists, of course, but also for the clients who are out in the whole country, so that they also experience real security by going to the psychologist. That is why, of course, we support the proposed adoption, and I should like to say that so does the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113446	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113449	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Now I could hear that Mr. Martin Geertsen has some concerns, or at least some considerations, about the licensing system itself. However, if we look at the supervisory board itself, where it is now the case that the Psychologist Board only supervises authorised psychologists, could the Left be open to extending the powers of the Psychologist Board so that all psychologists, including those without authorisation and those who have been granted authorization, could be supervised? Because there's a hole right now. And you can say that you will be able to do it immediately without having to go in and look at the licensing system and see where people work as a psychologist. But would the Left be willing to open up to extend the powers of the Psychologist Board in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113540	As I was also trying to say, and now I was a little bit on the one hand and on the other hand on what I mentioned here before, I am kind of open to looking into all the individual elements of this question, including the question of whether the Psychologist Board should have the opportunity to supervise psychologists who are not under the authorisation system. I think it is important to make it clear that in some of these very, very serious cases I do not think an authorisation system would have done either from or away in relation to sexual abuse and other things. I think this is a different discussion. But to answer the question, we want to take a look into that. And then I think it is extremely important that we get a deep look at this in particular about what the right of appeal is really like for people who go to psychologists.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113630	Thank you. I am really glad to hear that the Left is also open to looking at that. Because I believe, as the rapporteur also says, that this is both about ensuring the safety of patients for those who go to a psychologist, but it is also about being able to protect the brand or the safety of the term psychologist. We need to ensure that there is proper supervision and that people have a guarantee that if you go to a psychologist, you are sure that it will also be supervised by the public authorities. So I look forward to continuing positive discussions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113709	Depending on how the elections are going to go, I look forward to that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113715	The next question is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113719	Thank you very much. I would like to continue a little with regard to this authorisation, which the rapporteur mentioned, and that it would probably not have been better. No, it's true that some of these cases have happened with an authorized psychologist. The problem is that when you get the authorization removed, you can continue as a psychologist. I would then like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that citizens notice the difference, i.e. whether they are authorised or not, and whether the rapporteur thinks that it is right to continue to treat citizens when they are deprived of their authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113759	I think there are two things that Mrs Liselott Blixt has to do with. The first is what concerns visibility in relation to authorisation. It has to be sharper, I agree with that. And if there's a need for websites to go through properly, and for the whole system to be looked at in the seams, then I think we should do it. Can you then be allowed to practice further? I think, and I was also trying to signal that we should be completely open to what tools it is that we should use forward-lookingly in relation to the questions of who can drive and who can't do psychology in this country. So I'm actually willing to look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113850	I do not think I was given the answer to the question: is it okay that, if you are deprived of your authorization as a psychologist, you can continue to treat? It is so very, very short: yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113902	As I said before, we are willing to look into these issues with a completely open mind, including the question asked by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113910	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426113918	Thank you for that, President. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question. The reason for the question today is probably the series of cases that have been described in the press, which has shown that there is a gap in the supervision of psychologists who do not have an authorisation. When you are a trained psychologist, you have to go through a course of training in order to obtain an authorisation, which includes: is a demand for supervision. However, one can still act as a psychologist without authorisation, with only some limitations, for example. to be able to obtain subsidies from the public authorities. The supervision of psychologists is not, as is the case with health professionals, enshrined in the Health Act, but rather in social legislation. Supervision is carried out by the Psychology Board, and the problem arises by the Psychology Board only overseeing authorized psychologists. This means that as a citizen who seeks out a psychologist who has not been authorised or has been given the authorisation, you are in fact in a rather uncertain position of protection. It is absolutely essential, both for the safety of patients and for the professional protection of psychologists, that there is complete certainty about the supervision of the activities of psychologists. In addition to the fact that it can affect citizens in a vulnerable situation, it can also cast doubt on the integrity of the profession. We must do everything we can to prevent that. Psychologists play an important role in the Danish health care system, and this role will hardly diminish in the years to come. That is why it is also absolutely crucial that we ensure clarity and certainty about professional supervision. For Enhedslisten, it is absolutely crucial that we strengthen the competences of the Psychologist Board, both in relation to the resources they have and in relation to the opportunities they have to put in place restrictions. We would like further resources to be provided to the Psychologist Board, both to deal with complex cases, but also to reduce the processing time. We have seen in several cases that there has been a very long duration of proceedings to the great disadvantage of both the citizens who have complained to a psychologist, but also the psychologists who have a complaint. It should be in everyone's interest that there are resources to complete a case quickly, but of course also professionally and competently. At the same time, we believe that it is necessary to give the Psychologist Board more competences. The Psychologist Board should be able to supervise all psychologists, including those without authorisation. Furthermore, the Psychologist Board should be given the opportunity to deprive a psychologist of the right to practise without having to go to the courts. We think this should be the first step, but at the same time we can consider moving the supervision of psychologists into health legislation, as is the case with other health professionals. It should also be a future consideration, even when it is the case that we are going to look at the authorisation system in general. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, but we are also ready to go further, as I have pointed out here in my rapporteur's speech. But we look forward to looking at that in further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114226	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114234	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question. This is a good and important debate. And I also thank those people who have been brave and stood up, because I fully agree with the Social Democrats that it is a declaration of confidence for us politicians, and in these times, when there is a great deal of talk about a lack of confidence in the people's rule and a lack of confidence in politicians, it is actually very good to see people dare to stand up and say it because they have a basic belief that people are being listened to. That is why I think it is important that we take the debate into the Chamber and show that we take it seriously. So thank you to them too. I would say that for a liberal there is in fact a dilemma in this, because we are actually the ones who usually say that there should not be so much regulation and state interference, because that is what free market forces do. But there is something at stake when we are talking about vulnerable people: people who are in a situation where free choice is not so de facto free and who are not in a situation where they can rationally grasp their opportunities. That is why I think that, as a welfare society, we have a role to play when talking about particularly vulnerable people. That is why I think there are some good tactics in what we are talking about and in what the questioners would like to do, and in what several rapporteurs have also indicated we must work towards. Of course, I am also worried about the administrative trouble that comes with this, because we need to weigh this up in the face of the security that comes out of it. I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that psychology and psychologists are increasingly part of the treatment offers. So this is a health issue. I myself was also personally surprised that it was in my rapporteur's area, because I see it here precisely as part of our health sector and as part of the offers that are being made in the health system. What I think is a problem is the right of appeal. I think it is a problem that a judicial system should be used in this way. If you complain to the Psychologist Board, it is the Psychologist Board that has to assess it and whether they think the matter should be taken up. I think that should be a civil right. So, as the rapporteur of the Left also said, we must, of course, look into it to ensure that we have rights. Then there is the supervisory part, which I think Enhedslisten touches very well. You can then supervise the authorized psychologists, but what about those who are not authorized? What's our touch? Then it may be that you can go to the Psychologist's website and see if there have been cases in the past. However, when you are in a situation where you need a psychologist, you may not have the big surplus to go into websites and trawl them through. I think it is very good that, when we as consumers are to be informed in a market, Trustpilot has arrived, where we as consumers install things so that we can know about the offers in this way. I don't think you can actually make a Trustpilot in this area, but I would like us to have some kind of user assessment of the experience with the psychologists as well. Then, when you need a psychologist and are searched for a psychologist, you will have easy to find out who are specialists in what you need. For one thing, if you are searched for by a doctor, but there are also a lot of people who today use psychologists preventively. You can have crises in the relationship, so you need to see a party therapist, but where do you find those who are good? How do you get to know who specializes in specific areas? Because what you can do is that you can read on the individual psychologist's website, and they all think they can do everything and are really good at everything. But how do you know it's real? So, in fact, I think there are many challenges, and I think it is very good if, when the government presents how we can define it to the health care staff, put us together and find out more areas and not just this part. We in the Liberal Alliance would certainly like to contribute to that, because we do believe that there are some challenges in this area. So thank you to the authors and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114722	Thank you, and there is a brief remark from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114729	Thank you. I just want to remedy the moral dilemmas of the rapporteur in relation to the free market in this very area. Because I am thinking precisely whether the rapporteur can imagine that doctors, for example, should not be automatically authorised as they receive training. Or that nurses, as they receive training, also receive a certificate as a stamp that they are now able to practise under the conditions which are now in force in the legislation. And I would like to say a great deal about bureaucracy that I have been surprised at how bureaucratic the licensing law is in precisely the psychological field, unlike the health profession. So could we not also see this proposal as a debureaucratisation by simplifying it and putting psychologists on an equal footing with the rest of the health professionals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114819	It may well be a debureaucratisation exercise. I think we should at least try to do that. And I fully agree with that and that is actually what I was trying to say that the psychologists have become part of the treatment offer, and therefore they must also be considered more on an equal footing with the other health services. So that's where I don't think we disagree so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114838	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we have come to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426114851	Thank you. I thought I was going to be the standin for our health rapporteur today, but I shouldn't have to be the standin for our social rapporteur. So I've been surprised myself that this case was in the social field. I actually thought it was a mistake, but it wasn't. So there is something there that we agree with a number of people in this Chamber about today. On the whole, however, in the alternative, we fully agree that it is a problem that psychologists can continue to practise, even if their authorisation has been taken from them because they, for example, have been taken from them. has violated one of their patients sexually, as they do in the present case. Our own health rapporteur has actually made it clear that the alternative would like to help change the legislation in this area, and that is why we actually support the very fine proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, which advocates examining the possibility of introducing this medical authorisation for psychologists. This also means, in our opinion, that consideration is being given to moving the area to the Ministry of Health, i.e. also moving the Psychologist Board to the Ministry of Health. The fact that not all psychologists work in the field of health is true, but all psychologists work with people's mental well-being in one way or another, it may be in relation to a job or something else, but it is certainly in relation to mental well-being. So I don't think there's any good argument for not moving it over to the Ministry of Health. We must be aware that a psychologist who may be deprived of his or her right to practise as a psychologist can continue his or her practice under another title: psychotherapist or another unprotected treatment title, as well as a psychiatrist who is deprived of his or her medical title, may continue to provide patients with therapy under another title. So there are some challenges and some areas that you might need to look at in relation to this, and we have no lightning solution to it, but this is just one point that I think you should be aware of in relation to this issue and the further work on it. Then I would just like to finish by saying that we clearly also support the desire that it should be easier on the Psychologist's website to go in and see whether a psychologist has been indicted or something else. As Mrs Laura Lindahl rightly said, you just do not have the profit to start clicking up all kinds of subpages before you get that information. So it is really extremely important that, in this situation, we make it as easy as possible for the citizens. These were the words from there, but, as I said, we support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115135	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Marianne Jelved as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115144	I think it has been a pleasure to be here today on a completely different subject than I usually have to deal with. It shows a certain degree of authority at a weak moment that I am struck by the fact that it is the Minister of Social Affairs who is going to sit here and be the minister of the area, and I think that then I will have to comply with it as a social rapporteur. But in reality it should have been the health rapporteur. That is why I also find it interesting to try to find out at some point, not today, but at another time why the Minister for Social Affairs has become minister for this matter. After all, we have a lot of fun experiences, I had almost said, as ministers or as members of parliament, and you can sit in here and become wiser and wiser by listening to your colleagues from other parties, other rapporteurs, and I think that the citizens should really also be glad that we are constantly becoming wiser here. I would therefore like to explain a few considerations in this context. In fact, I have been very surprised that there is no requirement for the authorisation of psychologists in the health sector. I couldn't dream that there wasn't when there is for all other staff groups. It may in itself give rise to some study of what kind of thinking is behind it and what we generally view psychologists. Because it turns out that there are a lot of different kinds of psychologists. The minister himself referred to examples. You can have a psychological education from a university or a college, and then you will be employed in an architect firm or in a completely different kind of company, where you need the skills and qualifications that lie in that education, because you also have to think about human relationships when you, for example, have to. build a house. So that's definitely true. And there I will not demand any authorization, because it is a completely different type of work. But otherwise, I have actually come to the realization that I would like to demand authorisation for the psychologists who work in different places in our society. We have spent a lot of years trying to get a whole new divorce law through, and it has been an amazingly good process, and we have all become much, much smarter at a whole lot. We're among other things. also become more aware that the psychological examinations of children made in a divorce process are of very, very varying quality, because there are some psychologists who simply cannot describe what method they are using and why they are doing it, and thus do not get a qualified description that can be communicated out to those who need to know how the child is doing. That is why I think it should be said that, in this context, a child psychologist is one who must have a licence so that he can do something. The second area with which I have much experience is the school psychology area. So now we already have two categories, child psychologists and school psychologists, and that says something about the different qualifications they need. School psychologists are psychologists who try to help children who have special learning difficulties or other problems in school contexts and in e.g. also kindergarten contexts. They should also have a licence. Surely you can't put any psychologist who could go into an architect's firm to go out and be a school psychologist. It can't be done. That is why it must be linked to what we are demanding of them. So I have to say that an authorisation is really just a document of what it is for some areas you are particularly qualified to take care of for society as a whole and for citizens of all ages. It is a question of what competences you can expect and what qualifications you can expect, and thus of what responsibility you can put the psychologist in question. This will be a basic view of us in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115530	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. Then we have come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115542	Thank you for that, and also thank you from me to the Danish People's Party for raising today's debate on an important subject, namely the authorisation of psychologists. We fully agree in the SF that the supervision of psychologists and psychologists' approval is a major theme to discuss. We are, of course, in the situation where the SF's social rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today, is why I am the one who is actually a psychologist here, so I am reasonably up to date on how there are very large differences in the certification rules for health psychologists that I myself come from, and precisely the social area with which this area is connected. I have been very surprised at how diverse the rules are. Perhaps, following on from that and in relation to Mrs Marianne Jelved's rapporteur's speech, I could say that doctors also receive authorisation, even if they have to work in different areas. So authorisation can still be seen as such an overall method of protecting the title, but also as the quality stamp of society, which shows that these people have the right or the opportunity to treat the citizens whom we then in turn are responsible for getting proper treatment. Indeed, we think it is important that citizens always have the opportunity to complain about the treatment they receive, and it is crucial that it always takes place with strong and professional supervision, especially bearing in mind that those who seek psychological assistance and therapy are often people who are particularly vulnerable and in a vulnerable position. Therefore, we in the SF would also very much like all executive psychologists, whether they work under the public psychological system in psychiatry or as private practitioners, to be authorised and thus also subject to public supervision. In fact, one can always discuss how we get there, but I think that must be in the subsequent process. In fact, I think it is important to say here too that it is also important for us to have equal psychologists in the health sector, where they very often have their jobs. I believe that if we are to ensure recognition of the fact that other health professionals can also help solve the shortage of staff we have in the health sector in general and, above all, the lack of medical care, it is also important that we ensure that we can have confidence in the staff there. And that requires this quality stamp. That is why social and health assistants fought a struggle in the morning of time to obtain authorisation, because it is a quality mark of the work that you have to do afterwards. So I actually think it is important that we also ensure fairly uniform conditions. When we think of the health sector, it is important to me that the citizens who receive help know that authorisation is the same, whether you are a doctor or a nurse or a psychologist or a physiotherapist or whatever you are. Then, like this, you have the quality stamp of society that the treatment you receive is actually based on the education that we also agree on together. In that sense, we agree with the objective: we would like all executive psychologists to be authorized and subject to public supervision in order to be able to practise. How we get there, we think we will have a political discussion. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption which has already been read out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115917	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426115929	Thank you for a good debate, which I think in some way also provides a good starting point for future discussions. In fact, I also think it is very good that we should reach agreement on a proposal for adoption. I quite agree that we need to look at the rules for psychologists in terms of both authorisation and supervision. Here we will also look at how to make a medical certificate. When it's not that simple and it's not quite that easy, it's because it needs to be used where it's relevant. Now I can just mention from autumn's pool negotiations that we, among other things, are. went in and decided that when you do a section 50 study and in this context do a parental capacity study, it must be an authorized psychologist who is responsible for it. So it has to be a psychologist with a license. It is certainly not part of the health sector. It is not part of health care either. In this case, however, we have considered politically together that this is relevant. It is really just an example that I use to say that it is difficult perhaps sectorally to define it as being only in hospitals or only in the treatment sector. That is where I think we need more work to be done. But above all, thank you very much for the comments that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120109	Thank you, Minister. Then I give the floor to the author of the questions, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120119	In conclusion, I would like to thank everyone first of all for taking an active part in this debate and actually being positive, just as I would like to tighten it somewhat more, if we had had the will to do so. This time I just think that with the government getting a job started, it's worth waiting for it. But I hope and believe that those of us who sit here after an election will continue to work on something happening in this area. In any case, I promise that if the government in office at that time does not pick up the glove and do something about it, I will do it if I sit here. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120206	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 30 April 2019. Then we'll have to move around a little technically so that people can get back to their usual places after being completely ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120348	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to begin with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120411	Let me start with again, I think I can say, to take this opportunity to make it clear that the government is strongly opposed to social control and, of course, is in favour of safeguarding the individual's right of choice. It's only been almost three months since we last discussed this issue. The new motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is, however, contrary to the previous one, targeted public employees with direct contact with citizens. However, the new proposal also aims at a very broad group, which includes, for example: Sosu assistants in nursing homes, staff of a museum, bus drivers, primary school teachers and case managers. The government considered that the previous proposal from the Danish People's Party against religious headgear for all public employees was not only contrary to the Constitution, but also to Denmark's international obligations. Unfortunately, that assessment is not fundamentally altered by the fact that it is now delimited to public employees with contact with citizens. The framework continues to provide that the objective and neutral appearance of public servants may be regarded as a worthy objective of recognition justifying a restriction on freedom of religion within the meaning of Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, although the proposal is now confined to employees with contact with citizens, it remains the government's opinion that the proposal will raise a number of issues in relation to the Convention on Human Rights, since the proposed ban does not take into account the nature of the citizen's contact. The assessment of whether it is relevant and legally possible to impose a ban on significant religious symbols for selected groups in the public sector with contact with citizens will therefore require a concrete analysis of each specific job function and a factual description of the purpose of a ban on the individual job function. A general ban on all public employees with public contact is not considered to be legally feasible. Against this background, the government cannot, unfortunately, support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120643	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120647	Thank you. I noticed that the Minister said in the end that, unfortunately, the government cannot support the resolution. And that is of course very interesting in it one might say that the government would like to support the proposal, but, unfortunately, because there are these conventions, this cannot be done. So that is how I choose to interpret it, and the Minister can correct me if that is a wrong interpretation. But I also think that some of the other points raised by the Minister are interesting. Because I do not think there can be any doubt, when you look at the answers that have come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration from the Minister for Integration and the Minister for Justice, that there is an opening for this to be done in relation to public servants. You have to find the right model. In other words, the Danish People's Party is not so much concerned with complying with the conventions, but we recognise, of course, that there is a large majority in this House who care about it. But this suggests that there is a model for doing so here, also within the conventions. Will the government pursue it further?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120751	As I also said in my speech, at least an assessment will have to be made as to whether it is both relevant and legally possible to impose a ban on religious groups in selected positions. And, as I also said, this would mean making a specific analysis of each job function and also a factual description of the purpose of such a prohibition for each job function. And I would say that it would be a job that could be set in motion if one wanted to, but I can't tell you how it falls out. What I can say for sure is like Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen also mentioned that the government of course abides by the conventions that we have signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120847	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120848	Well, we have established over and over again that the government thinks that the conventions are immensely fantastic, and the rest of the Danish Parliament, apart from the Danish People's Party, has seen the government in it. So, the conventions are simply, I almost have to understand, God's gift to humanity means the government and other parties, but not the Danish People's Party. The minister then says it must be relevant and it must be factual. But that's it. It's relevant, and it's factual. It's a reasonable expectation to have as a citizen. Does the Minister agree that it is a reasonable expectation to have? And if the minister agrees with that then you can discuss the degree and where exactly you should put the cut... shouldn't we jointly explore what can actually be legally done?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426120944	It may well be politically thought that this is both relevant and factual, but that is not the question today. It is whether it is also legally feasible. And that is where I say that it will then require a greater analysis of each job function in the situation. To the comment that the government should think that the conventions are almost a god's gift, I think it was said, and immensely fantastic, I would say that I think it has to be said that if the conventions were written today, and if we could write the conventions ourselves, then there were things that did not look like they do. And that is also why we, together with the Danish People's Party, have regularly, it has to be said, gone to the edge and also challenged the conventions and ran a process risk. Let me just remind you, among other things. the question of the timing of family reunification. So it does not mean that we think everything is incredibly fantastic, but what we are saying is simply that we need a strong legal order in the world, and there is no doubt that we as a small country benefit from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121055	The next question is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121058	Thank you very much. I am sitting here as a health rapporteur, and that is why I go to health, because I am surprised that it is all about conventions. If not daily, then at least regularly emails and enquiries are made by people who in the health service have been met by people with religious headgear and who feel offended and who do not want the treatment of anyone who has a mindset that is far from their own. And I do not know whether the Minister can understand it, but what I wonder is that we have an Foreign Affairs and Integration Minister who says that a clarification should then be made. Now, apparently, we have had a period of government which has been longer than many others, and then I wonder whether we have started this calculation when we know that there are problems, for example. in hospitals, but also in schools and other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121150	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121151	No. What I'm saying is that if you want to ban scarves, let's call it what it is, it will mean you have to go through each job function. So it was basically just more of a factual information. And if you ask me what I think of the scarf, I'll answer that the scarf is a woman's oppressive symbol. Then it may well be that some have chosen to put on the scarf voluntarily, but that does not change the fact that the symbolism in the scarf itself is that it is a women's oppressive symbol. And then there are those who have not chosen to wear a scarf themselves. But in its basic substance, the scarf is a women's oppressive symbol.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121240	I am just wondering, because the Minister is talking about the fact that if something is to be done, an explanation needs to be made, and I think it might be appropriate that it was precisely the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration who took that analysis across the various ministries and areas, to see where it might be relevant where it is that we do not have the religious headgear that we see today. It is as if we are giving more and more to a religious attitude which is oppressive, primarily in relation to women, but which also fills more and more in our daily lives and our whole world perspective. That is why I would like to ask if we are now playing the role of re-election of the Minister and having the same ministerial role: will the Minister then set in motion an investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121328	In that case, it would certainly be something we would have to discuss at that time. But I do not disagree that the scarf is a women's oppressive symbol. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121337	Thank you, Minister. We move forward in the series of rapporteurs to Mrs Karen J. Klint as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121358	Thank you for that, President. I can say on behalf of my party, just as the Minister was very well told, that the small change that has taken place in the resolution since the last and last time it has been discussed does not alter our position on it, so we cannot support the proposal. So, in principle, I could just read Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's last speech, but I will give it a little Karen J. Klint-turn anyway. After all, we agree that in Denmark we are a secular country based on our legislation and that religion must not trump legislation in Denmark. We are always talking about in our party that religion is a personal matter, not a private matter, one can hide away and thus hide from the public, because then it happens, you can see in several religious communities, both Christian and not Christian, some dark things such as oppression and social control, which we do not actually get broken with. There are also some who feel that they are not understood if they want to break with the family tradition that is in a certain belief. These are matters on which we are currently focusing in the Committee on Churches, where we also have questions about how we can help those people who want to break with the religious conditions under which they have grown up. And if you want to break with some other environments, we do have exit programs, but we actually lack exit programs that know what faith can do to people who lose their family because they want to break with it. So I am not saying here that this is not a relevant debate we are taking, because it is always a relevant debate to discuss what religion does to people on the positive side, but unfortunately it also looked at the negative side. What I find very problematic in the motion for a resolution is that it is essentially the one gender in the family structure that can then be pointed out and said: do not show your faith because it is visible. But is it the scarf alone that shows what your personal behavior is like? I think that thinking under the scarf is more important than the scarf itself. We must go up against social control and we must go up against the involuntary nature of it. But should you show an attachment by wearing a turban or wearing a scarf because there are also men wearing a turban, and there are men who wear the Jewish kalot do that you cannot be a bus driver, because that is what you wear? I remember a few years ago when I used one of the bus lines from Amager very much, the bus driver who actually became the most acclaimed and most acclaimed bus driver on the line was one who wore the turban. So the citizens certainly had no trouble being met by him and driving with him when he was a driver. So I think we should be careful not to talk up any enemy images that can only be misunderstood and that can only help to increase the absence of integration that we have. At the same time, however, we must insist that religion must not be an obstacle to integration, nor must religion affect the way in which people are dealt with. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands, even if it is now a limited area of employment and staff it will hit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121738	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121740	Thank you. In other words, for the sake of good order: if this proposal is implemented, it will also mean that kalot and turban will then be banned. It is because it is designed in such a way that this proposal is, in that sense, religiously neutral. But there is no reason to hide the fact that it is the problems with the Muslim scarf that are the reason why we from the Danish People's Party have taken this up several times and also do it again. But I think that, in relation to other religions, one can actually argue that one can rightly expect one to tone down one's religiousness and political and ideological attitudes when one represents the public. In fact, I think you can argue for that. I would also like to say that if this proposal were to be implemented as it stands here, it would not mean that there would be a ban on, for example, a ban on. A Muslim woman showed that she was a Muslim. There would be no ban on that. She would be able to show this by means of this proposal, for example. to have a discreet jewelry around your neck, just as there are many Christians who have a small cross hanging around their necks. It's still gonna be allowed. That is also what I think the Ministry is proposing in some of the answers they have given to the committee. You say that, and I think the Minister also says that in his speech, as I hear it, you can do it, but you just have to delineate it to some groups and then also find out where the cut is, in relation to which religious symbols you want to accept and when it is going to be too violent and too significant. But I have to understand that even if you could define it and so on. And they say that a Muslim woman must show that she is a Muslim, just in a more discreet way than wearing a head scarf, so will the Social Democracy still be opposed because it is simply thought that the most important thing is to take account of the public employee who wants to advertise a lot, very clearly with her religious affiliation? That is the most important consideration to take, and not to take into account, the citizen who may expect to be met by a public representative who is as neutral as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426121938	Our position is not that showing one's faith consistently contradicts being a democrat and respecting the standards of society. We live in a world, and we live under a constitution in Denmark, where one has freedom of belief. We see some of the dilemmas presented by the proposer, but we do not see it as an overshadowing problem, so it is just that, and so it is just the female health person or bus driver that we are going after, while there may be many others with quite different non-democratic attitudes because of a conviction that does not wear headgear. They then meet citizens with a way of being that can be more problematic than the friendly health care professional or the friendly cleaning lady who cleans the school, where having a head covering is not at all problematic. So we think it is better to talk about what triggers the real problems and how we deal with them than to talk about a single garment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122044	Some of the things that trigger the problems of social control, etc., which we in the Danish People's Party find an incredibly interesting and important debate, are of course among other things. the Muslim scarf. It is used as a tool to control what others do and what others have to do. So if you want to get rid of social control it is perhaps more right to say religious control, perhaps even more right to say Islamic control, then you have to look at some of the tools that are being used to keep people in that control, and that is one of them. the Muslim scarf. However, I would just like to say, so that there is no misunderstanding here, that if our proposal is implemented one by one, one can of course show one's faith. This is something we can do with our proposal. So if a Muslim woman wants to show her faith, she can do it by wearing a discreet, neutral ornament around her neck... a crescent moon... and a Jew can show it in the way he wants to do it with a david star. So you can do it. We just want it to be toned down because as a citizen you can expect you to be met by a representative who appears neutral. So can it not be that the Social Democrats still think that we can find out so well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122150	We have read the resolution, both the first, second and also here the third time, and we do not think it is the right tool to achieve the objective advocated by the proposer. We would rather say that we should go straight into the environment and look at social control, and we should also legalise young people who feel that they are under social control and make sure that they have a place to go for help if they are. There we do not see the scarf as the overriding problem; we also see young Muslim women • schoolchildren, adult women who are friends, and here wear some scarf, and others do not. So there has also become in those circles a much more liberal relationship to why you wear a scarf.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122235	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Geertsen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122251	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again raising an important and good debate. As I understand it now, I am not usually the rapporteur in this area, but I have followed with a few months' time since the Danish People's Party wanted to prohibit all public employees from wearing religious headgear when they were at work. At that time, the Left voted against that resolution, and we did so, among other things. because it was our opinion that the ban was an expression of discrimination and not possible to implement within the framework of the Convention on Human Rights and, for that matter, not within the framework of the Constitution. Now the Danish People's Party wants to define the ban so that it is targeted by public employees with direct contact with citizens. I recognise and recognise that religious symbols and clothing can be an expression of negative social control, in other words oppressive in other words, and we must, of course, combat that, but I do not believe that a ban is the solution, and certainly not a ban on clothing. In addition, I do not necessarily share the view that religious symbols and clothing are something that is being advocated. Agitation is typical through words and actions, and citizens must of course meet with what we can well define as a neutral public sector. Last but not least, the proposal raises a number of legal issues, as the Minister has already explained, and on this basis the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122439	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122441	Thank you. Will Mr. Martin Geertsen deny that at some point the Left will be able to support a proposal which might apply to smaller groups if it is defined in a certain way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122501	But I feel myself in the sense that if one can somehow demonstrate that for groups of public servants and their activities in relation to citizens it is a problem with the clothing they are wearing, regardless of what kind of clothing they are wearing, one must of course discuss it. But there has to be some proportionality in this; it has to be a problem for those whom the people in question have to service. But from this point of view, sir. Martin Henriksen has in this debate, I find it difficult to see the Left so full of garbage blowing into it, as I think Mr. Martin Henriksen is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122549	I have no expectation that the Left for full garbage will blow into such a ban. That is why I also have the expectation that, hopefully, when we arrive at a ban at some point, it will happen if it happens, we do not know that it will happen, because there will have to be a lot of time to persuade the Left to do so. I have no doubt at all that it will be with that approach to it. I'd like to invite Mr. Martin Geertsen to take as a starting point those citizens who sincerely feel and believe that it goes beyond their borders when, for example, they feel that they do not want to go beyond their borders. I just think that we could take into account, for example. the patient or the elderly who gets a health care provider or a home helper home. One might also choose to say that then it is the citizen who gets the help and who is in a vulnerable position that we take most account of. I don't think that's a completely unreasonable view, but it could be, sir. Martin Geertsen could reflect on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122710	Well, I am very much reflecting on the health care system and I am also concerned with it in part of my political activities, and it is customary to resolve such things in a memorable way in the individual institutions and in the individual hospitals. So I have reasonable confidence that you can find out in hospitals. Then I just have such an innate desire not to legislate if that is not necessary. It's deep in me, sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122737	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426122750	This proposal, like its almost twin, B 36, which we discussed earlier, is clearly a restriction on religious freedom, namely that part of religious freedom which concerns the right to practise its religion, among other things. by wearing religious symbols, something that most religions in the world use diligently. Such a restriction can be introduced as a community, also with reference to the international conventions ratified by Denmark. However, this requires that one is able to justify why the intervention is necessary. It must be demonstrated that this is necessary for reasons of public security, order, health or morality or the fundamental rights and freedom of belief of others, to quote now the UN International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, paragraph 18. Now I do not feel that conventions are sacred writings which must not be discussed and must not be called into question. They are interpreted all over the world every day. When I quote it here, it is not to express such a complete submission, that is, not to criticise conventions. Of course you can. There must be an ongoing debate on them too. Then we just have to keep them as long as we are covered by them. I guess it's so important to make that clear. But I am quoting it here because I think it is a reasonable starting point for discussing whether, in any given situation, the serious step should be taken to restrict religious freedom. When you look at the comments on this proposal and when you listen to the debate on an almost identical proposal, B 36, you just have to see that the proposers have not made the slightest effort to justify the need for such intervention. All you have to refer to is a measurement of 44 per cent. of the population believe that this is a good idea and that two nurses believe that patients may feel intimidated by health professionals who bear religious symbols. It is therefore not sufficient to restrict freedom of religion, which is a fundamental human right in line with the freedom of assembly. If, at last, there are problems with some civil servants carrying religious symbols, and one cannot, of course, deny that there is or can be, then they must be solved where they arise, namely in the jobs in question and in the meeting between the civil servant and the citizens who may experience it as a problem. I can only praise the civil servants and their managements around the institutions of this country for their way of dealing with this in everyday life. How do I know there are grounds for commendation? Because it is so incredibly few cases that we are presented here in the Folketing, which should suggest that there was a problem. That is so few that I cannot even give a single example. But I have put it this way, because I do not want to be caught in the fact that it has not been there. But it's incredibly few cases. This must be a clear expression of the fact that there is no problem, at least not a problem of a magnitude which justifies us legislating on it, and certainly not with legislation that attacks a constitutional right to freedom of religion. Then I would also like to raise a question. Let us now play, as the health rapporteur for the Danish People's Party put it, that such a proposal was adopted. What negative consequences could this have? Indeed, it could very easily have the negative consequence that there were a number of women who, by virtue of their religion, feel obliged to wear religious symbols such as the Bible. a scarf which refrained from looking for work in the public sector because they would see such legislation as a clear signal that they should just stay away from it. This would have an extremely negative effect on our care for the elderly, to cite a good example. I think it is widely known in this country that a great many women wearing scarf for religious reasons are doing a huge job in the care of the elderly by caring for our older citizens. It would be an extremely negative consequence if we were to get into that situation. For this reason too, we must be glad that the previous rapporteurs and the Minister have been quite clear about spitting, since they cannot support this, even though they did not just use the important reason I gave here at the end. So the Enhedslisten is voting against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123231	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123234	Thank you. This may not come as the big surprise, but I would like to know whether it is basically the position of Enhedslisten that the response to those citizens who feel that it is going beyond their borders, that in a very vulnerable situation they should be serviced by a representative of the public sector, such as the United Kingdom. wearing the Muslim scarf, is that they just have to put up with it? Is that Enhedslisten's answer to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123256	I think there was in my rapporteur's speech that this is something that needs to be dealt with in the specific situation, and there is a management in the companies that have to deal with it. It is clear that my basic view is that it would be a very good idea to recognise the reality that Denmark has become a multicultural society and that not enough legislation will be able to change it. Just as we have learned to live with foreigners who have come to Denmark for generations and have become part of Danish society and have contributed to it on an equal footing with those who lived there already, it will probably also be really, very good for Danish society and also for the individual citizens that one is adjusting to the new situation that has arisen. Everyone knows that many people have come from non-western countries, people with a different skin color than the one who has been the usual in Denmark, people with other cultural habits, other ties to religions. It is a very good idea for humanity to find out how to live together despite the differences that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123406	I know that it will always be a little difficult for the left when you start to include skin colour in the debate. I would urge you not to be so concerned about this from the Enhedslisten side, because there is absolutely no reason for this. What we are talking about here are religious, ideological and indeed political symbols. I put a question to Mr. Finn Sørensen, who I didn't get an answer to. The question was: Is it the position of the Enhedslisten that when a citizen in a vulnerable and vulnerable position feels that it goes far beyond his or her borders to be serviced by a person who, for example, Wearing the Muslim scarf, the local leadership must say to the citizen: You must put up with that, that's how it is? Or is it Enhedslisten's position for mr. Finn Sørensen also said that practical solutions had to be found and that a practical solution had to be found in order to be serviced by someone who did not wear the Muslim scarf?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123502	There is recognition in my rapporteur's speech that people look at things differently, also that there are citizens in this country who can experience it and probably experience it, as Mr. Martin Henriksen describes it. I recognise that, and we must have respect for how each of us experiences each other and the situations that we can get into, even when we are serviced by public servants. But what is the whole basic idea here is that the problems that may arise in the meeting between citizens of different backgrounds, different cultures, different religions, etc., must be dealt with in the situation of the people involved and, to the extent that they are public servants, it must be dealt with by the management there and then a good solution will be found if there is the necessary will to find a good solution from both sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123549	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next item is Mrs Laura Lindahl, as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123558	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance rapporteur could not be here, so I will take this for him. There are, of course, the legal issues that the Minister has already explained. It is like a discussion for itself, where I would say that if you had to go this way, you would, as I understand it, have to assess each job function separately. It's a little messed up. You could do it if you wanted to, but as it is here, it seems difficult just to implement it. In addition, there is, of course, a more fundamental debate on the question of whether the state should interfere in how people in this society dress. We have had this debate in the past. We had it with the burka ban or the masking ban, or whatever we call it. There it was precisely the fundamental debate that we had. And there was my party released. I myself voted against the burka ban because I do not believe that we as a state should interfere in how people dress. And I would say that if we are to begin to legislate and ban symbols that citizens of this society may be offended by meeting with the public, then the list will be long. Because if it is the starting point for the Danish People's Party that there are citizens who feel offended when they meet a public employee with a scarf, then I would say: Well, there are also citizens who feel offended when they meet a public employee with a Che Guevara-T-shirt on. Should we ban it? There may be tattoos, there may be piercings, and there may be anything that people feel offended by. And in this time when we can see that it takes little more than a good classic psalm to make people feel offended, I dare not go out this way at all. It would be a list of one ban after another. So no, the Liberal Alliance does not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123811	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426123825	Thank you. We've been standing here before, and now we're standing here again, and I don't think there's so much that's different. I am in favour of this resolution being different from what the Danish People's Party tabled a few months ago. It may be a long time ago, but it feels like it wasn't that long ago. Our position is the same, it has not changed since then, and we do not, of course, support this resolution either. I would like to ask: what is the problem? I remember when we had the debate last time, I discussed with Mrs Marie Krarup and told her that when my children were young and went to crèche, there were educators with scarf and cleaning assistants in schools with scarf. I never thought of it as a problem. What's the problem? Who's the problem with this? I understand that this is a problem for the Danish People's Party, but I do not think that there are so many other citizens out there who think that it is a problem that you, for example, have to deal with. wears a religious head covering. I sat down there for a question debate with a T-shirt in which Adidas was on, and there I was told that I had to cover it up, because it was not very good practice in the Parliament to advertise a sports company, or what do I know? I wonder how many rapporteurs have not been up here with Mads Nørgaard shirts on etc.? So it's all about the whole idea that we should constantly be subject to the problems of others with what we're going in. Now this wasn't from a religious perspective, but it was just a funny episode. I fully agree with Mrs Lindahl, who was just up here, that we should not legislate on how to dress. To the extent that there are some challenges that create some concrete situations, the management of a public institution must deal with them. It's exactly the same position we had last time, and it's the same position we have again. As Mr. Martin Geertsen also said that we simply should not legislate when there are no problems and I see no problems. Most of all, I see a Danish People's Party that sees ghosts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124038	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124040	I would like to answer what the problem is. The problem is that the Muslim scarf represents an ideology that divides people and even food into clean and unclean. I shall not hide the fact that I think it is a very unpleasant view of human beings, in which it is judged whether women are worthy or unworthy, on the basis of whether they wear a scarf. I do not think that such a view of people, especially women, should be carried into the public sector in Denmark. I'll tell you what. So that's what happens, among other things. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124116	I'd like to answer that. There are so many variants of Islam, as we all know, and there are so many different ways in which the scarf can symbolise how you believe and how you practice your religion. If the rapporteur would argue that all the women who wear scarf and who are Muslims today have the belief that you are dirty, if you are a woman and you do not wear a scarf, then I think he is wrong. We should not judge how the individual who chooses to wear the scarf assesses the act of wearing a scarf in relation to his own personal beliefs. I very much agree with Mrs Karen J. Klint, who said earlier that it is a personal matter, what you believe in, and there must be room for that. If, as a citizen, you come to a public institution where there is a woman with a scarf or if you meet a child with a scarf in a school or in a kindergarten, I don't think you look and say: I want one like that. It is, after all, the whole idea that it should signal women's oppression, which I simply disagree with. Where there may be women who are oppressed, we have to deal as a society, but I simply do not agree that it is a symbol that seems oppressive to women.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124224	Yes, but if you bear a certain symbol, you have made a choice about it, except in those cases where you are forced to do so, but if you have made the choice that you will wear the Muslim scarf, then you choose the symbol and what it symbolizes. I have not heard very many people except a few confused souls, as there are a few of them running around saying that the scarf is an expression of women's liberation. This is not, of course, a point of view which is traditionally put forward in time and prematurely. It symbolises the oppression of women, which symbolises a dark view of how society and people are to be organized. It does! We can also see that in the world where the Islamic rules are fully folded, and we can even see it in some places in Denmark, where the Islamic rules are also fully folded, so that is what it symbolizes, and I think you can say to a public employee: you have to reflect on that, and you have to be as neutral as possible. I know we do not agree with the alternative, but one is allowed to have a little hope that even the alternative can become a little wiser at some point. It was a very naive hope, I can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124333	No, no, but I think we're smart enough. This is also about sometimes just lifting your way up here. I'm in on that for sir. Martin Henriksen symbolizes a woman wearing a scarf, women's oppression, but Mr. Martin Henriksen simply does not make me sign that the woman who chooses to wear that scarf feels oppressed as a woman. There may well be some who are being imposed on the scarf by their men, I am not going to disclaim that, but for the vast majority it is an active choice, and that is because it is part of their religion, and then you link the interpretation and symbolization to what you do privately in your private beliefs, and we should not interfere with that by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124417	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124433	Thank you. We have been here before, as several have mentioned. I come straight from UCplus, the Danish education company, which is part of Arriva and educates bus drivers to speak Danish. There are major problems in relation to the fees for those courses, but this would also mean that we would be missing a great many of them, because then they would not be able to become a bus driver. After all, there is no one who disagrees with us, I believe that we must combat negative social control and that no one in this country must be forced by others to wear a particular piece of clothing or a certain symbol. For we have, and have long had, a provision in the penal code, a ban on forcing people to carry something they will not bear. That is why we also owe it to us to continue to work much harder for more equality and more freedom in Denmark for all groups and, in particular, those who are subject to social control, coercion and violence. So this is where the fight stands for me and for the Radical Left for more freedom and equality and against coercion, oppression and freedom. But we do not do that simply by prohibiting people from wearing a scarf at work. On the contrary, we will then impose a state coercion. It is stupid and it will also divide our society even more. This will be very much the case for certain sections of the population. And then it will send people out of the labour market. It is contrary to the fundamental values we stand for in Denmark to force clothes from people unless it endangers the security of the realm. You have to check at the airport. Nora and Fagrid, who we've been talking to, work as nurses. We need them too. They're wearing a scarf. We need all the skilled sosu helpers who are out there wearing a scarf. They're doing good. Thank you very much. But can you be unfree and wear a scarf? Of course you can be. You can be subject to social control, coercion. Can you be free and wear a scarf? Of course you can. You can be Danish, you can be free, you can be a feminist and wear a scarf, of course. On Wednesday, I was, and I'm sure many of you have tried that out in an election debate. Not long ago, I was offered to go to a nursing home in Rødovre and work one day, so I was. It was a really strong experience, and I had to help the older people too many years ago, but I also talked to many of the employees. They have 17 nationalities employed in this nursing home, and they need each and every one of them. In fact, the greatest challenge they have at all is to provide enough people who can help, that is to say social and health assistants, helpers for our elderly fellow citizens. That is also what the elderly asked for: Be sure now that you can get us enough people; it is amazing social and health assistants we have hired; they are doing very well. I think we should take that from there. All those who fight social control, those who work for freedom and equality, we must take them in hand, and we must welcome them into the fight, because we need to be many, and that applies in many places in our society, and we need to come from everywhere with scarf and without scarf. And this proposal is moving in the very opposite direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124910	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426124928	Many sensible things have been said by my fellow Members in this debate, which I fully endorse. I think it is important that we in the Folketing deal with the real problems in society, that we do not just take up a debate to take up a debate on the basis of some form of value policy or symbolic policy considerations. I believe that it has really been detrimental to the whole integration debate that we are addressing all sorts of issues which really do not have the great impact on how integration is going on. I think that is also the case here. Could it be a problem for civil servants who are in contact with citizens to wear head covering of a religious nature? I guess sometimes it can do that, like Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen said that you can't rule it out, but you deal with it locally. There you have a management that will be able to handle it. You can organize the work in different ways, and what do I know? So you can handle that locally, you also have to deal with it locally, and that is not one of the things we have to go into here by the Danish Parliament. So I think that these proposals from the Danish People's Party are totally missing. I am not going to go into a big debate about whether scarves are women's oppressive or not. I don't think that has much to do with this. This is about whether we in the Folketing should go in and decide and legislate on how working conditions are in the individual public workplaces. We don't have to do that. It is completely against the Danish tradition and Danish model that you do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125119	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125137	When a citizen meets with the public, it is important to feel treated objectively and neutrally. One should not suspect that one is being treated differently from others because one happens to be in contact with an employee who, as a private person, has strong ideological or religious attitudes. These attitudes must be left at home when, as a public servant, you go to work in the morning. That is how it is in most jobs, especially in the public sector, when you have direct contact with the citizen. Of course it has to be that way. That is why I also believe that there are limits to how much people with contact with citizens can sign up with strong religious and ideological beliefs when they are at work. But I do not think that a scarf, for example, is near that border. Women wearing a scarf can be as different as any other. That doesn't say anything about their opinions. That is why it is far too far-reaching to prohibit workers in a wide range of job functions from wearing a scarf. I would like to stress that the scarf as a symbol is women's oppressive. So we cannot avoid that. But it is also important that you do not go after the individual woman who wears a scarf. You can criticize the symbol without coming after the individual woman. We've had a debate on burka before and we have a ban on masking. The Burka is in a completely different way. It's an attitude you're wearing. It's a certain view of women you carry around with you. It is an enormously oppressive mindset that lies behind burka and niqab, a thought that that woman's face can only be shown at home with her husband, and that she must be anonymous, she must be nobody when she steps into society. Of course, as a society, we must take a strong stand against this. But wearing a scarf is for the vast majority something quite different. Furthermore, I believe that it is up to the jobs themselves to lay down rules in relation to what they are for uniforms and clothes, etc. There was an example here recently, where SAS rejected a girl with a scarf. It was in their rules, and there was no problem with that. It was something that the workplace itself decided to do, and so it must be. So, against this background, we Conservatives cannot support the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125417	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125431	Thank you for that and thank you for your contributions, and thank you for the debate. When you are a public servant, you should strive to be neutral. That is a perfectly reasonable requirement. It goes without saying that if you wear the Muslim scarf, you do not appear neutral. It is, no matter what you think about it, a very significant religious, ideological and political symbol. It's kind of one of the first things you see when you meet a person who wears a scarf. In addition, the Muslim scarf represents a set of values, a human and women's view, which is incompatible with representing public bodies in Denmark, because it also represents a set of values, among other things. divide people into clean and unclean, and this is simply not possible as a representative of the public sector. That is the position of the Danish People's Party. As others have said, it is not so long ago that we dealt with a proposal that reminded us of this. That proposal went further, because it was a ban that applied to all public servants. This is for civil servants who have a citizen's contact. In connection with the previous motion for a resolution and the committee's examination of the motion for a resolution B 36, we asked some questions from the Danish People's Party. There the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has obtained contributions from the Minister for Justice, and they have then sent a number of replies to the committee. One of the answers reads as follows, and I will read out from this: 'It must be assumed that a ban on wearing visible religious symbols for all public employees during working hours, including for example: smaller jewelleries, will go too far in the light of the purpose sought by the ban, such as: the need for religious neutrality. Such a ban would apply to all public employees regardless of the work they do in the public sector. It will therefore also affect public servants who do not have direct contact with citizens in their work. It is therefore immediately considered that such a prohibition would not comply with the proportionality requirement under Article 9 (2) ECHR. 2 and will therefore not be justified. From the reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Ministry of Justice to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, it can be deduced that it is religious headgear for employees who have direct contact with citizens. In an article published in Berlingske on 3 March this year, law professor and expert in constitutional law at the University of Copenhagen, Jens Elo Rytteri, expresses that a ban on visible religious symbols based on citizen contact can be an objective argument for a ban. The professor of law believes that it may be appropriate to distinguish between public employees who are in contact with citizens and those who do not. Jens Elo Rytter believes that if a possibility of imposing a ban on public servants is to be appointed, it is here, and he also refers to the fact that there is already a similar ban on judges, because the concern to be neutral vis-à-vis citizens is higher. I would then like to draw the attention of the Danish Parliament to the bill adopted on 29 May 2009 in which Parliament just decided that the legal judges should appear religiously neutral to the citizens, so we already have it in certain areas today. However, we in the Danish People's Party believe that smaller and discreet jewelry such as a cross, a crescent moon or a david star should be allowed, and that way the answer from the two ministries actually suggests that you should do so if you want to introduce it. In the light of the answer given by the Minister to the motion for a resolution, B 36, and what the professor of law has been promoting and his assessments in Berlingske, we believe that there is a possibility of banning distinctive religious symbols and religious clothing for public servants who have direct contact with the citizen. And it is our view that citizens, when they meet a public representative, can rightly expect a certain degree of neutrality. That is the reason for the proposal. I can also understand from what the Minister said that there are still some concerns about legal issues, but I would like to make it clear that this proposal can be implemented. So I would like to urge you not to hide behind the law. In the end, it is a question of political will, and if the government and other parties recognise in such a way that the Muslim scarf is an expression of, among other things. Women's oppression, we cannot then agree that at some point we say that if you represent public Denmark, you should not wear symbols that symbolise, among other things. Women's oppression. We'd like to get rid of that. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125923	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426125940	The debate has been opened and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426130005	Thank you very much. The bill contains a total of eight elements. The first four elements are the expirys of the so-called confidence package of January 2018, which the Social Democratic Party also endorsed. The Minister of Health presented the confidence package as a response to widespread and growing dissatisfaction among health professionals, especially doctors, with the way the Patient Safety Board acted. The dissatisfaction sprang into light in connection with the so-called Svendborg case, where the Danish Agency for Patient Safety accused a younger doctor at Svendborg Hospital of gross negligence and negligence in a case of a 66-year-old patient's death at Svendborg Hospital in 2013. The doctor was acquitted in the Supreme Court in March 2018 after being acquitted of the city court and later found guilty of the High Court. All four elements are sensible and there is also a great deal of agreement in the consultation responses that have been received. It is crucial for patient safety in Denmark that adequate supervision is carried out in our healthcare system. When errors occur, these errors must be learned and, if repeated errors occur around the same health care professional, there must be supervision that can take action. But it must never be the case that health professionals have to look over their shoulders and fear that they will be hanged out and punished for the slightest mistake. We should not have American conditions in the Danish healthcare system. Patient safety is crucial for our patients, but the legal certainty of our employees is also essential for our health professionals to feel safe in the Danish healthcare system and to provide proper treatment. The fifth element concerns language requirements for foreign health professionals in Denmark. The Minister of Health proposes that it be written into the legislation that it is the responsibility of the Regional Councils to ensure that health professionals have the linguistic skills necessary to exercise the position in which they are employed. Today, the regions alone have a more general operational responsibility to ensure the right skills for staff, but no explicit requirement has been laid down in the legislation for the responsible employers to ensure the necessary linguistic skills. Recently there was a lot of discussion about the linguistic and professional skills of foreign doctors in connection with the DR documentary series •The foreign doctors. However, the theme has been continuously up to this period of government, and each time the Minister for Health has relied on local management, which should have the freedom to assess the language competence of the employees in relation to the functions of the specific recruitment. In other words, the Minister of Health is opposed to national legislation requiring doctors trained within the EU, for example in Eastern Europe, to pass the same language tests as doctors trained in a third country, for example India, today to be employed in the Danish health service. It argues that it is more important to speak good Danish if you are a medical practitioner or a psychiatrist than if you are a specialist in clinical biochemistry or clinical immunology. This is also true, but even if you are standing in a laboratory all day long and therefore do not have much patient contact, you still have Danish colleagues with whom you should be able to communicate safely. In the Social Democratic Party we find it crucial that health professionals employed in Denmark can understand what patients are saying and that patients can understand what doctors are saying. Successful communication is an essential prerequisite for high treatment quality and patient safety. The sixth element follows from the agreement in the field of citizenship that we entered into with the government and DF in June 2018. Here it was agreed that a medical certificate should be available in future if, as a candidate for long-term physical, psychological, sensory or intellectual impairments, a request is made for exemption from the requirement for documentation of Danish knowledge and for passing the citizenship test of 2015. This agreement extends to the Health Act, because a unit will then be set up in the Board of Patient Complaints, which a member of the Parliament's Committee on Births will be able to ask for a so-called second opinion on the medical statements submitted in connection with the application for citizenship. If the Patient Complaints Board is asked for a second opinion, the Board must indicate whether it agrees or disagrees with the doctor's assessments and conclusions, or whether it considers that the doctor's assessments and conclusions are inadequate. The seventh element is a legal amendment, as is the eighth element. Social democracy supports the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426130521	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, who is rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426130531	It's always so nice to come as no. If there is such a long legislative proposal with a great many points, then I do not need to repeat what the first rapporteur has been kind enough to say. However, I would say that this bill comes after some tragic events. I don't want to go into details, but a doctor has been accused of carelessness at work. Fortunately, it eventually became exonerated at the Supreme Court. But it triggered during that period that several doctors were doing the campaign... it could have been me. About one out of every three of the country's 30,000 doctors signed a motion of censure to the board, an initiative taken by a head doctor at Odense University Hospital, and then he also later received a visit from the director of the board on a 24-hour shift in the intensive care department to talk about what was happening and what is happening in the daily work. The Svendborg case has been closely followed by the health personnel across the country, and their concern was summed up in a tweet that says: "Tomorrow there will be a verdict in the Svendborg case. And for many doctors there is thus judgment in their future activities as a doctor. Do you dare to remain in a system where you can be judged a criminal for doing your work to the best of your ability in the given framework? I think that puts the whole bill in relief, in relation to the weighting that needs to be made, in relation to patient safety, but also in relation to resources and the doctor's work and the work of other health professionals. So, of course, the question was also: Had the board gone too far, and how can and should one be able to act as a doctor during busy periods? The minister met the two organizations The Medical Association and the Danish Nursing Council, and these points came out of it. The question is, of course, whether that is enough, and I also know that some doctors are asking themselves that question, even if we adopt the bill. So these are some of the things that we need to work on, and at least also after any legislation is implemented. One of the points that we have been particularly interested in is the language requirements of foreign doctors. Because where's the security? So it is alpha and omega that you can understand the doctor who is going to treat you. We have departments in Denmark which have been closed because there have been too many complications, because there have been foreign doctors who either were not skilled enough due to lack of qualifications or could not speak the language. So we want a stricter language requirement. That is also one of the reasons why we are making two proposals next week, together with the Enhedslisten, and I believe that it is on Thursday that they should be dealt with, and in them we are making exactly the same demands on doctors from EU countries as we make on doctors from third countries. I also see that a large part of the consultation answers point out this. It is both Danske Regioner, Dansk Selskab for Patient Safety, Dansk Selskab for General Medicin, Elders Sagen, Danske Patientser og Lægeforeningen, so it is a massive wish. However, I would like to ask the Minister, as Danske Regionser goes out and points this out here, and the Minister also places the regions in charge of hiring these doctors, whether it could not have caused any demands to be made on the health professionals employed, so that they could actually have taken it into account in the years that have gone by. Because I believe that no matter what you employ by staff, you take them for an interview, and there you have some rights to the individual department for what they should be able to do. So I would like to ask the Minister that. I know that the Minister has been asked about this earlier in consultation etc., but I think it is important to point this out here when Danske Regions points out the problem in a consultation answer, because I think: what could they have done themselves? However, of other proposals which the previous rapporteur has mentioned, as I have said, there are proposals on, for example: The Advisory Committee on Supervision and Professional Forum on Patient Safety. I also see that someone has asked whether they are going to overlap, because something we have to be careful about is making so much bureaucracy that we are making so many rules that healthcare professionals have to sit and spend time on behind a computer or on a cross-check or a whole lot of other things instead of taking care of the patient. Because then we don't get that much patient contact. We know that our health services are under pressure, and that is why we must also ensure that there is the weighting for health professionals, so that, in a busy situation too, they can decide for themselves what they have to deal with first and what they can let go on. There are a great many other good proposals, such as demands for instructions and simplification of the procedure for the notification of business doctors and dentists etc. We support the proposal, but we have some questions that we would like to ask and which we hope will then be dealt with, but otherwise it will probably be after an election or something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426131056	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we have come to Mrs Jane Heitmann, who is rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426131105	Thank you, President. Trust is a crucial element in the Danish health service • trust between patient and treats, between patient and health care bodies, trust between colleagues, trust between employees, agencies, employers, managers and politicians. And it was both sad and frustrating last year when we had to admit that the confidence of our health care professionals and nurses in a part of our being had suffered a break. A case from Svendborg Hospital, which ended in the Supreme Court, turned out to be almost explosive, and the accused doctor was acquitted, fortunately. Nearly 9,000 doctors raised serious criticism of the Board of Patient Safety and issued a so-called motion of censure to the Director of the Board, and the Attorney General went into the matter and concluded: "It is not our assessment that the Board of Patient Safety can be criticised for having approached the police in the 62 cases in 2017. We therefore believe that there are no grounds for criticising the increase that has taken place or criticising the fact that there was evidence that the police should be involved in the specific cases. ▪ Let me stress straight away that it can be a fine balance on the one hand to lift the responsibility of ensuring high patient safety and, on the other hand, at the same time to ensure a learning health service, where any one must be able to safely report errors and accidental incidents, so that we can all take lessons from the incident, no matter where or how it has been caused. Our health services must and must be built on trust, learning and dialogue, and at the same time be listening and not condemning. In the Left, we fully support the supplementary package of the Minister for Health, because it was and is absolutely essential that we restore confidence between all parties. With the new Advisory Committee on Monitoring and Professional Forum on Patient Safety, better scope is now being created for dialogue on supervisory methods, practices and professional sparring on learning activities, and I am pleased that both patient organisations and professional organisations will be placed in the Advisory Committee on Supervision, and that the Professional Forum on Patient Safety among others. involve representatives with clinical practice. With the bill here, we also ensure better protection for those involved in a reported accidental incident. A learning health service is also a safe health service. At the beginning of 2018, the Patient Safety Agency set up a working group to look at instructions and working conditions in patient treatment. The working group recommends that we lay down by law requirements for the operator's obligation to draw up instructions. That recommendation we are now responding to and implementing legal requirements that a given operator, it may be a Regional Council or a Municipal Council, should ensure management regulations that specify how employees authorised health professionals and other health professionals should behave in given circumstances, as the legal text states. Now that we are in operational responsibility, we are also tightening up the legislation as regards the necessary language requirements for health professionals employed in the Danish health service. The employer shall be responsible for the necessary linguistic competence of the health professional concerned. And it will always be an overall assessment in relation to the specific position or task solution or the extent of patient contact etc. For us in the Left, it is crucial that people who have patient contact must and must be able to understand themselves in Danish. It's about patient safety. Good Danish knowledge is also needed to pass the birth test. There is a need for a more unambiguous and transparent basis for the procedure. It therefore makes sense that through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration the Parliamentary Committee may request the Board of Patient Complaints to make an assessment of medical statements made for the purposes of dealing with cases of citizenship. It is essential to clarify whether a given person, for example: could pass the language test using aids or extended time or by e.g. testing in your own home. Being Danish also means speaking the language unless there are very special reasons why you cannot acquire the Danish language; it may be that you are ill or you have a disability. The last part of the bill is about doctors and dentists, and with the bill here the government is proposing a simplification of the notification system for business doctors and dentists. Among other things: the amount of information to be provided by a given processing site will be reduced. From now on, for example, the treatment site will be: should indicate the cvr number or authorisation ID and the name of the doctor or dentist in charge of the designated establishment, as well as the name and address of the place of treatment. The Left can support all elements of the proposed bill. And then I should like to welcome the Liberal Alliance, which unfortunately did not have the opportunity to be present in this Chamber today, and to say that it also supports the draft law from that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426131614	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426131623	Thank you for that, President. I might as well say this from the start: the Enhedslisten will vote against the bill as it stands here. We do so because there is one element in this mixed package of initiatives that is completely inedible to us, and that is the proposal for the evaluation of the medical certificate, which establishes a new unit in the Board of Patient Complaints, which can overrule already carried out specialist reports. This is an extremely worrying construction, which is also criticised in the hearings. But I will come back to that. As I said, the bill is a mixed package. There is some that is an implementation of the so-called confidence package from January. The trust package was intended to restore confidence between health care and healthcare staff after the Svendborg case, which justified a high level of insecurity among doctors and other healthcare professionals in order to be able to be brought before the courts by the Board of Patient Safety, even though they were really just doing their job in a healthcare system that is too much, too pressured by a lack of resources. We do not think that the government has been extremely ambitious in terms of implementation. For example: It is quite incomprehensible that the government has not set up an appeal body for both supervisory and appeal proceedings. It was otherwise announced in the context of the trust package, and it is quite natural that another body could be set up. In addition, there are a number of positive initiatives such as the Advisory Committee on Supervision, the Professional Forum on Patient Safety, increased protection when reporting accidental incidents and instructions. These are all excellent measures which will probably not change much, but which, after all, are small improvements. Overall, we would be able to support them. Then there is the proposal for language requirements for foreign doctors. It is a tightening which comes as a result of the resolution previously tabled by Enhedslisten on one's language and qualification requirements, regardless of whether a doctor has taken his education in an EU country or in a non-EU country. Mrs Liselott Blixt, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, mentioned earlier that we have a motion for a resolution in this Chamber again on Thursday which deals with the same subject. That is where she explained very well what this is all about. What is the problem with this proposal is that the government simply wipes off responsibility in regions and hospitals and does not really solve the problem. This is quite unreasonable, especially for those hospitals which already find it difficult to recruit doctors. Should they relax the language requirements, or should they give up having a doctor? In addition, they are subject to an additional administrative burden. After all, what they are ultimately at risk is that it is going to affect patient safety. In addition, it is not necessary to require a given level of language requirements with a language test in hospitals. In the central certification system there are clear character requirements for language skills. That is why, to sum up, it does not solve the problem. It is merely an attempt to transfer responsibility to the individual hospitals. It is not logical that the central licensing system should not be used, which has precisely the expertise to ensure the necessary language and qualification requirements. That is exactly what we have a central authorization system to ensure. Finally, there is the proposal for the evaluation of medical certificates. It is a confirmation of an agreement from last year between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party to set up a unit in the Danish Administration for Patient Complaints, which the Parliamentary Committee may request a review if they consider it necessary for the processing of an application for citizenship. This is totally unnecessary bureaucracy, with the sole aim of making it difficult to apply for citizenship. Medical certificates are being drawn up today if you apply for exemption from the strict requirements of citizenship. Doctors sit conscientiously and draw up certificates designed for this purpose. We should, of course, and have no other reason to trust the work of a patient contact doctor. If there are errors, if there are doctors who do not carry out their duties professionally, there is already a complaint system and a doctor can have the right to practise deprived of medical certificates. But fortunately this is extremely rare because we have a high professional standard with our doctors. Now we want to introduce a new body. It expresses distrust of the doctor's work. A new fee is introduced so that the scheme is financed by all citizens applying for citizenship. This is one of the reasons why the fee is increased from DKK 1,200. for DKr 3,800. In addition, there is the cost of the medical certificates which can now be overruled. That's very unfair. It is a bureaucratic proposal, it expresses distrust of doctors, and it makes it even more difficult to achieve the democratic rights granted by citizenship. In the Enhedslisten we regard this as a completely unacceptable proposal and therefore cannot support the overall proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132109	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132118	I will not go into all the elements contained in the proposal in detail. The former rapporteurs have done so. Overall, in the alternative, we think there are good measures in this bill. However, we think that it raises a great many questions and raises a great many concerns. Especially when we see the consultation answers, a lot of questions are put to several of these elements of the bill. So we will wait for the committee before deciding whether to say yes or no to this proposal. As I said, there are some things that we are very critical of, just as we are satisfied with and think it is good that the focus is on patient safety and safety and safety for healthcare professionals, and that a clear and clear framework is established, for example. for the restriction of the use of reported adverse events. There are also a number of elements to this bill, to which there are almost exclusively positive consultation responses. There are just elements in this bill to which there are very critical consultation responses, which we also take seriously. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned just before me, this applies, among other things. What we're talking about is medical records. And as we see it, there are also some issues relating to the element of confidentiality of doctors. In addition, we also think that there are some issues related to language requirements. Among other things: We note that Danske Regions points out that the language test should be targeted at health professionals. We fully agree, as is also the case in the consultations, that proper and understandable communication between the physician and the patient is important and essential for the course of treatment and safety and patient safety. However, there is also a need to recruit health professionals, and this is also highlighted in the consultation responses. Particularly in the outermost regions, it can be difficult to find health professionals, and we can also see some issues about this. So, as I have said, the proposal contains, in our opinion, some positive elements on improving patient safety and the safety of healthcare professionals, which are also supported by the consultation responses. It is a good thing that reductions are being made, for example. a professional forum for patient safety and a committee focusing on learning and improving health care. But we think there are some elements in what we are questioning and which we think it is necessary to clarify before we can say 'yes' or 'no' to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132446	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132456	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are positive about the part of the proposal that is about strengthening the legal certainty of healthcare professionals and trust between healthcare professionals and the Patient Safety Agency. What I am going to do in my speech here is zoom in on the two things that cause us concern. One thing and the least serious thing is this with the instructions, where there are several consultation answers which indicate that you are concerned that this leads to bureaucracy. But I also think that the Minister is very well-answered, because it has just been done in a working group where the Association of Doctors and others are on board, so that they have done so and, of course, they have done so. So I actually feel relatively comfortable with and can support that part. The second point, on the other hand, is more serious. This is the same thing that several rapporteurs before me have also said, namely that the government is in favour of obtaining such a second opinion on medical certificates when applying for citizenship. And that is not an appropriate solution. Instead, I think we should do it, as among other things. The Medical Association recommends that a medical consultant be attached to the Birth Court office. It has the advantage of being able to get hold of a doctor who has not completed the declaration correctly. It may also have the advantage that if there were to be some of my colleagues on the Committee on Bodily Rights or myself who have some questions, we would also be able to ask them immediately. To be honest, it takes a very long time for many people to get citizenship today. I also think that in many cases it takes an unreasonable amount of time, and I do not really think we can be familiar with doing things that make it even further out. That is why I am going to table amendments to this part of the draft law and, in view of any consideration it may receive, make a final decision on the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132705	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426132712	Thank you. SF is in line with a number of staff organisations and patient associations satisfied that the confidence package presented by the government in January is now being opened in relation to this bill, which my colleagues have already presented very carefully from up here. So, although modest steps have still been taken on the confidence agenda, it is good that we will both increase the legal protection of individuals by reporting accidental incidents and, at the same time, give a boost to learning efforts in connection with accidental incidents. We also think it is positive that the bill will now regulate the professional forum for patient safety, so that the Patient Safety Agency can have a stronger professional sparring about how we can actually learn from the mistakes that are being made in healthcare. It is also positive that this bill finally strengthens the requirements for the language skills of health professionals. One can then discuss, as the hearing answers also show, whether the guarantee of language skills should be in the Board of Patient Safety, but with the adoption of this proposal a principle is at least laid down that the operator now has a special responsibility for the health staff to speak Danish. Unfortunately, however, there are also thistles in the proposal for this kind of thing, which, moreover, is in a completely wrong direction in relation to the trust we should have with our health care professionals in Denmark and therefore we do not think it makes sense that the Board of Patient Complaints in the future should assess medical statements and work with second opinions. Because it is an enormous paradox that we are talking on the one hand about trust in employees and working for patients to be able to trust professionally competent staff when, on the other hand, we cannot find a way to create a basis for doctors to trust each other at least. However, despite thistles, SF believes that there are also many good elements in the proposal. I think I will say straight away that we are thinking that we would like to see the amendment tabled by the Radicals in relation to second opinion, and we are thinking immediately that it might be a proposal that we could support, that is to say that medical consultants might be considered instead of having second opinion, because it would make the solution less bureaucratic. We are of the opinion that we are going to vote in favour of the proposal, but I need us to have these questions put to us in committee and also to discuss whether this task could perhaps be dealt with more rationally and also a little more qualifiedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426133000	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, who is rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426133007	Thank you. Now Mrs Liselott Blixt of the Danish People's Party said that it was sometimes nice to come second when it is such that it is a bill like this, which contains a great many elements and which is a collection of different agreements and packages etc. I would just like to say to Mrs Liselott Blixt that coming as the last one in many ways is an even greater challenge in terms of bringing the debate much new; but, on the other hand, I also feel comforted by the fact that my good colleagues before me on the platform have explained very carefully what is in this draft law, so I will not tire of it any further. All the content of this bill is very well sketched out. And let me say straight away that, of course, we support the proposal in the Conservative People's Party, which will hardly come as the big surprise to anyone. There are several elements in this. A lot of attention has of course been paid to the part that relates to the whole Svendborg case, which has filled a lot and rightly so because it created very great insecurity for very many health professionals. Their ability to carry out their duties was called into question; the security of their operations was called into question. And I understand that the profession reacted to it. It has to be said that the relationship of trust between our health care professionals and the supervision has suffered a severe crack, which is why this new appeal board is so good. I am pleased that there has also been a dialogue with the Medical Association up to the establishment, so that you make sure that this is also something that will work out in practice. Then there is the element in the bill that concerns the language requirement. There we think that it is very good that it is now statutory that the employer has a responsibility to ensure that doctors have the necessary linguistic skills. However, I would also like to be quite honest and say that we too, as Conservatives, would like to be involved in discussing this in the longer term, whether we should make more stringent demands on doctors coming from the European Union, because we must always think about patients. And, for patients, I do not really think it matters very much whether it is a doctor inside or outside the European Union, in relation to the fact that, of course, we should be able to understand and conduct a dialogue, well to feel something that is extremely sensitive and extremely serious for the individual patient. So we would very much like to be involved in discussing this. But we also agree that there is a dilemma in ensuring that the necessary hands are also available, and there we are just challenged. I do not think that anyone hires foreign doctors in Denmark with dubious linguistic skills unless one really has to; unless one has difficulty in getting the staff needed. So it's just a dilemma that we need to keep an eye on in this debate. But we support the Conservatives' side about this bill and the various elements of what has been well outlined in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426133322	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. This brings us through the ranks of rapporteurs. That is why I give the floor to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426133329	Thank you, sir. President. And thank you for the comments on the bill and the basically positive reception of the bill. I am pleased that so many can support the proposed initiatives. I have also noted that some of the rapporteurs do not support this. I believe that the legislative proposal takes some very important steps towards strengthening the legal certainty of healthcare professionals and increasing learning in the field of health care. These are both essential prerequisites for safe healthcare with high-class patient safety. The Government proposes to establish the Advisory Committee on Supervision, which will advise the Board of Patient Safety on the supervisory methods and procedures of the Board and make recommendations for the future supervision of the Board, so that the Board of Patient Safety also learns about the supervisory cases and their supervisory visits. We also propose that the Professional Forum for Patient Safety, which will assist the Board for Patient Safety with professional sparring about learning activities. And then we propose to strengthen the learning effort in health care by extending the circle of people covered by confidentiality, which is protected from sanctions when reporting unintended incidents. These are initiatives which also result from the confidence package that we put forward as a government as a result of the Svendborg case and the situation and insecurity it created. We also propose with the bill a requirement for all operators to ensure that instructions are drawn up at treatment sites that support patient safety. It is also an initiative which stems from the work and the working group that has been set up and which I also experience has been broad professional support for us to better deal with it. In the end, it is also about working conditions that you as an employee have and under which instructions you work, and that you also feel that your professional skills are being remembered. And it is also to respect the limits of professionalism, so that we do not have a task in a situation where we do not feel professionally dressed to be able to carry it out or where no instructions have been drawn up in this area that is clear enough. Patient safety is also about ensuring that healthcare professionals can communicate with their patients. It is therefore also essential that the language skills of healthcare professionals are guaranteed in line with other competences in relation to the recruitment of health professionals. This is, of course, one of the things that we are very much emphasising with this bill, in which we legalise the responsibility of the employer and the operator to ensure the necessary linguistic skills of employees' health professionals. This is, of course, an initiative arising from the debate we had last spring in the Parliamentary Assembly on a motion for a resolution, B 136, which also stems from the fact that very many patients today find that they sometimes meet foreign doctors or health professionals who do not speak a sufficiently good Danish. This is, of course, something that we need to deal with and where we also have to see that it is not everywhere that employers have been equally good. We can see from Danske Regioner's answer that they point out that, for example, we are not going to be able to do anything about it. For a long time at Hospital Lillebælt has had a test of the language skills of the foreign employees who are hired. That is exactly the way to go, namely to take responsibility as an employer. I think we also have to note that the number of requests that come from patients coming from the Elders Case, coming from organisations, still leaves citizens who meet health professionals who do not have a sufficiently good Danish and thus have challenges in communicating clearly and also in creating security for patients. It is, after all, a failure on the part of the employer as it stands today. It is therefore also important that legal responsibility vis-à-vis the operator and the employer, in other words, to ensure that when you employ foreign health professionals, you also ensure that they speak a sufficient Danish. For languages, competence is in line with other competences. As the comments on the draft law show, it is the case that, in addition to the proposed legislative provision, we are included in the draft law, which the government is open to looking at introducing a requirement for national language control of EU doctors. In other words, contrary to what I can hear the Socialist rapporteur standing and claiming from the platform, I can say that this is not correct. That is also what I have said in other contexts. But it is clear that such a language requirement must be proportionate. I have also replied to the Danish Parliament earlier last year on question No. 176 of the Committee of the Regions. That is also part of the answer to e.g.. Enhedslisten's demand that the same language requirements apply, and I also know that this is a view shared by the Danish People's Party. There I would just like to refer to the answer I have given to Question No. 176 to the Committee on European Affairs, where it is clear that it cannot be in line with the rules if you also demand Danish 3 with characters 7, 7 and 10 for doctors coming from other EU countries. That is why it is an assessment of whether, as an EU positive party and as parties that also believe in the rules that we have made together, we also believe that we as a society should follow them. It is about the recognition of each other's educations, which means, for example, that you have to. not as a Danish doctor or nurse seeking employment abroad, may be met by disproportionately extra demands in addition to what we have agreed together. It is therefore clear that the strengthening of language requirements and the introduction of a national language test, which the government is open to looking at, must, of course, be legal in relation to the agreements we have already concluded. I hope that is still the view of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, at least in the past it has been the view of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. I am also taking note of something, because it is a little in contrast to some of the things that the rapporteurs emphasise so regularly, in relation to what the Danish Regions think. Because I also read with interest Danske Regioner's hearing answer to the bill, because Danske Regioner has changed his attitude over the last year on this point. Perhaps this is in recognition of the fact that they themselves have not adequately carried out the task. For when we dealt with the resolution last year, Danske Regionser asked that we do not make a national standard language requirement because it would hinder the ability to recruit the right people for our health care. And there is precisely a difference between whether you stand as a radiologist and not necessarily have patient contact or are in a research position far away from patients, perhaps a short-term position and employment in the Danish healthcare system, or whether you are employed in a position where you have daily patient contact, and where it goes without saying that you must be able to speak and communicate in a proper and understandable Danish language. However, the Danish Regions do not support the introduction of the same language requirements for EU doctors as they do for doctors from third countries. What appears from Danske Regioner's response to the consultation is "and now I quote: Such a test should be tailored to target health professionals." The current test (test, Danish 3) is not considered suitable for the purpose, since it is assessed, among other things. does not test listening understanding and oral communication competence, which plays an essential role in communication between healthcare professionals and patients and relatives. There is just in relation to, like, sticking to what Danske Regioner proposes. It is not an equality of the rules that we have for third-country doctors, and then the doctors who come from EU countries. I think that is perhaps important to highlight, because I have now heard several rapporteurs like saying that this should be the view of the Danish Regions. It is also for just saying that it is not. However, as I said, the government is very open to the fact that we also carry out a national language control of the EU doctors, and then we have to find out how we do it in a way where the requirements also ensure that we do not find ourselves in a situation where a skilled researcher who may have to be in Denmark for 6 months, then suddenly cannot come to Denmark because he does not speak a formal Danish. That is why there must also be flexibility in the rules that the government wants and is already working to put forward. It is in stark contrast to the proposals I hear, which are becoming extremely inflexible and square. In the end, I believe this will be detrimental to our overall health care and, above all, to patients and to the development of our health services. The bill also provides for the adaptation of health rules in relation to the citizenship agreement concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party on 29 June 2018, where it was agreed to strengthen the medical diagnosis in connection with the processing of applications for Danish citizenship. This gives Parliament's Committee on the Rights of the Child an opportunity to ask for a second opinion of the medical information in the case from a newly created unit of the Board of Patient Complaints. Then we also propose to simplify the procedure for the notification of doctors and dentists responsible for business, and also that the person concerned may have access to the information contained in the file necessary for him or her to comply with his or her obligations under the law. Then I also think it is important to emphasise something, because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is standing here from the platform saying that this does not implement the confidence package and that the consultation answers indicate that there is a lack of an appeal board. That is absolutely right, because it is in another draft law that it is in another draft law that has been in consultation up to and including yesterday. And as can be seen from Parliament's legislative programme, it is expected to be put forward here at the beginning of May. That is why what Enhedslisten's rapporteur says is simply not correct: that part has not been accepted by the government. It is, but it is going to take place in an independent legal procedure here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I also hope, of course, that the rapporteur will take this into account in his overall assessment of the draft law. Of course, I am making myself available for any questions that may be raised, and I also hope that the committee will help to ensure that the draft law can be dealt with properly in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134357	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134402	Thank you. I would just like to say at the outset that I actually emphasised that the initiatives that were in the implementation of the trust package did, we could support it. We wanted to be able to go further, and it is only gratifying if the proposal for an appeal board is in a later legal process. We only see this as positive. Now it was mostly because the Minister spent a lot of time discussing it about language requirements for foreign doctors, and I just want the Minister to answer why it is that it is problematic to make language requirements for doctors who have taken their education in an EU country, whereas it is not problematic to make language requirements for doctors who come from a non-EU country. So why is it bad not to be able to speak or be bad at Danish if you have taken your education in India, but not if you have taken your education in Romania? I find that hard to understand at first sight.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134500	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134504	Yes, and what the questioner says is completely incomprehensible. That is certainly not the attitude of the government. The government's position is that all foreign health professionals in Denmark should be able to speak Danish, so it is understandable. However, the question is whether it should be a quadruple national requirement or whether, just as we do with the legislative proposal, we emphasise the commitment to the regions, to the operators and employers to ensure that those who carry out the language control and ensure that you have a proper language. Then, in addition to this, we are looking at the fact that the regions are beginning to assume their responsibilities to ensure that the health professionals employed from abroad also speak a proper Danish • whether we should also create a national language control system and, of course, it has to be proportional to the EU agreements we have made in this area. There I think there is a marked difference between whether a doctor comes from Sweden or whether a doctor comes from India.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134558	I will then just have to ask the Minister to confirm that we are making what the Minister calls square national demands if a doctor has taken his education in a non-EU country. That is exactly what is happening today. There we demand a language test, Danish language 3, with grades 7, 7 and 10. It is, of course, a quadruple requirement that we make to doctors if they have taken training in a non-EU country. So there we are making square national demands, and I am not assuming that the Minister wants to abolish that. I think that is an excellent arrangement, and that is why I am a little surprised, and the Minister himself says that it is incomprehensible. I also do not understand why there should be the difference between what is required of a doctor, depending on whether the training has been taken in an EU country or in a non-EU country. What is crucial must be the ability of the language and of the qualifications you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134640	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134644	I think there's a big difference. When we look at the doctors who are trained in other EU countries, we have jointly agreed on minimum professional standards within the EU circle, and we have also made it possible to make additional linguistic demands on the national side. We are looking at this from the Danish side. If we take a doctor from Pakistan, Denmark has no influence on what the professional content is in that education, or anything else, and therefore I think there is a difference. I know that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of our European cooperation, but we are on the side of the Left and on the part of the government, and we are on the basis that we will have more influence when we jointly, as we have done with the recognition directive, lay down minimum professional requirements for medical education across the EU's national borders. That is why I think it is quite natural that we also have different rules, depending on whether they are nationals of third countries or they are citizens of other EU countries. This does not change the fact that one must of course be able to speak Danish if one is employed in the Danish health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134741	There is a question from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134747	I would like to follow up on the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten because what was asked is the language requirement. It is not the qualifications; let us leave them out and say that what we want is that one can speak a certain kind of Danish in order to be a doctor or other health care professional. There must be the same guidelines you go for, so are the grades 7, 7 and 10 you say it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134822	No, nor would it be in line with the agreements we have made internationally in the European Union in relation to the recognition directive. After all, it is a question of how high language requirements can be asked, so that it is still proportionate that we actually want to support that we can also have stronger cooperation across Europe's borders. That is why, as I have also replied to the Committee on European Affairs on question 176, the assessment is that a language requirement with Danish exams 3 with grades 7, 7 and 10, as applied to doctors from third countries, will not be legal in relation to the recognition directive. What the government, on the other hand, would like to do is to make a language control requirement at national level, including for doctors who come from Hungary or from other EU countries, but who have a level where we ensure that we do not break the common agreements we have entered into in the EU circle on the recognition directive, but which at the same time mean that you speak a proper Danish if you have patient contact. What we also want is to have flexibility in the system. There is no such thing in relation to doctors from third countries. This is what we want in relation to EU doctors, because there is a difference between whether you get a research job for 6 months or whether you are employed to have direct patient contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426134935	I want to go all the way down the ground. I do not want to talk about proportions and what else is, because I think that the citizens who go to a hospital department are completely indifferent to where the doctor comes from, if that is what they need to be treated. But they want them to be understood. I also think that the citizens think that we must think the same thing about someone from Hungary as one from Pakistan. They do not care what country they come from or whether we have made an agreement with the European Union and say that we then allow them not to speak very well Danish. And then all the fine words that the citizen doesn't know about make sense. Well, that's not what this is about. What this is about is that when a patient enters a hospital department, you are met by someone who understands what is being said and understands what is being said. It has gradually become the case that an interpreter is needed to understand what is being said, especially in the region I come from, the Region of Zealand, because there are so many foreign doctors. So you don't understand. Some are met by someone who speaks English. Is it okay because you come from an EU country that you are met by someone who speaks English?
ParlaMint-DK_20190426135035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426135042	When I meet people who have met foreign doctors who have not spoken a sufficient Danish, they do not care at what level the demands are made. They care that the doctor or nurse can speak a proper Danish. That is what is important. That's what I and the government are in favour of. We make some language requirements to ensure that health professionals speak an understandable Danish. In addition, we need to train more doctors so that we get more doctors who speak Danish in a way so that it is not a language barrier that suddenly becomes part of the discussion. That is why there is both a long-term lead to training more doctors in Denmark, where we have taken some initiatives, and there is of course also one here and now initiative, which is both the draft law today in terms of strengthening the obligations of the regions and at the same time also looking at creating a national language control, but a flexible one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426135130	I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190426135146	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 30 April 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
