ParlaMint-DK_20191003100047	Things are open. Henrik Sass Larsen (S) has informed me that he resigns as a member of the Folketing per year. 30 September 2019. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Mogens Jensen): Bill no. L 28 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on veterinary surgeons. Bill No. L 29 (Proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural Support Act. Bill No. L 30 (Proposal for a law amending the law on ecology and animal welfare. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 31 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on water supply, etc.) Minister for Economic Affairs (Simon Kollerup): Bill No. L 32 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Marketing. Bill No. L 33 (Proposal for a Law amending the Procurement Act. Minister for Health and the Elderly (Magnus Heunicke): Bill No. L 34 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on access to health care and health care. Bill No. L 35 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Scientific Treatment of Health Scientific Research Projects, the Health Act and the Law on Access to Complaints and Compensation in Health Care. Peter Skaarup (DF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Pernille Vermund (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 4 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a Danish Climate Law now (Citizen's Proposal)) and motion for a resolution No. B 5 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of the minimum age of 18 years for the genital mutilation of healthy children (citizen proposal)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on business promotion and support 2019. R 3). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. So let me say that today's opening debate will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003100301	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Social Democratic Party in Sjællands Storkreds, Tanja Larsson, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing from 1 October 2019 onwards, after Henrik Sass Larsen has resigned on 30 September. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003100325	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 125 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB, LA and SP) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's position has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003100356	I would point out that one hour has been allocated to each rapporteur, if there are enough questions for the rapporteur. And then you can start to calculate when we have the opportunity to end the day. But we'll start the negotiations, and we'll start the negotiations with Mr. Simpson. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003100435	The Danish Parliament is now taking up legislation again with new ministers and a new majority on top of the election campaign four months ago. Welfare was high on the agenda of that election campaign. Do we give our elders proper and dignified care? Is there enough time in health care? Are there educators enough to take care of our children? Why make annual cuts on education that affect young people? Climate, environment and nature also came high on the political agenda, and when we see the problems before us, we have to say that it was about time. On constitutional day, the Danes spoke at the ballot boxes, and their speech was clear. It was time for a new majority and a new government after 4 years of discussions on lower top tax, on higher retirement age, on throwing off the Danish green driver's shirt and on underfunding of the common welfare. Denmark has got a new direction and a social democratic government that will build on the values that have made Denmark perhaps the world's best society. Politics must make a difference and the election of the voters in June makes a difference. This is clear after the first months of work and after the Prime Minister's opening speech on Tuesday. Politics is important, but the greatest of all is love, as you know. Currently there is a very popular program running in Danmarks Radio, •Married at first glance. I'm sure you guys know it. Different people get married to another person they've never met before, and then try to make it work. It's hard, it's very difficult, because none of them know what the new spouse stands for. I remembered that programme when I followed the national meeting of a major Danish party on television a couple of weekends ago, which I think will be celebrating next year. The groom, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, had dressed nicely. He had cleaned his nails and polished his shoes, and he had also written a speech. However, as the experts in the Married at first glance always reminds us: The wedding is the easy part, the difficult starts when everyday life hits. We have heard the cheeky remarks and seen the crooked smile, but who really is the groom, and what does he stand for? Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen was previously at odds with his party in protest against the Danish People's Party and the tone of the foreign debate was enough. But what does Mr. Mr Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Is it still something other than Mrs. Inger Støjberg? And after only underfunding welfare in Denmark over a number of years, in the election campaign, the Left proposed a welfare boost of 69 billion. kr. to the Danes, but now Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen had wool in his mouth. So what does the Left really think about our common welfare? The President of the Left is claiming that his party as something new must be furiously ambitious in the area of climate change. Yet he does not support CO2 by 2030, but is left on the platform among the last. So what does Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen and the Left actually about the climate today? The new President of the Left himself explained to the press that he was elected without a political mandate. Even the members of the Left do not know where you have the President. Everyone talks about it, but nobody knows. Congratulations on the election and with each other. It's gonna be exciting to follow. Social democracy will put welfare first. Take health care: This is where the race gets really strong, and even though sosu's, nurses, doctors and other health workers run as fast as they can, there is something that is missing. It's time. That's why we want to hire 1,000 more nurses in public hospitals. Development must be reversed. The draft Finance Act contains money to hire 1,000 extra nurses, as we said before the elections. Now we're on our way. Everything is not just solved at once, but progress is being made. You don't have to take our word for it. The chairman of the left Regional Council in Southern Denmark, Stephanie Lose, said so well. The biggest health boost in the last 10 years was what she called the government's agreement with the regions on their finances for next year. As the Prime Minister also mentioned in his opening speech the other day, the important basic trust is under pressure. This is among other things. Therefore, the draft Finance Act starts to repair on two of the main pillars of our society that we must be able to trust: the tax administration and the police. The tax administration has known and very serious problems with debt recovery, with property valuations, with inadequate control. There is a need for a recovery of our tax administration. The money had not been dropped by the previous government. That is what we are proposing, and we are addressing what the Social Democrats have said about strengthening control. With the financial bill, we will create a new tax centre and make life difficult for the crooks who cheat the community, harm law-abiding competitors and, in some cases, spend the money on crime. It's 250 more employees for control in the IRS. The police are another example. The processing times have become far too long, and the police are dragging around a huge hump overtime • problems that the previous government had not set aside money to deal with either. We will avoid the serious cuts that would be the consequence without a new appropriation and make an extraordinary cut in the saved overtime hours. The Danes' speech was also green in the parliamentary elections: We must take the climate challenges seriously. In the Finance Act you can, among other things. see it reflected by 1 billion. kr. more to green research. Together with our support parties, we have set one of the world's most ambitious reduction targets, and by Christmas we will have a climate bill negotiated and a climate action plan followed. The Danish Industry and pension funds also back up. It is good that both the Conservative, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have now joined the climate struggle constructively by supporting the overall goal of a 70% reduction. of greenhouse gas emissions in 2030. Let us hope that the Left, who painted its logo green for a short time last year, will at some point follow suit. The election established the majority for the fundamental policy of foreigners in Denmark, and the Social Democrats stand guard over it. The foreign policy must be strict but not crazy, and it is therefore a bit crazy that Mint has not been able to get home, that the children in Soulsmark have not had to eat food with their parents in their room, that one had the idea to set up an exit center on an island in Stege Bay, where an overnight stay would cost the same as an overnight stay in a better hotel, and that forces should be used to create and keep a counter running on the Foreign Ministry website over the number of tightenings. There is broad support for the fundamentals of foreign policy, and we are firmly committed to a strict immigration policy where we receive no more than we can integrate, and let us have an open debate on where common sense is needed in the rules. As a rendjyde and haderslevboy, I am pleased that all Denmark has now come on its first name with a brewery worker from the excellent brewery Fuglsang in Haderslev. I am also pleased that it took nothing but a change of government until the bourgeois parties also became impatient after it became Arne's turn. It is amazing what fresh air and a trip in opposition can do. Then we must hope that the bourgeois impatience can last right into the negotiating room, because when a model can be finalised to negotiate on the basis of collective bargaining, it is only a question of political will that stands in the way of no conciliation law. The previous government fought hard to raise the retirement age more and more quickly than was planned, while this government will fight tirelessly for a right to early retirement. To the Danish People's Party, the Left and other parties that have agreed to do away with the early retirement, I would say that you owe now. You degraded the opportunity for a dignified withdrawal by worn out groups, and now comes the opportunity to rectify. The government is obviously dependent on being able to obtain a majority here, as we will be in all other areas. We have only the 48 seats of the Social Democratic Party, and there is a piece to 90, and that is why we must of course have other parties. We want to communicate broad cooperation in the Folketing and see good opportunities for it in many areas. As the Prime Minister said, we should strive to be the best version of popular government and also benefit confidence in politics and politicians in that way. There is a time for campaigning, we have had it, and of course the debate must always be there, because it is necessary, but there is also a time to work together, first and foremost, on the progress of our welfare societies and on an ambitious green transition. It is now, in my opinion, and the Social Democrats are looking forward to it and the new assembly of parliaments. Then I would like to finish by reading out a proposal for adoption from the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is support for a new and fairer direction for Denmark. The Folketing supports a policy that makes Denmark the world's best country to be a child in, invests in education, takes hold with the growing mental vulnerability, ensures more care in health care, and that everyone can look forward to a dignified old age. As part of this, the growth of public consumption must cover the demographic features and prosperity gradually. The political ambitions for climate, environment, biodiversity and nature must be significantly increased both nationally and internationally, including: with a new, ambitious Danish climate law with a goal of 70%. reduction of greenhouse gases by 2030 and a climate action plan. The Folketing wants to strengthen the social model that has made Denmark one of the most trusting countries in the world, reduce economic inequality and centralisation, create development and jobs throughout the country, promote integration and ensure common sense in foreign law. • V 1). Those were the 150 words.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101426	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. I can say straight away that the time allocated will be spent. Some people will probably be disappointed because they will not be able to speak. But we'll start with Mrs. Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101441	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur, who in many ways continues the style of the Prime Minister's opening speech...
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101453	We're gonna need to get some audio on. I think we're having trouble with the sound. Thank you, thank you, this is a good start!). I can reassure you that the next one is Kristian Thulesen Dahl, but now we start with Mrs Sophie Løhde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101505	We can do multitasking. I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on continuing in full the trail of the Prime Minister's opening speech with a lot of fine words and a little gloomy predictions, but by the way, no concrete answers at all, which otherwise was no problem to deliver before the parliamentary elections. One of the things promised by the Social Democratic Party was to save 3 billion. kr. a year on consultants in the public sector, who would instead like to spend on welfare. Yesterday we had the first draft budget of the government, so I would like to ask the rapporteur: how much money is being saved on the budget law on consultants?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101545	We cannot do the same as the previous government, which published some figures. Was it 5 billion? kr., Mrs. Sophie Løh himself was about to report that you could just use it in political agreements? It doesn't play that way. We'll know that I'm a different style, but that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101619	Mrs. Sophi Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101620	Excuse me, that's bullshit. We have not promised to save 5 billion. kr. at consultants before the parliamentary elections, even when we were in government. Social democracy promised to save 3 billion. kr. per year on consultants to be used for welfare. That's it. Now we got the government's financial bill proposal yesterday. How many billions of dollars on the Social Democratic Finance Bill are being saved specifically on consultants in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101650	I just need to make it clear to Mrs Sophie Løhde that we are going to save these billions of dollars on consultants, and we want to cooperate with the Left on how we can spend that money better. It's just something different than when Mrs Sophie Løh himself toured with this, stood up and said to the municipalities: there's an amount of 5 billion. kr., we can fix that. They felt that there was nothing in the proposals made by Mrs Sophie Løhde and the Ministry of Finance. Then we'll have to call it a wrinkle unit. I think, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen made a very good call to his party to become a broad and happy bourgeoisie, who will not be wrinkled or angry, and who will debate without the undertone being that you are an idiot if you think otherwise. That is a request I would like to pass on to Mrs Sophie Løh today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101735	We've had some unrest up here because there have been some technical problems, but I think we have it under control now. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101741	Thank you, sir. President. I thought that the advantage of being such a socialist minority government was that in the games that came, you could see what the policy of the Social Democrats was. But now I have learned that when there is such a financial act, everything that is not included, but promised in the election campaign, is left out, because you then expect others to demand it in or something like that I cannot quite figure it out. I actually thought that in such a draft budget we could see the policy of the Social Democratic Party when you were a one-party government, but we have become more aware of that. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Jesper Petersen on, is in relation to Arne, because I share both the joy that Arne has become the centre of the political debate and the eagerness that Arne must also be told whether he is entitled to a three-year old pension. Now I understand that Arne seems to prefer to be one of the 280,000 Danes who pay for the early retirement, and I do not quite know how the Social Democrat will explain Arne that he should forget it because he is going to be on a retirement pension three years earlier. But if we now agree that it is so important that the worn out actually receive answers, Mr. Jesper Petersen then doesn't explain to me why Arne and everyone else should wait until next summer to find out what the Social Democracy wants in relation to Arne and all the others worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101852	Well, if it was easy, we'd have done it. We put forward a set of principles as to what we would have a right to early retirement should be, because we think that in the agreement, among other things. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was involved in the process of abolishing the post-retirement pay for future generations, and where we have also seen that the figure for who is still away has become very small.Some groups have been hit, who are not given the same opportunity to retire while they are healthy and bodily and still have some good years with their grandchildren. And it is now presented what the process must be like. Right after the summer holidays, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment met with the social partners. They are now negotiating agreements for which they must be at peace, and they have also asked for that, but in the spring there will be a model that we can negotiate on, and there we very much hope that the Danish People's Party will back up so that we can actually introduce this right. It's not that we say it's on the flat, but we actually do. Some more mandates are needed, and that could well be the Danish People's Party; I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101954	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003101956	Well, sir. Jesper Petersen doesn't hear that this is a little mysterious? So, on the one hand, it is said that it is absolutely crucial that it is important because the worn out have such poor conditions, and now they must have some improved conditions, but on the other hand they say that we can then perhaps see a model for next summer. I understand that the new Prime Minister, when he took office, said that this was something that she herself wanted to work with every single day, because it is so important. But if there is something so important, and there are so many people in our homeland who have such poor conditions, why can it be that you can only show up with a model for the rest of us about what you have in mind next summer? Why on earth can't you think of it tomorrow or next week or in a month? Why does it have to take until next summer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102045	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102046	Because it is not easy to introduce it, what we have said from the outset • it cannot be new to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I understand that the Danish People's Party's website has created such a kind of counter, and if it is an expression of saying yes in advance that one would like to support such a right that one agrees that there is no conciliation law in the way that one can do that, then I would be so glad that it has emerged from this debate today. But so far it has been a little shocking where you actually had the Danish People's Party. And may I just say that the only reason why we have this debate now is that we are serious and we are going to implement it with the support of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102124	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102126	First of all, congratulations to Mr. Jesper Petersen with the new title of political rapporteur. I have looked forward very much to today's debate, not least because we have prepared a proposal for adoption, which Mr. Jesper Petersen also read out, among which it among others. It is clear that the majority behind the proposal for adoption will focus on training. And we have been preparing this proposal for adoption for some time now, which is why I think we were a little surprised to see that yesterday's financial bill was not what we had dreamed of, at least like many others: the first financial law in five years, when there were no savings in education. For there were savings in primary school, there were savings in free schools and there were savings in university humanities and social sciences. And I'm just gonna ask sir. Jesper Petersen, what matters: is it the draft budget or the proposal for adoption that we are going to adopt later? Should we invest in education, or should we save on education? What is the policy of social democracy when it comes to education?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102229	Well, we're gonna have to invest in education, we're gonna have to. And the election campaign was one of those things. much on that subject and on stopping the re-priority contribution that has been running for the last four years, while the other side was in power. Was it 7.9 billion? kr. together, has been saved by means of the re-prioritisation contribution over the four years? It ends now. We have set aside 700 million. kr. next year alone for that priority. So, yes, we have to invest in education and we will have good cooperation. This is clear from both the understanding paper and the proposal for adoption and also from the draft budget, I think we are doing so absolutely. Then there may be other and further requests, and we would very much like to negotiate them with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102310	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102313	Yes, but it has to be said that if people are to have confidence in us as politicians, there must be a connection between what we write down, what we say, what we went to the polls and what we do in concrete terms. And if the Social Democratic Finance Bill that came into force yesterday is implemented, then it must be said that education has not been targeted but has been spared training. And I assume that a draft budget is being tabled because it is being adopted. I can just say that we will then have a discussion on this, because we will not save on education and vote for it. It is a good thing that savings are stopped, but I do not understand what is meant by cutting back on primary schools, free schools and on selected university educations if what we are going to do is focus on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102358	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102400	Fortunately, we have some priorities. It was important for us to abolish the re-priority contribution, as we said in the election campaign. In fact, we also said during the election campaign that we believe that it can be downgraded to levels similar to those that were earlier when it comes to free schools. That's exactly what it was all about. Then there is a grant that runs out when, among other things, it runs out. is about humanist education, as Mr. Morten Østergaard is coming forward. After all, we must have a discussion on whether the appropriation that expires should be refilled. There is an opportunity to take part in a debate on finance law. This is an important priority for the Radical Left, but then we will have to discuss it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102438	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102440	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for your cooperation on a very good understanding paper, which sets a new direction for Denmark, and also thank you for a good proposal for adoption. In the SF we are a little before the election campaign and during the election campaign there were historically large demonstrations, not only in Copenhagen and Aarhus, but actually in a lot of provincial towns around Denmark. Parents who had not previously engaged in politics went on the street with the message: Where is an adult? because they saw that there were not enough adults in the day institutions for their children. There are studies that show that on average one hour a day an educator is left alone with a group of 17 children. There were documentaries before the election campaign, but also during the election campaign, who showed that the educators did not feel that they could reach all around and give the care that the children need. So now it's time for us to adopt minimum standards, just as we have agreed in the understanding paper. And that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Jesper Petersen: Why isn't a single penny set aside in the financial bill for settings?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102550	Thank you for the good words in the introduction; I would really like to return them to the SF, since they have been so insistent on putting this whole area around children on the agenda for a long time. The good words also deserve to be given to other parties and trade unions and others. In fact, I think it has been a little overlooked. As a father of young children, I myself also find myself encountering some of the problems that are being pointed out. We have agreed on the understanding paper that we are going to introduce minimum standards. The National Association of Municipalities has not been so enthusiastic about the idea, but we have, in the agreement that has been made with them, taken up the idea that this is the way we should go. We will have it introduced from 2025 there we will be in line with the model we can agree on. And that is something we must discuss. There are means to negotiate in the Finance Act for the welfare area. After all, there have been many wishes there were others from Mr. Morten Østergaard a moment ago, and there are other good wishes too. We have to discuss this. I understand it's 0.5 billion. kr., SF thinks it's about. I am sure the Minister for Finance has noted that it has been played out, and then the discussion must continue from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102655	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102657	It is true that there has been a discussion on minimum standards. SF believes that there is a need to ensure that whatever day nurseries are involved, no matter what kindergarten they are around in the whole country, there are enough adults. However, money could have been set aside for norms. The Social Democrats could well have said, even if you are not a big supporter of minimum standards, that we are now giving priority to some means of setting standards. The Social Democratic Party had an issue before the elections, which was called "Always on the children's side," where it was actually suggested that money should be set aside for nominations. So isn't it a little crooked to put forward a financial act where there isn't a single crown for pre-settings in nurseries and kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102739	I would like to say two things in response to that. One thing I think must be about the municipal agreement. After all, it is up to the municipalities to deliver it. And a municipal agreement has been made now, which promises their economy by more for one year than the previous government did together in 4 years, more than the additional costs that come by increasing older and more children are added. This offers some opportunities to improve, for example. The standards there. Then we will have to discuss it in the Finance Act negotiations, and that is where we invite the SF to take part in giving priority to the funds available: should this apply to the norms? How much should it be? Are there any other issues that you would like to include? And I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102817	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102821	Thank you. I would also like to thank you very much for your speech, for your understanding paper and for a good start, I think, on a new majority. One of the things we have already started negotiating is not the Finance Act, but a new Climate Act, in which, as the rapporteur also mentions in his speech, we have committed ourselves to making one of the world's most ambitious climate laws with a target of 70% reduction. by 2030 at the latest. I am really, really proud of that and I am glad that we continue to stand by it and that it apparently also infects others in the Chamber. At the same time, therefore, there is a discussion on another important subject of climate change, namely the North Sea oil. I was on a climate march here a few weeks ago, along with a great many of the young people who have fought the 70-percent reduction target all the way into the Parliamentary Chamber, I think you can give them credit and who are now shouting at the Socialist climate minister because they want him to stop the eighth round of calls for tenders in the North Sea. The question of whether we should look for new and more oil than has already been found is therefore a long-term decision. I would just like to know what the Socialists really think about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102939	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003102941	Thank you for your good cooperation, including on the climate. After all, the financial bill here also brings it up, and there is more to be done in the negotiations that will be there. Green research is an example here. And also when it comes to the environment, there is progress. As far as North Sea oil is concerned, this is not a simple decision. It's pretty wide range. And there we are in the process of clarifying: the preparatory work that is being done in connection with the decision that has been taken to give them the opportunity to see what can be done. But the government will consider this carefully and of course also do it with the climate glasses on to see what the consequences will really be about to have to continue an eighth round of invitations to tender. Then we will take a position when the work and assessment are done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103029	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103030	If I may be so free, I would say that I actually have a little difficulty understanding why it is not a simple decision. We are sitting here today negotiating a really ambitious but also absolutely necessary climate law and then a climate action plan. And one of the things we are going to stumble over is that there were some people who sat in here 16 years ago and decided not only to look for new oil and gas, but also to give some to put it quite insane compensation agreements. It was the right wing, unfortunately, along with the Radical Left, and that means that the task we are now facing is really much harder. Is it not quite simple not to make such a bad decision again on behalf of future generations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103114	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103115	I do not think that difficult choices should be made simply. I suppose one of the points in the Prime Minister's speech the other day was that people should not be given the impression either. As in all other decisions, we must assess that decision thoroughly, in relation to what consequences it will have. This is both when it comes to climate, economy and security... about all the things that need to be included in such a decision. There you will hear from the climate minister when the reflections are finished and when there is a proper basis for making a move.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103147	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103148	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Denmark has got a red government with a blood-red parliamentary basis. That's all right, because that's what the people want, and then we'll have to fold our heels together. But that should not stop us from discussing the policy and seeing whether we can change our minds a little. Welfare first, I heard. That is very good, but it is even better to be able to put welfare first if there are some who create it. And if there's one thing my blood pressure and temperament can barely have to do with, it's this tax on the generational change of businesses. I cannot understand why a party that calls itself a working party believes that it should be taxed when a company is transferred to the next generation, which happens without anyone losing anything, so there is no one filling their pockets; it is just a matter of keeping the money in the company. Why is it so important for the government to take capital out of companies to put the money in the treasury instead of doing something good for the creation of jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103257	In other words, given how many years we in Denmark have actually had governments, of which the Conservative People's Party has in several cases also been a part, which, as something completely natural in line with what has been done in other countries, has had taxation on the acquisition of ownership of companies, it is a little strange that it should be something completely new, insurmountable and strange to have in a country that actually is not. The wise men mean, for example. not really that there are economic arguments for having this particularly low tax rate or completely eliminate it if that is what you want to inherit a company. We would very much like to have a discussion on how the conditions for paying it should be: should have several years to pay it or whether you should have greater certainty as to what the company will be valued for. I think that is a sensible and pragmatic view, and we are happy to discuss it. But like all other Danes, when they receive an inheritance over a certain amount of money, we also believe that tax should be paid when you take over ownership and thus the values of a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103401	Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103402	But the world doesn't stand still. Danish companies are constantly challenged on the competition. Now I know, for example, that both Mr. Jesper Petersen and I have been chosen in some places in Denmark, which you will probably call Production Denmark, where there are very, very many jobs created, and you can ask yourself where the people go if they no longer have that company to work in. Then what I'm saying is that if you took the money out to yourself, you'd be heavily taxed, and that, of course, is what you have to do if it's about your private assets just getting bigger. Then it's fair enough that we pay taxes. But this is just about the company going from father to son or from father to daughter, and nothing else happens. Then you choose to say that money is being taken out of the company. Why is it so important to drain those companies from capital? We have heard companies say: we cannot run the business any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103449	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103452	That discussion, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen starts, about Produktionsdanmark, about a good business that has contributed to Danish economy and jobs, I think is a good discussion to take. But economically speaking, the inheritance tax is not what makes the difference. We have the wise men's word for that, and the OECD recommends that you have an inheritance tax. It is fair that there is, but then we must have some conditions that are reasonable for it. No, let us invest in education, research and qualified employees and do some of the things that strengthen our business and their competitiveness. That's what this has to be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103533	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103535	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur for the speech and start of this day, which hopefully gives a very curious debate in a new Assembly on the work of a new government. I should therefore like to return to some of the points raised by Mrs Pernille Skipper, namely the North Sea. I think that the Social Democratic Party, as a parliamentary group, must also have some opinions on this and not just go and wait for the executive, that is, the government, to decide what it thinks. When does the Social Democrats' parliamentary group believe that we should shut down the tap in the North Sea? When are we going to be fossil-free and not keep sucking oil out of the underground?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103615	Fortunately, as long as we now have a one-party government, we are in a slightly different situation from that of the last parliamentary term. At that time, there were quite a lot of clouts about what was the attitude of the party and the government respectively. We have little difficulty in finding out how to proceed. It must therefore be the case that, before making such a fundamental decision that will have consequences, one is allowed to think about as a government and as a party before one can determine what one thinks it should be. You could have made that decision 20 years ago or 30 years ago, but it was not simple at that time either. It is, after all, large billions of dollars that it has been about, jobs and that other countries are also producing oil. So, what will the consequence be of a Danish decision? That's what we're gonna find out. I can assure you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that we want to wear the same climate glasses in the resolution that we have in others. There will be an initiative from the climate minister, and then we will have to take the discussion when we have a proper basis for taking it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103719	Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103721	But it is not just 20 years ago that you should have taken a position on this, you could also have taken a position 11⁄2 years ago when you signed that the eighth round of invitations to tender was a great idea. So we had to go out and offer new land in the North Sea to go on oil hunting in. That is really what I am just asking: when you have a 70-percent reduction target by 2030, what does it mean for when we no longer have to go on oil hunting, but actually use our natural resources, use the wind, the sun for energy instead of going and doing this oil adventure, which there are big discussions about whether or not there is any money at all. In other words, when you look at the most recent answers I have received to questions, the figures vary with many, many billions of dollars, depending on the oil price scenarios used.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103810	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103812	If the latter is true, the decision will be easier to make, you might say, but it has to be assessed. We want to have a 70-percent target in Denmark. We would like to be CO2 At the same time there is also a world market for oil and for gas, which we will also need for a period of time in our energy system until we have enough renewable energy until we can store and all that stuff. We're not determined where this is going to land. I'm just trying to give the impression of what kind of considerations and dilemmas there must be here. We want the climate glasses on, as I said, I can assure you, but we need to think carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103853	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103857	Thank you for the floor. Social democracy has made it clear that the current asylum system is not working; that the Social Democrats want to introduce a new asylum system. - Sir... Jesper Petersen explains how long the Social Democracy and Government will wait for the EU before the government secures Denmark with a new asylum system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003103921	No, I have no date for that and, as Mrs Pernille Vermund knows, it is also a slightly larger project. Nevertheless, we mean it. In other words, it is not a good way we have an international system of asylum applications today; it is not. Now there have recently been some new stories that Greece is again beginning to have difficulty dealing with it. That is also one of the reasons why we maintain border controls and so on. We need to be aware of the challenges that exist. We would still like to go where it is not who has paid a human smuggler or who dares to take the risk, in other words who is going to pass it through North Africa and all the atrocities that many people are being subjected to in this context that determine who is coming to Europe, but where we are really getting a much more humane and fair way of doing these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104016	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104017	As Mr. Jesper Petersen says, the pressure is currently increasing in the countries of southern Europe, and it has to be said that with the asylum system that we have now, we are in fact as fragile as we did in 2015, if there is pressure that is just approximately similar to what we had at the time. Because when you show up at the Danish border today and say asylum, you get access into the country. Many people go to the Sandholm camp, but there are also many who disappear into the country. That is why I would like to ask once again: does Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party is not that it is to take due care to speed up the process of securing a new asylum system for Denmark and securing Denmark's future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104104	The sooner, the better. As the Prime Minister himself stressed in his speech the other day, it is not something that has just been forgotten; it is a pretty fundamental thing for us to change this. This requires cooperation with other countries and there are discussions with others. And hopefully we get to where we have a system that is significantly more humane and fair. All right, there's some movement now. I would just like to make it clear that, compared with Denmark in these years, there is a fairly sharp reduction in how many people seek asylum, apply for family reunification, etc. These are quite different figures from just a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104142	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104145	Thank you for that and thank you for the fine pronunciation of the surname, by the way, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. The Prime Minister said on Tuesday that it is simply free choice that creates bureaucracy in the public sector, for example in the area of cleaning, because then you have to go down to minimum minute numbers and define how long you have to vacuum. Could we not just avoid making such a detailed project plan as to how the cleaning should be carried out? That is a bit like me having to go to the bakery in the morning and buy breakfast, having such a long recipe list and an ingredient list with which to follow in detail, instead of just having confidence that I will get a good product and would choose a competitor if I am unhappy. - Sir... Jesper Petersen imagines that the only bureaucracy that is necessary when there is free choice in the area of cleaning, for example, could be a questionnaire for the citizen asking how satisfied one on a scale from 1 to 10 is with cleaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104238	I think it is a fascinating idea to take as a starting point what the individual sees as quality in that situation, and we must take that into account in the discussions. I do not hear the Prime Minister say at all that free elections must go away, but is open about the situation, that is, when you have to make very detailed demands in order to make tenders etc., then it will be so. It has costs and also leads to a whole lot of documentation requirements. It may be cleaning, it may be elderly care, it may be other things. But a good command from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, and let us take that into account in the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104324	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104325	Thank you for the constructive answer, and the pronunciation of my name was also fine. There should be no objection to it, and otherwise we will all have ample opportunity to practice for the next four years. But that's the part about making things clear that I came from. Can the rapporteur give a guarantee that the government will not restrict the Danes' free elections, but will rather focus on debureaucratising freely the electoral area and the public sector in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104359	What the Prime Minister said was not a proposal to abolish free elections. It was an openness about the dilemma that lies there and the consequences it has when it is introduced and it does so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104411	Then it's Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104414	Thank you very much. Thank you for your speech, too. And also thanks for the involvement in the whole process of understanding paper. In IA, we are very pleased that there are ambitious targets in relation to the climate. We also note that Greenland is referred to as ground zero in relation to the consequences of climate change, so we also hope that, despite Greenland's own responsibility for the climate area, it will be possible to cooperate and also include the part that concerns the Arctic in the forthcoming climate action plan. One thing the rapporteur did not mention in his speech is the police. And something that we in the IA would like to remind you of is the responsibility of the police in Greenland, because there are at least as great challenges as there are for the police in Denmark. And we are faced with massive recruitment and retention challenges, so I would like to hear: is this something that the government is willing to look at in the forthcoming negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104513	Yes, of course we have a share of responsibility, and that discussion must be taken with the minister responsible, who has to do with the discussions on how to make things work well in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104524	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104525	I also think it might be appropriate to tell you that when a Greenlandic and a Danish police officer gets into the same patrol car, they get different salaries. And it also has a significance in the institutions where we actually find that not only departments, but in the long term also entire institutions are at risk of being shut down. So with these massive challenges, there really is a risk of creating some pretty acute problems when we talk about security and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104552	That's important point to make. And I have no doubt that there will be a process with the Minister for Justice on how to address the problems that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is addressing here. Without being able to provide any guarantees for the harmonization of pay conditions etc. Of course, these are also issues that the government takes seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104617	Then it's Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104618	Thank you. Now Mr. After all, Jesper Petersen did not answer Mrs Sophie Løhde on the question of the Social Democrats' opposition to the election campaign that 3 billion will be saved. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So let me try to ask you something else that it should be worth answering. The Prime Minister has always said that she wants to be the prime minister of the children. When you look at the financial bill that came yesterday, you can see that the percentage of coupling has to be reduced, but which free schools have their subsidies reduced? I would think that the child who goes to a free school does not see that the Prime Minister of the children has spoken. So what free schools are these? I think that would be very nice for both children and parents to know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104720	Well, the Social Democracy was open about that desire in the election campaign. It was also a debate we had in the election campaign and there was also a great deal of attention to what was going to happen with the free schools and the private schools. During the last government, over a number of years, the coupling rate was increased. It has also been lower. The level we imagine will be the level at which, in fact, there were several free schools. So I think it is possible, as the Left believes in many other points, to look at how to make it work. But I myself come from an area where unfortunately schools have been closed in some village communities and where there is a long way to the nearest school. And the commitment to having a local school, and that is why you end up setting up a free school, I understand very well. That is why it is also an example of some of those that have been set aside to ensure that they are not affected in the same way as others by this change in the coupling rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104822	Mrs. Inger Løjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104825	In any case, it cannot be said that it was the political rapporteur of the children who spoke there. After all, it is not the children's prime minister who has just tabled a financial bill, nor is it the child's finance minister, one can say calmly. I simply think that we have come to where we need to be told: how much extra will parents have to pay? Which free schools are we going to close? This gives extreme insecurity to both children and parents. You have to be specific. Well, you can't just stand there like Mr. Knox. Jesper Petersen here, and say that it is also important to have a large local commitment and that you yourself come from an area where there are many free schools. Yeah, but if it's those free schools from sir... Jesper Petersen's area to close?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104907	I simply do not believe that Mrs Inger Løjberg was listening properly. Money has been set aside in the draft budget: 75 million. kr., to that e.g. free schools, far from another town with a primary school, will not be affected in the same way. Schools which lie in places where there are many socially vulnerable and which are schools which take a great deal of social responsibility will also not be affected. You can go in and read that. And that is something we must debate. I think it should perhaps just be left out of the question to challenge us not to want anything for children when there are standards improvements and a community economy that delivers more in one year than the previous government did in four years; that we should perhaps be the last to criticise that the quality of children is not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104949	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003104950	Thank you. I think that the controversy about foreign policy, which has been from the Social Democratic Party, both during the election campaign, but not least after, is very interesting. I am very, very surprised by the turn and the turn taken by the Social Democratic Party. The President of the Social Democratic Party, now Prime Minister, went to the polls that it should be a strict immigration policy and that nothing should be changed. It was so bastant that you wouldn't sit as Prime Minister if there were to be changes. I can mention a large number of points on which there are relaxations. There is the roll-back of the so-called paradigm shift, i.e. the return policy. Lindholm is dropped and there is no alternative, even though the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said that it was ridiculous to find a place, but there has been no alternative. You take in quota refugees. Higher benefits are given to families with children, in fact nearly 300 million. kr. is of non-Western origin. The residence requirement to obtain the daily subsistence allowance shall be rolled back. There is free training for refugees. And then last but not least: Social democracy actually went to the polls for there to be a ceiling on the number of foreigners. This has also been abandoned. I'd like to hear the explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105109	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105110	I really think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard should say: how nice it is that there has now been a broad consensus on the fundamentals of Danish immigration policy. That is the case. While Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard spoke about it and thought that the policy on foreigners had been completely changed, I could see how Mr. Morten Østergaard looked in the face and how he shook his head a little. After all, we are not changing family reunification rules, permanent residence permits, asylum policy, etc. The basic blocks of Danish immigration policy stand by. We stand by that. We said that before the elections, and we will. Then perhaps we can come to another discussion: how can we achieve better integration? Is there anywhere in the immigration legislation today where we do not think it is as it should be? We think that people who have been rejected should go out, but as long as they live here, should those kids live up a shooting ground if their family has trauma over it? Can't we find a better place? But that does not change the fact that the basics remain in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105219	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105221	But I have to say that I do not trust for a moment that you will not change any more, not at all. We have only reached a few months into the new parliamentary term, and I have to ask: is it with higher benefits for foreigners the broad policy of foreigners? It's taken me by surprise. 300 million kr., go ahead. And then we must not underestimate the fact that any relaxation, large or small, in other words, resonates in the great world, and that means that there will be more foreigners, because it is a little more attractive. It's a little easier to get in, and it's a little easier to be here. That is very, very important. I do not think the Social Democrats are concentrating very much on this either. But I would like to have an answer primarily to the ceiling on the number of foreigners on whom the Social Democratic Party elected: where did it go? I would like a very specific answer to that and not an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105310	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105311	We just have to demonstrate to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that this is the way it is going to be. Well, I think that Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard has tried, even when there were negotiations on the understanding paper, if one could just move a little. And no, we cannot do that on the fundamentals of foreign policy. They stand by. We want to spend people's money better than just spending it on Lindholm. And yes, we still believe that we should pay close attention to how many municipalities each can integrate. It is part of our overall foreign policy. We need to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105345	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105348	After all, the rapporteur did not provide any concrete answers to the specific questions raised by Mrs Inger Løhde and Mrs Sophie Løhde. So it may be that I am a little more fortunate and the rapporteur can provide a concrete answer to my question. Social democracy said in the election campaign that 95 per cent. the Danes would not be affected by the social democrats' tax increases. Now we stand here five months later: can the rapporteur today guarantee that it is only 5 per cent. by the Danes who will be affected by social democracy's tax increases?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105421	Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Morten Dahlin will speak again in a moment, and then Mr. Morten Dahlin perhaps pointed out where it is that there is a new proposal in the tax conditions that have been put forward, which are surprising and which the Left is opposed to. We said before the elections that we thought that there should be a fair tax again when you inherit the ownership of a company. We have said that we think that we should reduce the use of plastic by having higher taxes on those things. 1 100 tonnes will be saved with what is in the Finance Act now with higher taxes there. And that's how we can continue the row down. It has been put forward before the elections how it will be. There are no changes to housing taxes and personal taxes. But the things we have put forward we want to change do not appear in the draft budget. And then we have to see what the Left wants; whether they can back up some of the things that are being done, for example. will help to raise some of the bills you left behind, where tax relief has been granted, but not provided for funding when it comes to, for example. The cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105523	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105525	Now I'm new in here. That was a very long answer to a very short question, in which I actually asked the rapporteur if he could confirm that the promise made before the elections also applies after the elections. The rapporteur could not do so. That is why my follow-up question must be: what other promises made by the Social Democratic Party before the elections are no longer valid?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105548	I have respect for the attempt. But in all due respect: what I made clear a moment ago was that we have actually proposed the things we said in the election campaign and before that. There are even some things which have been left out; which are not there. Maybe it'll come. But the proposals contained in the draft budget are exactly what we have proposed. I don't really see that. Morten Dahlin should be able to get the line up to be something else, when that is actually exactly what we said before the election we are now doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105621	Then it's Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105623	Thank you. At the 2018 public meeting, I was very pleased when our current Prime Minister stated that now the Social Democracy would also work for the abolition of the education ceiling. It is, of course, also stated in our contract paper that we must have it abolished. But while we are waiting, the young people and the students are walking around feeling pressured and insecure. I would therefore like to ask why the Social Democrats do not listen to the students and give priority to abolishing the ceiling on education in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105707	I would like to make it absolutely clear to Mrs Katrine Robsøe that the position is the same. In other words, we want the education ceiling to be abolished. It is also the case that we now have the economy we have. We get criticism from the Left, you can hear, for having provided more money to make the Finance Act, among other things. to invest in education. Nevertheless, we are doing so, so there is the removal of the re-priority contribution, and there are also other opportunities for investment in education, in the field of children and whatever else it may be. It's not all solved at once. If this is a very important demand for the Radical Left, then we must discuss it. In the first place, in the draft Finance Act, we have given priority to removing the re-priority contribution, but we are happy to discuss other things with the Radical Left, and, as I have said, there is also the economy to negotiate on, if that is the most important thing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105800	Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105803	Thank you. Now, of course, I know what Radicals and myself have to say about the educational ceiling, and it is very important to abolish it, because it creates insecurity and pressure among our students. I am also aware that you probably have a very good strategy for all these negotiations we are about to enter, but I am genuinely interested to hear why the Social Democrats themselves have not given priority to abolishing the ceiling on education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105836	I would like to make it clear once again that our position is the same. Now there will be a period in which there will be some difficult priorities, because there are many things we would like to do, and we have not taken up everything in the Finance Act from the start, and that also provides an opportunity for other parties to say what is important to them. We only have 48 seats, so Mrs Katrine Robsøe will not face a political opposition to changing the education ceiling. I agree that this has helped to increase the performance pressure which is not good and which plagues many young people. Then we'll have to see if there's an economy for it when we have to make it all work together at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105914	The last one asking, we're gonna make it in this round, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105918	Thank you. Words are a lot of them. We have not heard many concrete answers, concrete indications of what the Social Democrats really want. So I am just trying to follow up on the question raised by my good colleague Morten Dahlin: how many percent of Danes will see tax increases by 2020 if the government's financial bill is implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003105946	Well, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen can choose to carry around the same discussion again. And then I have to make it clear that it cannot come as a surprise, that is, the proposals for changes in the tax field that we have put forward in this Finance Act, which make there an economy to improve our welfare. For example: there are other issues on which we can make important progress, both in the area of climate change and in the area of welfare. It is a political priority because we think that these are reasonable changes in tax policy. What we could miss was that we didn't have to pick up those bills at the same time from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen's party colleagues who were in government before: there was car taxation where it was put down but not provided for funding. There is the recovery of the tax administration, where it has been put in place so well that just when some others take over the responsibility, there is a huge billion dollars missing and one has not taken up one's job. We must ensure that, and we shall do so with this draft Finance Act. But it also requires some money and some, in our view, reasonable changes in the tax area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110045	Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110105	It must then be understood that the message of the Social Democratic Party in the election campaign that 95 per cent. of the Danes would not experience tax increases, just a lie. After all, there were real tax proposals that affect almost all Danes. I am glad that, after all, we have settled this matter. I will try two other places in relation to concrete answers that we have not been able to get. Now Jesper Petersen has had some time since he was on TV earlier today. I would just like one concrete example of a bureaucratic rule in the care of the elderly, which the Social Democratic Party will remove. And I would also like to know: if the government does not want to set up an exit centre on Lindholm, where is the third exit centre to lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110143	That was a lot of things at once. Anyway, I understand that with regard to the approximately 20%. It seems to the Left that it is reasonable for the Danes who smoke to have to pay more in taxes and taxes. We would like that too, but it is so 20 per cent. So we also think it is reasonable that if you get your pay paid as free telephony by your employer, in other words your private telephone, it is reasonable that you should be taxed on it, which is a perfectly common principle of tax law. And then we have started working with the municipalities to find bureaucratic improvements there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110212	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen, time's up. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003110225	Thank you very much for that, President. The whole picture looks bad. That is what the newly appointed Social Democratic Finance Minister said after the so-called cashier's check-up, while at the same time complaining that the task ahead was so difficult. In a situation where the Left Government has left a Denmark with an absolute top-level economy with record employment • Never have there been so many in work in Denmark where the number of people with public support is at the lowest level since 1987, where the immigration policy and the influx of asylum are under control, which is at the lowest level for 10 years, and where the economic room for manoeuvre in the next few years is greater than any other government, the overall picture looks bad, according to the Finance Minister. And I know I've also been in government that pessimism is a virtue in the Ministry of Finance. But it is also possible to pass it over, and I can also sense that that pessimism may have slipped right over to the Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister's opening speech pointed to a central and important thing in Danish society, namely trust. And I agree with that; we must safeguard it. But I also think that the speech painted a rather gloomy picture of Denmark, which I think many Danes find difficult to recognize. Sure, there's always things to do. That's why we're in politics. Public welfare can always be better, security can always be greater, and we must start the next steps in the green transition. But Denmark is not a society in which both trust and quality of life are in free fall. At least I feel different. I'll be happy when things go well in Denmark, and it does. Denmark is a great country, and rarely have we had such good opportunities to do it even better. And if we dare, then so can we. There is an opportunity to use the good times to make Denmark even better and to ensure the future of our country. That is why we must continue to make responsible decisions, so that those who come after us also have the same opportunities as we have had. The left has led Denmark for 14 of the last 18 years. We have been responsible for setting an ambitious direction for Denmark's green transition. We have set an ambitious target for Denmark to be climate neutral by 2050. We have put an end to exploration for oil and gas on land and inland waters. We have made the most ambitious energy agreement ever with all the parties of the Folketing last year. And we will continue to take responsibility for the climate. We must remain ambitious and the Left supports the ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. And for the Left, it is crucial that our climate targets are genuine green. After all, a Danish climate target must not lead to us simply pushing CO2 Greenhouse gases are not familiar with national borders. Our efforts must have a real and genuine green effect in order to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, climate action must go hand in hand with economic growth. A healthy economy is the whole prerequisite for us to be able to afford to invest in the green transition. And if Denmark is to continue to be a pioneer country for others, we must show that green conversion, economic growth and personal freedom can easily go hand in hand without being a Dane or weakening our competitiveness. We need to be a marvellous example and not a scare example. Since the Prime Minister in the election campaign was not Prime Minister, but the Social Democrat President, the Social Democrat President said something wise, namely: Objective does not solve anything in itself. That is why I am concerned that we are discussing: how do we do it? I am also concerned about this, and that is why the Left will insist that objectives are not alone, but are thought from the outset together with concrete tools and funding. This will be crucial for the Left when we go to the negotiations on a climate bill. For one thing is certain: the climate challenge is not solved by writing a goal into a law. We do not yet know how the government imagines that a climate law should be tightened up. However, we know that there will be a need for funding. The government didn't tell you that. In the Left, we are ready to use part of the room for manoeuvre, which is beyond the demographic features of the years to come, in order to finance the green transition. As I have said, we do not now have an overview of how the government will precisely tighten up a climate bill, and therefore the Left calls on the government to get in the working clothes and to convene negotiations as soon as possible on an ambitious and broadly based climate agreement which not only has objectives, but also concrete tools and funding to deliver action. The Left approach here and the Left approach to politics in general will always be a mixture of visions and snuff. We want to turn up the green transition without making Denmark poorer. We want to secure the welfare of the future without using the rub and stump. We will go for the future without losing the ground link. And right now Denmark is better equipped than long to do just that because the government that preceded the current one took responsible decisions. We must continue to do so, and that is why I would like today to extend my hand to the entire government and, in particular, to the Prime Minister, if the interest in broad cooperation is real. If the government wants to pursue a policy that strengthens the basis for growth and jobs and does not make it more expensive to be a Dane or to run a business in Denmark, if the Prime Minister really wants to be the prime minister of the children, also for those children whose parents have chosen a free school, if we really have to show more confidence in our public employees by giving them more freedom and not dictations from Christiansborg, if the government is willing to address properly the places that lag in our health care, in psychiatry, if the Social Democracy wants to pursue a strict immigration policy that suits Denmark, then the Left is ready. That also applies to the other way. If the Prime Minister wants to pursue a policy that reduces the incentive to work if the government wants to make it less attractive to live outside the big cities, whose fine green promises never turn into beautiful green trees, because one has created more expectations than one can meet if the Social Democracy will continue to relax foreign policy, weaken the foundations for growth and jobs, and, by the way, give the tax screw an extra twist by each Finance Act together with the rest of the left, so that it becomes more expensive to be a Dane, then the Left is also ready: then we are ready to be the opposition that the government may have waited for, but which the government really deserves. In those words, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government has taken over a Denmark in good shape with record employment, a large economic space, fewer on public support and an asylum influx at the lowest level for 10 years. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that the government is pulling Denmark in the wrong direction in a number of areas. The Danish Parliament expresses concern about the government's plans to raise taxes and taxes for the Danes and Danish companies. Economic growth is a prerequisite for supporting the quality development of welfare and a more ambitious green transition. Parliament calls on the government to cancel its relaxation of foreign policy. Denmark must manage the influx, take action against parallel societies and make clear demands on foreigners in Denmark. The Danish Parliament also calls on the government to present as soon as possible answers to how the electoral promises are to be implemented, including the right to an early retirement pension, 1,000 more nurses, minimum standards, infrastructure and so-called near hospitals. • V 2). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111233	Thank you. The proposal for adoption is also now included in the debate. We have 45 minutes ahead of us, and if anyone wants to speak and has not pressed in, I would ask you to do so, and then we should distribute it as fairly as we possibly can. But I can also tell you now that everyone does not have time to speak. But now we start with Mr. Jesper Petersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111255	Congratulations again on the election. It's also good to see Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen in the new role and we have looked forward to having this debate. Because it has to be said that some rather special things happened in the election campaign with the policy of the Left. After many years of zero growth, which was most important, and under-financing, a real welfare promise was now ready. I have not been able to be clear here after the election campaign, whether it really stands to it, that the Left will commit itself to when there is a growing cost to more elderly people and more children. Fortunately, in the years to come, simply as a starting point for its economic policy, to have the welfare promise standing by force and then to drop off the money it costs. Is it the policy of the Left today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111349	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111352	Well, I think that's the first time and so nice that we get that answer so clearly. Because it has been wool in the mouth so far, including from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Well, I've read the interviews that have been given. We can find out the stock exchange and see how we talked about it and did not want to commit to it, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen had been elected President. Then we have to ask that question, and that was a clear answer here. It is part of the legislative programme that the government will propose a genuine welfare law, so Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen can transfer what he gave now from being a word on the platform to being a push on the green button. Is it also a yes here today that the Left will actually commit itself in this way and can give an undertaking to vote in favour of such a welfare law with precisely the commitment I just asked Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111432	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111436	The advantage of asking clear questions is, of course, that you can get a clear answer. That is also what I tried to deliver to the first, and I think I actually managed very well with it myself. Then Mr. Jesper Petersen well that you should not believe everything you read in the paper, and it is therefore wiser to go directly to the source itself, and it was done here too. By the way, I very much appreciate the fact that Mr. Jesper Petersen had dedicated half of his speech to one of the subjects that is dear to my heart: Me. But, of course, I cannot say on behalf of my party that we will be voting in favour of a law the content of which I know nothing but the heading form. That would be thunderously unbelievable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111518	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111521	Thank you. Congratulations, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, even though I was not allowed to send Mr Ellemann-Jensen all my greetings. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen at the national meeting of the Left. I had made one myself, I think, incredibly sweet greeting, where I also had a large, beautiful pie decorated with a flag of formedbrog to remind Jakob Ellemann-Jensen that we should look after Denmark together. I don't know, but some members of the Left Secretariat must have thought that it was unwise that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was saddled with such a cake, so it was cut out of my greeting. I hope, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will remember that in future, when we are going to have coffee together, we can also enjoy a cake for the coffee and remember that what the cake is expressing is that we must take care of Denmark together, and that it is within the remit of taking care of Denmark, that we have control of the influx of asylum seekers and migrants to Denmark, which unfortunately would like to find other places than where they come from, because many in the countries in which they live live live under some difficult conditions, and then there are many who would like to apply to Denmark. But we have to take care of Denmark, which means that we have a strict immigration policy, and that also means that we have border controls, on which the Left also went to the polls. And when sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111634	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111639	I still have a chance to watch the rest of that video, and I'm really looking forward to it. I have only had it described, but the enthusiasm for sweet baked goods we share, and so I also brought it to our meeting yesterday. I want to take care of Denmark in every possible way. It is not a secret that I think border controls are a necessary evil, but with a line underneath the necessary. Because in my optics we also need to continue with border controls in the near future. I think it is important that we make border controls as smart as possible, as little burdensome for good, law-abiding citizens as possible, and as effective as possible, and I would very much like to listen to the initiatives of the police, among other things. in relation to a hinterland patrol, and which things are more effective tools than the ones we are currently using. But, unfortunately, border controls in my optics have to be maintained, at least for a period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111743	Yes, but that is something we have been discussing for years, and there is, of course, that discussion about what is a wise border control. I just think that a great many Danes experience physical control, including on the border line itself, as part of a wise border control. I think that was also the signal that the Left was sent to the Danes when it suddenly stood with the then President and the current Vice-President and congratulations on the border line in the election campaign and said to the Danes that the Left is behind border controls and will continue to have border controls. The reason why it is a little topical to discuss this here and now is, of course, that there are voices in the EU system that you will come to Denmark at some point and say that the border controls we have today are over. After all, it is important for us in the Danish People's Party that we know that we have some good partners in here who are prepared to stand up to the European Union and say: No, we want to continue border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111830	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111833	I think that the way it was handled under the former government and then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration illustrates very well that there is the will to say: dear friends in the EU system, we therefore need to maintain this border control for a longer period of time. And, of course, we stand by that. We think it is important to take good care of Denmark. We can see that other countries have also had to introduce border controls. That is why I say that, although I think it is basically a pity to place restrictions on our freedom of movement, because we good, ordinary, law-abiding citizens must have the right to move, it is therefore a necessary evil, and I think it will continue to be so. So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111912	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003111915	From here, too, there is a great congratulations to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen with the fine new assignments. But it is actually a congratulations to the Left with a great choice. You can see and hear the proposal for adoption that has been tabled today, and it is true that Denmark is in many ways in a good condition. One almost senses a frustration that it has apparently not occurred to the public since one wanted a different majority in Denmark, and one must then try to get over that, to get to work. But my question is actually that it was very significant that in the election campaign, the Left broke with some signals, so tried to signal that which I think is very positive that one wanted to break with the usual framework in the Folketing, wanted to break with block policy. After all, a fine mandate was given, but what my question is about is whether that is the course that stands. Because somehow, although many things are going well in Denmark, the people chose to say that something new should happen. It took a different majority. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has perhaps come closer to the answer as to why it happened that the people wanted a different majority in spite of that much progress and whether, therefore, they will stick to what was said in the election campaign about a break with the usual framework in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112028	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112031	It's always dangerous to embark on such a career as an election researcher... especially from this platform... so I won't make myself smarter than to say that when things go well, people dare to gamble a little more, and that's what you've done. I have a fervent desire for broad cooperation in this Parliament. I'm more interested in what we're working on than who I'm working with. I think it is the issues that are important and I am working together and that is also what I tried to signal to the Prime Minister before, who also signed it by eagerly nodding. I would therefore like to make our mandates available where we are moving Denmark in the right direction. On the other hand, I am going to make myself difficult and make us difficult where we think it is going in the wrong direction. Of course we do. We have a common interest in that. But it's more important what we're working on than who we're working with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112129	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112130	I think that is extremely good words at the beginning of a parliamentary term too. I think there are many things in it, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen today also says on behalf of the Left about joining the ambition to reduce Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. In 2030, a huge task that requires broad cooperation if it is to be achieved. But that also brings me to one of the places where I think there is work to be done, namely to take stock of the fact that companies lack labour. I would therefore like to ask whether broad cooperation could also be extended to the two things: to help companies get more foreign labour and to let them keep the foreign labour they already have, even if it has come here as refugees, in other words refugees who contribute? Can we work together on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112213	Thank you! Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112216	I hear from Danish companies that there is a great need for outside labour because it is going well, yes. And the prerequisite for this to continue to go well is that we have the skilled labour we need, because it also creates more jobs. I think we should work together on this. I'd like to suggest to you, sir. Morten Østergaard also has to take it up with the Prime Minister, because that is where you also have to influence a little to make the government realise that we need it. In order to ensure the growth of our society, we are therefore dependent on someone coming and helping us with what they are good at.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112252	Then it's Mrs. Signe Munk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112304	I'd like to sign for a good speech from Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, where fortunately the climate was allowed to fill very much and especially for the support of the Left for the 70-percent target in 2030. We are, of course, some who have waited a little excitedly, but it is no shame that that decision takes time as long as you get to the right place. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen emphasizes that it must be a genuine and genuine green transition. It's hard to believe that it's supposed to be a fake green transition, but I'm still getting a little curious to hear what Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. So if you could lift up if you could, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112341	I mean, the kind of charges we're all dealing with, and that's what happens to me sometimes. I understand the question from Mrs Signe Munk. I mean, when I'm talking about a real green switch, and it's true that there's no contradiction to what's fake green, it's because this is about improving the world. This isn't about improving our guts. And I think that some of the things that are going on in the debate around us, both politically and also in the media around us, are very much about looking at actions that make us feel better, but which do not have a real effect. Compared to some of the things we produce in Denmark with a low pressure on the climate, I would just warn against saying: Well we can approach the 70%. by pushing it out to some other countries. Because it is simply not going to be a better place for the world, and I think that in many ways would be irresponsible. If we are to continue to be a green forerunner, we need to show other countries that we can do this in an attractive way, which means that people do not walk around in pancakes and think that life is bad, but that we are actually a country that you want to be like.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112449	Mrs. Signe Munk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112454	When I think of a real green transition, I also think of the recommendations that the Climate Council has made. Yesterday they warned, for example. against the need to use CO2 Some of it, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur on climate change. Thomas Danielsen, has taken part in the negotiations on the Climate Act, is precisely the cancellation of CO2 so I just want to hear in relation to a real green transition how Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112530	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112533	I mean, a lot of this is of course something we are going to take in the negotiations, but one can basically say that canceling quotas leads to a smaller CO2 and that is the purpose of the whole thing. Now 70 has been such a very magical figure. I think that in our zeal to get there we should be careful not to write us off different areas, and that we should probably also agree with the rest of the world on what can be expected and what cannot be expected. Otherwise, we are not the ones who can afford to point the finger at other countries at some point if they start to count a little creatively. So I think we should stick to those standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112613	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112622	Thank you. And also thanks for the speech, we say from the Enhedslisten side. And congratulations on the new Presidency. Mr Jakob Ellemann-Jensen It is not a Presidency). Laughter, I'm sorry. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (Forbidden). It wasn't even on purpose, I'm really sorry. Well, well, well, but the Left is still called Denmark's Liberal Party. Yeah, good. Because that is what my question should really be about. I think that Denmark's liberal party has always been a rather cool title, and that is why it has also hurt me extra when, during the previous period of government, when the Left has been in power, we have experienced historically many interventions in freedom of expression. In fact, the previous government was the government which has just given up most of the freedom of expression since the Second World War. It comes next to handshake and rules on how to dress, and what do I know about more surveillance, including of law-abiding citizens. I would therefore just like to know whether the new President might be a little more liberal than the old one. Could we see a little more of the title come true now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112745	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112748	We have such a habit in the Left that some of those who keep us in place and what can be said to make sure that we are liberal are the VUs. It is also good to hear from an old VU that we have to hold on to the liberals. Laughter That was very, very kindly meant. I think it is important to be liberal. I think it's nice to be liberal. And that's what I'm starting from. Sometimes things can just get too square. I'm not a liberal, I'm a liberal. That's the kind of distinction I sometimes get shot in my shoes: Well, what's the difference? The difference is that I am based on what is reasonable, and this often turns out to be liberal. I am not based on an ideology, because I believe that any form of extremism is harmful. So, yes, I am a basic liberal, but there are also things, for example. The cover ban, which it is no secret that I think has been difficult. It's been hard for me, too. I don't want to decide what other people are wearing, but I certainly don't want to live in a society where you hide where you don't look each other in the eye. As the Prime Minister rightly said, a society must be based on trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112857	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112900	It is good to see, moreover, that the mood is getting back up in the Left Parliament Group. We have lacked that. I very much agree with the distinction between liberalism and liberalism. I do not regard myself as a liberalist at all, but basically as a liberal, and that is also why I think it is actually an extremely important issue, that is, that a democratic society is based on freedoms. Søren Pind has said many things, and I disagree with him even after he stopped in Parliament but he has also said something that was wise. He said, 'I think it was to Berlingske that, in addition to the fact that the right has got Islamist on the brain, the excessive focus on alien politics and the reduction of fundamental rights can feed that extremism that we are trying to avoid. Isn't it true that these interventions can go too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112946	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003112952	Yeah, I think it's important to balance these things. I do not think we will disagree on that, that is to say the balance is important. It may be that we disagree on where the balance is supposed to be... we may not find out this way right now. Some of the things we have emphasized in the Left in those discussions, because I should like to say that we have been discussing these things long and loud and eagerly, and we must have room for this, and we also have room for that, and which we have tried to do, is precisely the balance between being an open society, being a trusting society, but at the same time also say that people must decide for themselves. We're gonna meet in a real way. We do not always hit it the first time, and then we have to recognise it, and then we have to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113033	I would like to say that there has been a bit of fun in these questions, and that has been quite fine. But we have made it clear to the new Members that we must not speak out of the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is why they can get a wrong view of it. So I just want to say that this is the rule that applies. But I let the good mood pass this time. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113059	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your speech and congratulations on the rapporteur's new duties. After all, the Left and the Conservative People's Party agree on many things, and we have been historic too, but sometimes we have been more in agreement than others. But leave the past alone, because I would like to talk about the future. Now it is the case that we are in the happy situation, that the progress we can see in the number of jobs, among other things. come from seniors, i.e. people who have retired; it may be that they find out when they have come home that it was just as violent enough to walk around at home and have a little too much free time, and then they want to get back into the labour market. Now that a majority in this Parliament has decided that people sitting at home on the couch should have some more money to sit there and perhaps not be so much animated to go to work, what does the Left say about the proposal presented by the Conservative People's Party this weekend that pensioners who have retired but return to work should no longer be set off against their pensions? Was that something we could discuss and possibly make a proposal on together?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113202	Well, I'll share with Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen the enthusiasm when older people are so fresh that they want to participate in the labour market. My own mother is 82 years old and has just gone the Camino... but not all of it. But the more fresh older people we can get back to work, the better. That is why I think this is a subject that we should certainly be discussing. We need the experience these people represent and we need them in the labour market. So that is something we should like to find solutions to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113237	Then we move on to Mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113248	This is already a good debate, because new knowledge is coming on the table. I had no idea that Mrs. Pernille Skipper had been VUs. It's really breaking news. As regards the question, I think there were three things that were really encouraging about this election, and one was that it was a green choice that we had a new government, and the other was that I saw the former President of the Left so clearly disapprove of right-wing populism. As a further question, I would like to know whether this is still the case with the new President, because I really saw that Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was very precise in the debates we had during the election campaign, namely that enough is enough to do so, and that the Left does not want to engage in closer cooperation with anyone who has such attitudes and values. Is this also the case with the Left today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113343	I am opposed to any form of populism, any form of extremism, and I share that with my predecessor. This is true of all wings, and I guess that's what it is. And no, I am not one who thinks that ultimate demands are a sensible way of negotiating. But extremism and populism I am an eager opponent of, and I actually think we all are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113417	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113420	When I ask, of course, it is to get a sense of what quite basic principles the Left stands on. Will the Left continue to stand up for the conventions, will the Left clearly mark humanistic values and attitudes? Does the Left insist on the fact that right-wing populism is a very clear political opponent?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113445	We are opposed to right populism, to left populism, and if there is an alternative populism, we are certainly opposed to it. We are also wary of international conventions. As a small country, it may sometimes seem strange to follow a debate about conventions being bad for us, because they are put in the world just to protect small countries, small people like us, and we have a clear interest in that. We have a clear interest in a sensible international legal order, and that is what we in the Left are going to do, and we are going to do it all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113518	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113527	Thank you for the floor. And congratulations on the chair. It's hardly a secret that I'm glad it's moved on. I'm not going to follow up on the question here, but I'm going to ask another one. In the election campaign and also up to the election campaign, former President of the Left and then Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen said that he wanted a new asylum system with a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark. That's what he said in his constitutional speech in 2018. I would just like to know whether it is still the policy of the Left that a stop be made to spontaneous asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113609	It is clear that it is not something about which one can go out and say: from Tuesday we have introduced it. This requires an alternative, and I also heard the Prime Minister say that the Prime Minister, together with the other European countries, will find out what the possibilities for this are, who is involved in this and whether we can have a sensible system. Because it is not a system about which we in Denmark alone can sit down and say: Now we do this and don't care that the rest of the world exists. But I am actually very happy and satisfied with the fact that I am confident that the Prime Minister will also present it to his colleagues in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113643	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113647	Now it is the case that we have a reservation about the legal policy of the European Union, and that is why refugee policy lies in Denmark. The former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, said even in the election campaign that we will not be acting in violation of international conventions or the refugee convention if we change the asylum system and thus introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum. So I call again for an answer on the policy of the Left: does the Left want a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark, as was the policy of the Left under the former President Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113723	I tried to answer that question. It is true that we have a legal reservation, and it is true that asylum policy lies in Denmark, but that is not the same as saying that we must therefore stand alone with the solutions. So, I think it is important to find international solutions, to find common European solutions to this problem, because it is not the case that suddenly from your boat crossing the Mediterranean Sea you pop up in Padborg. So there is a whole European continent that we are moving through. And that is why we need to stand with the other European countries about this in order to have solutions that can also be done in reality and not just a mirage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113802	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113814	Thank you for that, and thank you for an excellent speech to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. I would also like to ask a few questions about the liberal ambitions of the Left, and I do not think that this Pernille Skipper liberalism is indeed the only form of liberal ideology that is extreme and harmful. General liberalism is not. But, of course, I'm curious about sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will move the party into a liberal direction. I brought a little board to make the extra educational where Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen can help me place the Left. Is it in the direction of 2015-Left, where you went to election for tax cuts in top and bottom reforms that should make Denmark richer, and a limited growth in public spending • or is it a continuation of 2019-Valgkampsleft, where you say: We want the same as Social Democracy, just without tax increases? I was just going to ask the rapporteur where he would place the cross, but he would of course say that it should be placed at the left. But what kind of a left do you get under Mr. The management of Jakob Ellemann-Jensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113904	We're reluctant to have props in the Assembly Hall, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003113914	That kind of messed up my answer. Laughter in the Chamber Thank you for the question. We are a party that professes to be a welfare society. I think the welfare society is good, I think it is important and I think it gives us opportunities. It offers equal opportunities in our society, which I believe is an important foundation for the trust that our society must also have. I do not share the view that appears to be in some places, namely that liberalism is only about the size of the public sector and about top taxation. And it's not my impression that the Liberal Alliance in new clothes does that either. But I'm gonna put us on that scale a little later. I didn't bring my glasses, so I couldn't see it clearly from here. The glasses were a prop I wasn't allowed to go with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114001	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114005	Thank you. Yes, that was not really an answer, but if you listen to the answers given earlier, you can hear that we must continue to burn off the whole economic space in the state and nothing in the private sector and then the intersection is enough by the Social Democratic Left, so to speak. But peace be to it. I actually agree with a 'yes' to the importance of a strong welfare society. And I just want to ask you about Mr. Simpson. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also shares a distinction between private welfare and public welfare and believes that there may be a fine balance in the way we spend the money, so we also give something to private welfare in the form of tax cuts, as well as we invest in public welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114044	Thank you for the relatively leading question. First of all, I would like to arrest the premise that we are just going to burn off the whole room, because we certainly do not want to. We have said, as I also replied to Mr. Jesper Petersen earlier that we will keep up with the demographic move, but it still leaves a nice room for manoeuvre. I have said here today that we are also prepared to reserve some of the room for manoeuvre to achieve the ambitious climate objectives, because some have to find the money, and the habit is that we do. In addition, however, I have the basic view that I actually believe that citizens are better at managing their money than I am. I really think that the citizens are comfortable with having their own money in their own pockets, and I think that we should reward the people who go to work every day, especially those with the lowest incomes, because they are the ones who keep Denmark going.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114131	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114133	Thank you. And congratulations to the rapporteur by post. In the spring, after all, the Left presented a major health reform which proposed the closure of the regions. This gave rise to a heated debate among the people, and it also gave what one might call a non-prejudiced debate in the Left, where several of the rapporteur's party members were out to say ■ very sensible, I think it was a quite unreasonable idea. However, the rapporteur stood by and held the fan high and replied in the candidate test and when the rapporteur was asked that the regions should of course be closed down. Is it still the view of the rapporteur and the Left that the regions should be closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114223	I would say that I have heard from the new Minister for Health that it is believed in the government and the Social Democrats that the challenges we pointed out... I am sorry, I am taking it a step back: I agree that, unfortunately, much of this debate came to be about the regions, and I am damn sorry. Because we came to talk structures instead of talking patients and instead of talking coherence, and that was the reason for the health reform. Unfortunately, everything ended up being about structures. However, I understand from the Minister for Health and the Government that it is believed that the task can really be done by preserving the regions, and I am actually looking forward to negotiating this with the government, because we are focused on solutions, on patients, on coherence and not so much on how the structures we are building around them are. I look forward to that and I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Health has called for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114313	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114315	In an earlier question, the rapporteur rejected the fact that he had wool in his mouth. I think that is so re-introduced here, because it is true, as the rapporteur points out, that social democracy sees a solution where we can preserve the regions, but if I wanted to hear the position of the Social Democratic Party, I could ask the Minister for Health. Now I asked the rapporteur: what is the position of the Left? In other words, the regions carry out an important social task with hospitals and, as the rapporteur will know from time to time as Minister for the Environment, they carry out important tasks in relation to land cleaning, which points far into the future, which is why it is of course important to discuss problems, but also to discuss structures. We need to be sure what the structures are for work. That is why I would like to ask the Left's position on the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114353	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114356	It was not really to talk with wool in your mouth or to talk about it; it was actually to show a sympathy with the extended hand of the Minister of Health. But it may give the answer as to why some have become ministers and why some have not become ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114408	Then it's Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114417	Congratulations on the chair. I'm gonna get well over that one, 'cause maybe it wasn't so good. I think it is really good news that the Left supports the goal of 70% CO2 what is perhaps not quite clear, and which I would like to ask the rapporteur and the President of the Left, is whether it also means that the Left is ready to commit to the 70-percent target in a binding climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114447	As I said here, we think the ambition is right, we think the ambition is important, and we also think it is important that we hit this goal in a genuinely green way. Now I was asked earlier whether I would commit myself to voting in favour of this and that law and, as I replied there, I cannot say that I am in favour of a law whose content I know nothing but the title. But what I am saying here is that we support the ambition of the 70%. We are going with open minds into these negotiations and we have the priorities that I mentioned here before. We think this should be genuine green, we think that the possibility that Denmark will continue to be a pioneering country in this area is something we should take advantage of to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114531	Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114535	There has been a lot of laughing today, but perhaps get clear answers, and it may also be wise to think. But when the industry says, and when all the parties say: we can make a binding framework law, where we say that we now set the framework and set the target, and then we put an action plan afterwards, so that we achieve the objective that it will be difficult to achieve, but we have to do it together. I think it is important whether the Left is in that direction in a binding way or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114603	It was actually my impression that that was what I said before, and it was also my impression that that was what I said in my speech. On the left side, we are also prepared to give funding for this. Now, unfortunately, the rapporteur has used both his short remarks, but a question back here could of course be whether the Radical Left is interested in also using the room to secure this funding rather than the solutions that just point to taxes and charges and burdens for the population. We are ready for the 70%, but we are not voting on the legislative text itself right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114639	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114647	Thank you. Now I understand that it is very important for the President of the Left to talk about Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. At least that is what he said to the Social Democrat rapporteur earlier. Then I could also hear the most recent reply to my fellow party member, and I really thought that was quite arrogant, i.e. something about the difference between who became minister and who did not become minister. In other words, could we not just get a clear answer from the President of the Left: does the Left believe today that the regions should be preserved, or does the Left still believe that the regions should be closed down?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114721	I'm sorry if my answer to Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen seemed arrogant. I myself have been in this situation for years not being appointed minister until I was. I'm sure the same thing will happen to Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen at one point. He's a good coworker. Then there are the regions. What I tried to answer before was that what matters to me is patients, and that is the context. If, as the Minister for Health suggests, we can find the good solutions that we proposed in our health programme, with the preservation of the regions, then it is not important for me that the regions should be closed down. It is not an end in itself. The debate came to be very much about it, and I thought it was a pity, because it should be about patients, it should be about coherence. So, no, I'm not determined to have to shut down the regions. I would be very happy to accept a model in which the regions exist if the government can present such a solution. That's why I'm really trying to get into this with an open mind. That's why I made the distinction before between a health minister who actually says that well, listen, we have a solution to this, we have to talk about it, and then something that I actually think was kind of a teasing issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114836	Sir. Jeppe Bruus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114840	I did not really see this as a teasing question, and that is not the question I am asking now either. So I hope that there will not be an arrogant answer to me as well. The question is actually very simple. As I hear it, the President of the Left responds, it is the case that if the agreement is sufficiently good, then we can be in favour of preserving the regions. If not, then the Left still believes that the regions should be closed down. It was my attempt to interpret the slightly long and perhaps a little woolly answer that came. But was that understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114911	I think that was a good interpretation. In other words, I can see that so far we are the ones who have put forward a proposal on this, and I understand from the government that we will be putting forward our own proposal on this, which is based on the previous government's proposal, and that we believe that a model that preserves the regions can be arrived at here. And if you have such a model that solves the challenges we have in this area, then we are happy to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114933	Then it's Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003114940	There are several who have noticed that the Left has been given a new President, so the purpose of my question is to check whether there may have been a new policy in some places as well. What I would like to ask is the public law. I think it is a good democratic value that in a society like the Danish one we can control what the rulers are doing. And there are a number of points where the current public law restricts the possibility of doing so. It has also been criticised, and it is a criticism to which we in the SF have listened. I would like to know whether the Left has also listened to that criticism. In other words, will the Left join with the rather large patchwork of parties that are against the current public law and will have relaxed it so that we can see again what the rulers are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115033	I mean, you could have taken it into the understanding paper you made with the government. If we have the opportunity to improve the public law, we would be happy to do so, but I think we should be careful not to come from government and move into opposition and then suddenly think that there must be greater transparency than when you were in government. So I shall abstain from doing so. I see the Prime Minister appreciates it. But I think that here too there should be a balance between the people and we as Parliament having a right to be able to look at the government in the cards and we should be able to do that properly and that, as a government, we should also have a working room where we can talk in a sensible way. If we have not struck that balance completely in the public law, then let us look at it. But the prerequisite for this is also that as a government you have a room where you can talk without being looked over your shoulder, otherwise it will happen in all sorts of other ways, and I don't think any of us have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115141	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115143	In the SF we also recognise that we need a room for political decisions, but once they have been taken, we think it is fair enough to lay the foundations for those decisions so that the public can assess them. That is actually where I think the Left could help us reach. I do not think it is a shame to be wiser in politics. We know, of course, that 22 out of 30 journalists who have received the Cavling Prize to reveal some of the biggest scandals in the central administration say that their case would never have come forward with the current rules. So does it not make the impression on the Left that it is now just one of two parties which is in line with this legislation and which is blocking us from getting more insight into what the rulers are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115230	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115234	Yes, it certainly makes an impression. It's good reporters, and I'm kind of happy about them too. But I still think that this balance between having a working room for a government and having an opportunity to look at the cards is important. That is why I say that if we have to adjust that balance if it is not exactly the right place, let us look at such an adjustment. But the point about this is not what the rapporteur says; I am in on it, as some people think that everything should just be fully publicly available, causing me to fear that some things will then be discussed in unofficial forums. We shouldn't be a country like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115310	If we keep to the speaking time, we can reach two more authors, Mr. Henning Hyllested and Mrs. Anne Paulin. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115319	It caused a lot of fuss in the Left, yes, even anger, if you are to believe Berlingske, when Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left and the government made this agreement for a temporary family allowance. I guess you can only get angry about that if you think that child poverty is okay. And the fact is that child poverty almost exploded under the previous government and that we reached a number of around 60,000 children who lived in poverty. The fact is also that the temporary family allowance gives a helping hand to some of the most affected. It's 14,000-15,000 families and about 28,000 children. Why all the anger in the Left to give a helping hand to some of the hardest hit by the policy that the Left itself has led to some of the poorest?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115423	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115426	I think we should be careful to shoot each other's motives in the shoes, which we know are not right; in other words, we should think that child poverty is in order. Nobody thinks that way. I believe that the best protection against poverty is work and that the best protection against child poverty is that parents have a job. And when we react to the fact that you raise these benefits, it's because you reduce the incentive to take a job. And I think the best cure for negative social inheritance is work. I think that the best thing for these families is for parents to go to work and for children to see that their parents go to work and to see that this is how you are in this country, that you work if you can. You go to work, you support your own family, and you contribute to society. So this is a way out of poverty. And that's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115526	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115530	You may have the best intentions, but if the facts are that you create poverty, that you get it so that about 60 000 children actually live in poverty, then the intentions or motives do not matter. I believe that if not DKr 3 000, because that is the calculation that came out of it, should be an incentive to actually look for work, then one should be at the good end of the pay scale, for example. Members of parliament or former ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115606	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115609	I think we should have benefits in this country for people who are outside the labour market, as we can be aware. We have to look after each other properly, we have to keep our hands under each other when we are outside the labour market for shorter or longer periods. And the reality is that a couple with one child after tax in total benefits receive DKK 23,100. I think we, as a society, can be familiar with that. And in my optics, it's not something that leads to poverty. But I think that when families in generation after generation are excluded from the labour market, it leads to another form of poverty, and that is what we want to combat.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115650	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last one we get to is Mrs. Anne Paulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115656	Thank you. In an interview with Berlingske, the rapporteur said that the Left must be furiously ambitious when it comes to climate change. Will the rapporteur here today reveal why it has taken the Left so long to join the ambition of 70% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115716	Of course, the naughty answer would have been that we have just been preoccupied with something else. But the real answer is that we are more focused on means than on the goal itself. But it is as if the debate has turned to the fact that the only thing that brings happiness is this objective. The climate minister himself said in the election campaign that this is just a number. We would really rather talk about how to get there. It is freely quoted. It wasn't a quote from the climate minister. But it's more important that we talk about solutions than if the number is 70, 71, 69 or where it is. Now we are there, and now we have this figure in place, and then we look forward to getting into this room and talking about solutions and talking about funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115759	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115800	Thank you. When Conservatives joined the 70 per cent target a few weeks ago, the rapporteur told the TV newspaper that the 70 per cent target is to buy the cat in the bag. Does the rapporteur therefore reject his earlier statement here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115820	No, I'm not going as far as to distance myself. It's gonna be confusing. But I think, as I also tried to say before, that much of this debate has been about this figure, as if it were the only important thing. High ambitions are important and we share the high ambitions. We also share the ambition of these 70%, but I really think it is the solutions that are important. This is the discussion we are looking so much forward to getting started, and these are the solutions that I know the Minister of Climate Affairs is also working on high pressure. We look forward to becoming a part of this, because it is important that Denmark is also a green pioneering country in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003115900	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. I shall now postpone the sitting for a lunch break. We'll start the meeting again at 8:00 a.m. 13.00 with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003130006	We will resume the debate on the Prime Minister's statement from Tuesday. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. We're gonna get a prime minister on the field, too. The Prime Minister is in the hall. So I give the floor to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003130102	Thank you so much. I am glad that the Prime Minister is here, because it would be a shame if the Prime Minister were not here to have all the gold I have prepared. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his post. We in the Danish People's Party have a fundamental respect for Danish democracy, and we have to accept the election result as it was on 5 June. The chairman of the Social Democratic Party was given the mandate to lead a social democratic government. Congratulations. We from the Danish People's Party are ready for both co- and counter-play in the coming years. Thank you, too, to the Prime Minister for his speech on Tuesday. I have to say that it was very well put forward. I want her to have it. But it was as if there was one section missing on each subject, because it was a speech in which the Prime Minister asked more questions than she gave answers. I do not know whether it was for reasons of time that one had simply chosen to take one paragraph away from each subject, but it may be that later in the day we can get the rest of the speech. In this way, however, the Prime Minister came to stress with his speech the point that we heard the Bishop from Aarhus make prior to the opening speech on Tuesday, namely that in politics there are many words, very, very many words, but also that many citizens out there are thirsting for the many words to be translated into concrete action and that there are answers. It was also a speech that contained many contradictions. On the one hand, there were, for example, the desire for proximity reform, fewer rules, less central governance, more self-determination, but not just in relation to the children's institutions where the Prime Minister wants minimum standards. Or what about the police, of which there must be more, and especially more police officers locally? After all, the impression was made that this really is something that is urgent and yet not, because the government has postponed the negotiations on a new multi-year agreement which will ensure that more police, including the near police, will be able to do so until sometime next year. Or what about health, where the government is putting 500 new nurses in view next year, rising to 1,000 new nurses by 2021, but at the same time saying that it doesn't really know where those nurses are supposed to come from. Or, yes, I have to go to the famous Arne, who is going on a folk pension three years before others, if it wasn't just because Arne would rather be on a pre-retirement basis, but where the Prime Minister now says that the government will only once next year reveal how one intends to honour the promises made to Arne and the others? Isn't it called Arne's turn? Then why should Arne wait till next summer? Or what about the area of foreigners, where the Prime Minister, on the one hand, says that she wants to maintain the strict immigration policy, but on the other hand, does a large number of relaxations arise? And then the government clearly has a need to dampen expectations of itself. This is actually quite surprising, given that the new majority in the elections on 5 June was quite massive. Why this hesitation? Why this clear need to speak down expectations in Tuesday's speech? Is it a recognition that one was too generous with the promises in the election campaign that one came to put too much in view for the Danes? In addition to everything I have already mentioned, I could also mention the new near hospitals promised by the Socialists a year ago. New hospitals need to be reopened around the country. When will this initiative be taken, if at all? Much of the consequences of the municipal reform that was carried out in the 00s, the Social Democratic Party went to the polls to be rolled back. Institutions in villages and center cities must be reopened, one could understand. When will that happen, if at all? The educational ceiling had to go away. I think that was something that had to happen quite quickly, but it is not included in the draft budget. When will that happen, if at all? Another ceiling, on the other hand, was to be introduced: a ceiling on the number of new non-western immigrants. When will it be introduced, if at all? Those were clear promises. After all, I myself heard them at many of the joint events that the Prime Minister and I have been to in the last few years, and I want to ensure that the President of the Socialist Party remembers the promises and reminds her of them on various occasions. I can also take another example. Perhaps the Prime Minister remembers his visit to Assens, where the Prime Minister himself brought the pretzel to the coffee. It was with an elderly citizen who felt the consequences of the municipality cutting down on cleaning. The media-covered visit made it clear that if the Social Democracy came to power, things would change, because it was and is unworthy conditions that we experience in the care of the elderly. However, since the elections, we have not heard much about the care of the elderly by the government. In the June paper of understanding, there are a few lines on the conditions of the elderly, and a compensatory reform to ensure a better economy for needy municipalities is scheduled for February. So it will be difficult to achieve real improvements in the economy of the municipalities, at least the economy of the cramped municipalities, for 2021, which is the next place where it is about the budgets of the municipalities. So are the crucial improvements for the elderly postponed for even more years? But back to the Prime Minister's speech from Tuesday: that was the first opening speech by a Social Democrat since Helle Thorning-Schmidt. And it was actually Helle Thorning-Schmidt that I remembered when the Prime Minister on Tuesday warned against an American fund buying our home. But I must admit that at that time it was part of DONG that was sold to Goldman Sachs. It is not certain that that is what the current Prime Minister and Socialist President were thinking about on Tuesday. Although I know the current Socialist President somewhat better than I will ever know Helle Thorning-Schmidt, it is ultimately the policy that determines how to assess. And there is one area that we in the Danish People's Party want to keep a very close eye on this government, namely surprise immigration policy. In the election campaign, the Prime Minister promised the Danes that foreign policy would not be relaxed. She even went so far as to promise that there should be relaxation, at least one bourgeois party should be in on it. She said about the demands we in Denmark make on foreigners that they would never be changed by a narrow red majority. She even said that she would rather not become Prime Minister than agree to a relaxed foreign policy. Today we can take stock of the first few days, is it 98 days? In less than 100 days, 10 relaxations of immigration policy have been announced for the time being, not one tightening, but 10 relaxations. I mentioned before Helle Thorning-Schmidt. She had also promised the Danes a strict foreign policy prior to her accession in 2011, but then managed to implement 45 relaxations on her total 3 years, 9 months and 3 days in power. Then we can do a simple calculation, which I am sure will be a particular pleasure, Mr President. Morten Østergaard. For the new Social Democratic Prime Minister continues the pace from her first almost 100 days, and sits as long as Helle Thorning-Schmidt, yes, then the current government reaches a total of 136 relaxations of the immigration policy, or to put it another way: three times as many relaxations of the immigration policy as we saw under the former Social Democratic government in the period 2011-2015. It's quite a horror to look forward to. The benefits for immigrant families are increased. This makes it more attractive to apply to Denmark. It relaxes those who have otherwise been refused asylum or who are on toiled stays and should leave Denmark. The return policy agreed with the Finance Act this year, the so-called paradigm change, is being undermined and more are now being allowed to stay in Denmark. The Prime Minister spoke a lot last Tuesday in his speech about trust and trust in each other, which is of course crucially important, but also the citizens' confidence in us politicians. With a rapidly growing population in Africa and the Middle East, 1.2 billion people in Africa are expected to double up to 2050; more and more will be going towards Europe; a new Italian government that is now relaxing its course towards migrants seeking the Mediterranean; an unpredictable Turkey; 10,700 migrants to Greece only in September; EU countries that are now beginning to make a distribution policy that makes it more attractive to try illegal travel to Europe; it is more important than ever that we keep a tight course in the area of foreigners. It is not time to relax foreign policy. When you think it is so horrible that so many policemen in Central Jutland should spend their time on foreigners at Kærshovedgård, who do not fulfil their reporting obligations, then we must put more pressure on the foreigners who are illegally staying in Denmark and refuse to leave, as SF and Radicals suggested yesterday, by relaxing control of the illegal aliens. And since Lindholm is canceled, that's the easy part... where do you want them to stay? Should they then in Soulsmark and make life more secure for the citizens of that area, that is, now that they rejected asylum seekers there apparently have to be rewarded for not having left the country? There are many questions for the new government. In the Danish People's Party we are ready for the work, both to work together when we get the opportunity to influence the line, but also to give active resistance when we think things are pulling off. We are ready to work together to secure the climate for future generations. If we are to succeed, Danish society as a whole must be prepared to join forces in order to do so in a way that also ensures Denmark's growth and jobs in the future, so that it is not winding up, but development. However, we are also ready to counter the government when it shows mercy to more EU regulation or mercy to its support parties in foreign policy. This means that the cohesion force in Denmark will be reduced and that confidence will be reduced. And was it not exactly the confidence that was the decisive word in the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131107	Thank you for your speech to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then we have to go to the question round and the first brief remark goes to Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131117	Thank you. The rapporteur began by promising gold grains from the platform. I do not know whether we got all the way up there, but thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for the extended hand to the government in terms of cooperation in those areas where the rapporteur sees the possibility of doing so. I also thought it was positive to hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned Arne. It may almost sound as if we have a common interest in finding a good solution with early retirement, worthy withdrawal, for people who are worn out. It has to be said that the rapporteur has had a fairly central role in relation to the pre-retirement wage almost abolished in 2011. Subsequently, attempts have been made to patch up the situation with a senior early retirement pension, which was very little sought, and subsequently a new agreement which is still waiting to be implemented. I would really like to hear the rapporteur give a clear answer as to whether it is the view of the Danish People's Party that we need to make a new arrangement, find a new solution for people who have worked hard for many years on the labour market and who need to be able to retire worthily earlier than is possible today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131223	Thank you very much for addressing that part of the ongoing discussion. I think it is incredibly important that we show that those who are worn out on the Danish labour market have improved conditions in order to be able to withdraw. I think that's a really, really good idea. I think this was the first time in 2006, in the public debate, I mentioned the desire that if you could make a model in which people who have been on the labour market for many years could withdraw in physically grueling jobs a little before others, that would be very, very good. But ever since then I've been taught by all those who think they themselves know about this area, and they say that you can't make a fair model, so you simply can't define what it is for a bricklayer, what it is for a carpenter, what it is for a sosu assistant, what it is for a nurse, that is, where it is, you have to set the limit of who comes under the scheme and who doesn't. There the Social Democrats have said to the Danes that a solution can be found to this, and the Social Democrats can find a solution to that. Ever since the Social Democrats said that back in January, we have asked the Social Democrats whether they would show us that. Now we stand here in October and are told that we may see the Social Democrats' bid for something like this next summer. I think that's a little long for Arne and the rest of us to wait.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131334	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131335	Thank you. The Social Democrats have certainly not promised that the task is easy, but it is true, as the rapporteur says, that the Social Democrats have promised that we will make a bid because we think this is important. I also take the rapporteur's answer to my question as an undertaking that the Danish People's Party is ready to negotiate a solution that will ensure an earlier withdrawal. There has been a discussion in the past about whether there is conciliation law in the way of making an actual agreement, but the Minister for Employment and the system clearly stated that it does not. I am a little interested to hear whether the rapporteur shares the view that there is no conciliation law in the way that we can make an agreement if we can get the ends to meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131416	I think it was the Prime Minister who, in his capacity at that time, said that now the Christiansborg tactics or such conciliation law at Christiansborg should not stand in the way of us having a substantive discussion about the conditions of the worn-out, and I would really just like to say that that is where we stand. What we miss is that somebody is laying a model on the table for how to make a distinction that seems reasonable, including for those who are not going to be on the wagon. I mean, how do you guarantee the conditions of these people? Last time I looked it up, it was 280,000 who are still part of the early retirement scheme and who are paying for the early retirement, even though it is a scheme that the Social Democratic Party is touring around saying has been abolished. Arne, as I have understood from a journalist present at the Social Democratic Congress, says that he would rather be on early retirement than on such a scheme as the Social Democrats are talking about here, but he is the spearhead of having to be inside the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131506	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131508	Thank you very much, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a fantastic presentation. I am very pleased with the concern expressed in relation to the policy of social democracy on foreigners, because I myself find it very difficult to understand it and to describe the policy of foreigners. For before the election, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said there was an ambition to work with the Blue Block on a tight immigration policy, and now, on the other hand, it is relaxation in cooperation with the Red Parties. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, for the sake of my understanding, help me try to describe the policy of social democracy on foreigners? Sometimes it is good to get a picture of things so visually, so that we could take a member of the animal kingdom, i.e. an animal simply, it could, for example. be a lion who proudly fights for what it has dearly, or an ostrich that sticks its head in the ground, or perhaps a chameleon that changes color at will. But the animal kingdom is great, as I said, so I'll leave it up to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's fantasy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131610	I can look down and try to see what I get from associations. And time's up. Yeah, that's good about you guys. Well, I was in a very mysterious situation when I was in the debate with Clement Kjersgaard on Tuesday and had a duel with Mr. Kjersgaard. Morten Østergaard. The weird thing was that I had to go over to sir's office. Morten Østergaard's side and I agree with him with such a journalist, and that is rare, but I had to do so there because Mr. Østergaard told about all the relaxations he had now got through in foreign policy. A great change, a new direction, a new system change, I think Mr. Østergaard even described it as. And I just have to say that with what I also read in my speech, which was based on quotes from the Social Democratic Party from the election campaign, the former Prime Minister was so right when he said that you take colour from those you work with. We have to say that the Social Democratic Party has taken colour from the Radical Left in foreign policy, and that is bad for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131719	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131720	Thank you for a fine answer. And if I may make the subject a little more specific and this time bypass the animal kingdom, I would ask whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl continues to trust the Prime Minister when she says that she will continue with a strict foreign policy, given the many relaxations that have been made since the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131742	No, it is quite obvious that on this point the Social Democratic President as Prime Minister has come really badly from the start.And I am also using the opening debate today to appeal to the Social Democratic Party to remember what was said in the election campaign. It is clear that if we now make a financial law in the autumn, where we are making new concessions, because new concessions are being pushed through, then we are in an even worse place when we meet again than we are now. Now it is the first ten relaxations that we are talking about and the effect of them, and if we can then see that it continues at that rate, yes, then I have said that in reality you are doing three times as much damage if you just look at it in relation to the number, Mr President. Morten Østergaard, as Helle Thorning-Schmidt did when she was Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131829	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131832	Cheer up, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, it's gonna be okay, I think. In any case, it can be said that when it comes to the Danish People's Party, they don't even have to work with people to take colour from them. Because I feel that the green colour we have always worn in the Radical Left has also rubbed off on Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti. I understand that a problem has been found here, that is to say climate change, which cannot be solved with a border boom, and it is in itself epoch-making for the Danish People's Party that there is something here that looks and has an international outlook. It's strong. I would just like to congratulate you unreservedly on agreeing to the 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark by 2030, and then just ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to say today, so that we can say it again from the platform. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has also made it clear that it is about a 70% reduction in Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003131933	It is absolutely right that we think it is important to take climate change seriously and that it is incredibly important that we work together to accomplish that task. As I also said in my speech, I do not believe that it can be achieved unless, in a very, very broad cooperation, both here in the Folketing, but also with industry, agriculture and so on, we stand together and find solutions to reach it. After all, it is a clear realization, including on the part of the government, that one has no idea how to achieve the 70-percent reduction. So we have to have some really, really thorough discussions on how to achieve that goal. We have to achieve that goal in a way that I also say in my speech so that you still have growth and development in Denmark so that you do not dismantle. It is not a goal for us to achieve 70 per cent, for example, by achieving 70 per cent. If you increase pig production in Ukraine and Poland, then a greater climate footprint will come out of it. I don't know if it's sir. Morten Østergaard's way of solving it. Now, like the introduction, I thought that there was joy in finding something here, that there was something above national borders that we had to look at. But exactly in the last part of Morten Østergaard's speech, it narrowed down to Denmark, and there was nothing at all about the world at all. So we also see it as a larger whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132045	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132046	It is only in the world of the Danish People's Party that you either have to cooperate internationally or do it yourself. The whole point of the fight against climate change is, of course, that everyone has to tighten up. All countries have to do their utmost, and that is where we see an opportunity for Denmark to be in the green driver's shirt and show the way. It's just where you get a little worried, when you can't get Mr. Kim anyway. Kristian Thulesen Dahl to take the words in his mouth that it is about Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 to be reduced by 70%. And that's because I and I use a terminology. Kristian Thulesen Dahl cares a lot about the number in this context. The number of tons of CO2 Kristian Thulesen Dahl thinks we should reduce by, what is the number?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132134	I fully agree that the number matters. It also matters whether we remove a CO2 2 You can also take a different example from agriculture. I've visited Aalborg Portland several times. I guess you're in charge of 2%. of Denmark's energy consumption, and part of it is based on fossil fuels. I also think that the Prime Minister is quite familiar with Aalborg Portland as a large company in North Jutland. If we close Aalborg Portland tomorrow, we will have fulfilled a lot of Denmark's obligations, but what good is it if we still have to use the cement and then import it from a factory in Turkey where the climate impression is greater? That is why we must achieve this objective, which we have agreed to, in a way that ensures that we live up to the things we set ourselves as targets, but do so in a way that we do not just export a problem to other countries. Then we haven't solved anything. Right here, I actually thought I'd found some way through to the radical president.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132233	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr from the SF. No, she's just deleted from the list here, so we're moving on to mr. Karsten Hønge from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132245	After all, the Danish People's Party is part of the agreement on a new early retirement pension, and I think it will end up with everyone voting in favour when that proposal comes, because as I see it, it helps as much as 130 people per year. It is mostly to stir around in the pots; the scheme will include 17,150 people, but it is of course people who come from other transfer income. Actually, it will help 130 people a year. I feel that modest people can certainly have such an appealing touch, but is that really the level of ambition of the Danish People's Party? 130 people a year? Now we can go back to the animal kingdom: Are you mice or men in the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132334	Well, that's a funny question. So the first one, not the last one. Because, as far as the 130 people are concerned, it is strange that the SF will vote for it if it is really so miserable about the senior pension. If people are so worn out that they cannot work 15 hours a week, then it is not logical that they have experienced, for example. a course of illness that they have been in and out of the labour market for periods of time? In other words, it is a question of people who have worn and dragged themselves to 6 years before the age of retirement to be entitled to a dignified departure from the part of the labour market they have been on. It's logical, then, that many of these people don't come from a full-time job and into a one-hundred-percent quote sign... sick report that entitles senior pension. That's logical. So I think it is a very, very strange way of putting it up that it is 130 people involved. I would have almost said that, if so, why would the SF even vote in favour? For then it will be a very, very expensive solution for 130 people. It is then about a lot of people who get calm in the soul because they know that the 6 years before the retirement age can actually be allowed to get a benefit in a more dignified way and not be burdened by the fact that they are questioned by the municipality's job centres and must come to conversations and all sorts of things. SF should be cheerful about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132448	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132450	We do not rejoice, but of course we are glad that 130 people are now actually found who are so worn out that they can go from full-time work to retirement. So it's better than what we have today, because what we have today is no good at all. So it's not that hard to figure out why we're voting for it. But what I asked was: is it really the level of ambition in the Danish People's Party? And there is the question again: Are you mice, or are you men, when it comes to really reaching out a helping hand to those people who are either worn out or have been on the labour market for a long time? It can then lead to the next question: When we can find a model for the relationship between how many years you have been on the labour market and when you get the opportunity to retire, is that a thinking that the Danish People's Party can agree to? Would you like to raise a hand, or would you like to tighten your legs here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132531	At some point we are going to have a long debate on senior pensions in this Chamber. I hope that it will be unfolded, that it will be quite a lot more people than 130 who will feel helped by that arrangement. But I'll come back to that. In relation to this, if we can then take further steps to help worn-out seniors, I would say: yes, of course we can, and we are quite prepared to enter into that discussion. And when the Social Democratic Party apparently wants to wait until next summer, it may be that the SF will become more impatient and will put a proposal on the table in advance on what one is aiming for and how one intends to get it through, that is, who should have the right to such an arrangement on an objective basis that if one has worked as a bricklayer for so many years, one has the right to go on a folk pension before others. And then I'd love to see it. Too many people are talking about this, but those who challenge us on the issue are very, very sluggish about putting anything on the table about what they imagine they want our support for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132623	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132625	Thank you. I would like to continue a little on the same street, because now I have heard Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl talked about a man named Arne very many times. And I can understand that. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, that in the Danish People's Party one can hardly wait to get started helping Arne. There is simply too much time for spring, and I agree with that, because I am also extremely impatient. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also just before that in the Danish People's Party you actually want improvements for people who are worn out in the years up to the retirement age you would really like to do something for them. There's a lot of evidence to suggest that there's a whole lot we can agree on. Then I would like to have a very concrete promise from the Danish People's Party about something else that will happen next year. In addition to talking more about Arne, there will also be a vote on whether the retirement age should rise again. So it's not just this famous model that we're all looking forward to seeing. But does the retirement age have to rise again? Will the Danish People's Party vote in favour or against when it comes to the vote in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132735	So, of course, we will vote in favour because we have a settlement; we have an agreement with other parties, and the agreements that the Danish People's Party enters into, we keep. You can count on the Danish People's Party. So it is clear that when we have not said in the run-up to the elections that we will not be part of that agreement anymore, we are part of that agreement in this parliamentary term. It is the Social Democrats who have come to the polls that, alongside it, they will invent a scheme in which some selected groups will have the right to retire before others. Then we just say that if you have to live up to the promise that you have made to the Danes, you have to start by putting on the table for all of us, what you want to see implemented. Well, what kind of model is that? 'Cause it's easy enough to say "as Mr. Karsten Hønge will make such a model, so that you will give more rights for some selected groups to be able to retire earlier. The difficult thing is to explain to the bricklayer who does not get that right or the carpenter who does not get that right or the nurse who does not get the right that they did not just join the group. That responsibility has to be assumed, I think, when one has come to the polls on such a scheme and when it may have been a factor in winning the elections, that one has promised it here. So my impatience is not only on behalf of Arne but also on behalf of many others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132844	I just think that there is something else that is really difficult to explain, and that is that you spend virtually all your speaking time calling for a model for some groups. You travel land and rich. I followed you very closely when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl practically traveled all of Denmark thinly and talked about how the retirement age should not rise more than already agreed, as it sounded. I mean, you're so preoccupied with that model missing. And I agree, because I am also really concerned that this model is missing. I'd like to see it, uh, how excited I am, and I think there are a lot of people outside who are really excited. But I also think that they have a really hard time understanding how it can be that the Danish People's Party is so much after some others to get them to bring that model on the field and so completely without even breaking their voice or shaking their hands saying: Yes, we are just setting up the retirement age for everyone, it is going to rise. Isn't there any people there who deserve an explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003132938	Well, it's quite openly laid out. After all, it is for years that a broad majority of the Folketing parties have had that agreement. After all, all the discussions that have taken place here have also been based on the fact that there is a very, very broad majority common agreement in here. I'm not running away from that at an opening debate like this. We stand by what we have said; we stand by what we have promised the Danes. We stand by the agreements we have made here in the Folketing. Then we make a senior pension so that those who are worn out will have the opportunity to leave the labour market six years before the retirement age. We would very much like to take new initiatives in relation to retraining, in relation to aid to the worn out, because the paradox here is that we have reached the moment when more than half of those who could have actually left are somehow stuck on the labour market. Because there are also a lot of people who want to stay on the labour market. What we have to give the opportunity to do is to help those who are physically unable to cope either, of course, dignified out of the labour market or to be able to commit themselves in a way in the labour market where it can work for them. There we need to be much better as a society, and we would very, very much like to work with the whole parliament on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133044	Thank you. Let's move on to the question line. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133048	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now to something quite different: we have made a very good agreement, the former government and the Danish People's Party, to tighten up the penalties for violation of the obligation to stay and report, because we have an idea that when we are not allowed to lock the doors, it must have some consequences that are quite significant. We've lifted the penalty very significantly for violating this. This has given rise to tremendous challenges. We've heard about it in the Central and West Jutland Police Department. A lot more cops than we expected, it's gonna have to be spent on it. And then I'm gonna ask you about Mr. Simpson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, as part of the conciliation circle, will help us perhaps go together to the Minister and say that we need to find a solution on this. Until more officers are trained, you must move around so that a police group should not be unduly strained by the presence of an exit centre there. 'Cause it doesn't look like we're gonna get it moved, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133143	We would be very happy to do so, but on the clear assumption that we do not relax the demands of the foreigners who are on toiled and who, as I said, must be stressed, understood in the sense that they must have an interest in leaving this country. In other words, we are talking about a number of people who have been convicted of rape, of murder, of drug crime and who have been expelled from Denmark in connection with the sentence for it and who do not want to leave Denmark. So these people need to feel stressed in everyday life. They should not feel that it is a dance on roses to be in Danish society. That is why we have tightened it up in good cooperation, including with Mr Beazley. Søren Pape Poulsen. We have tightened the rules very significantly so that people, for example. must comply with their reporting obligations. And when they don't, they're gonna go to jail. It annoys them, yes. We must provide the police resources to ensure that we can hold on to it. This is one of the ways in which we can ensure that these people find out at some point that they have to execute the expulsion sentence they have actually been given, rather than sticking around in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133247	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133250	I fully agree that this is not really about relaxing what we have adopted, because that would be bad. You can also hope that this is a temporary hump, because when you break the reporting obligation so many times, they get so hard sentences that they go to prison for a long time then we have the challenge there. But at least I'm happy to hear the undertaking. I think it is simply important that the citizens of a police group should not be burdened by the fact that an exit centre has happened there. And then we just have a challenge with the prosecution. I think we should also discuss this with the Minister now that we have to wait a year, unfortunately, for a new multi-annual agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133322	In fact, that is also one of the reasons why I had included in my speech earlier on that we are annoyed that we have to wait a year to have the debate on a new multi-annual agreement. Because some of the things we talk about are urgent. That's also why it's a little paradoxical. If we all agree that it is indeed urgent to strengthen the police and the prosecution and so on, why should we wait a year to take serious action with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133346	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133350	Thank you. A great deal has happened since Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's speech on 26 May. Now the Danish People's Party has also chosen to support a 70-percent reduction target. It may be a little wonder that the chairman of the Danish People's Party argues that one supports this objective in order to keep the Enhedslisten and the Alternative out of influence, in other words by accepting the policy with which we stood seven months ago alone. But that aside. I would like to hear from the Danish People's Party whether it is intended to be real reductions, not to continue for the last four years such little desk exercises and quota games, etc., but real reductions in relation to greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133437	When I talk about giving the government a choice between who to work on about these things, it is of course because some of the proposals that have come from the Alternative and Enhedslisten in my optics have more to do with winding up than with developing, and we want to develop Danish society and also to continue to have jobs, growth and such things and things. Of course, there are some choices in terms of how to reach the goal. In relation to the second thing about whether it should all be such a desk technique or whether one should actually have realities into it: of course we must have realities into it. There I agree with the Prime Minister, when she says that we can show it, by the fact that there is a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who now accepts that we are going fully into this work, together with a business community that has reported completely clear, an agriculture that has shown that you can actually have an increasing production in Denmark with a falling climate pattern. Well, there are so many players in this that will make this real that wants real change in Denmark, so that's the way we go. I firmly believe that this can be done with all the actors who have signed up now to work for the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133542	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133545	Well, it's nice to be kept out of influence if you get your policy implemented that way. I can only be happy about that. So when we say a 70-percent reduction in greenhouse gases, does the Danish People's Party agree that it is also important to address, for example, Danish Agriculture and not do desk exercises a la LULUCF etc., and what can be done in the climate area, but actually make real reductions also in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133611	We had the first man in agriculture, Martin Merrild, as a guest speaker at our annual meeting a few weeks ago, and he could also show how since 1990 agriculture has been able to have a larger production of agricultural products in Denmark with a lower climate footprint. It is clear that agriculture really wants to be a part of this. What we hope to achieve by engaging in this discussion is, in fact, the fact that you see the agricultural industry as a player and not a opponent, and it is also about how you work in terms of research. For there are a lot of people who would like to, but no one knows exactly how the 70-percent target is to be achieved. At least the government says it doesn't know. So it's all about researching and developing and finding new ways, and we look forward to going into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133701	Thank you. Then we move on to New Citizens. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133704	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a fine review. As has been said, DF now backs a 70-percent reduction of CO2 In addition, on 13 September this year, it could be read that DF will spend half of the annual development aid, i.e. 8.3 billion Danish tax dollars, on climate action in other countries. This amount corresponds to approx. 20,000 sosu positions. Does DF consider that it is more important to use Danish tax dollars on climate measures in foreign countries rather than, for example, to take care of older people in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133747	No, we don't think so. However, as Mrs Pernille Vermund rightly says, a great deal of money is being spent today, 0.7 per cent. We believe that a greater proportion of the money spent there should be used to alleviate some of the climate change that is happening. If, for example, we do not know what to do. to avoid migrants flowing to Europe in even greater numbers, we need people to understand that they must stay in the areas of the world where they are today. With a population of 1.2 billion in Africa, which up to 2050 will expect to double, and if there are climate change that means that there are some places where it will be harder to live, it will give common sense that we help to live elsewhere in our own part of the world rather than go to Europe. So I think it is common sense that we are looking at how a larger part of Danish development aid can really also help to ensure the adjustments to a new situation arising from climate change rather than not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133858	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133900	It is quite true that all research shows that development aid is at best a waste of money and, at worst, counterproductive. That is also why New Citizens believe that it should be abolished. Having said that, I have to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, on Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl can understand if there are older people sitting around the nursing homes in Denmark wondering that Dansk Folkeparti will spend 8 billion Danish tax dollars or more than 8 billion Danish tax dollars to send out to foreign countries where wind turbines are to be built, or whatever you are going to do, rather than spend the money on what DF tends to look up on: care and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133944	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will be allowed to answer in a moment, but I cannot see the Prime Minister here from my place. We need to make sure that she is in the Chamber, because that is her statement. That's good. Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003133956	Thank you. No, I think they will wonder that New Citizens will not help to ensure that people can stay in the regions of the world from which they actually come, but will create an even greater breeding ground for those people to move to Europe and to Denmark. I think they'll be wondering. I actually think they can understand if we spend more of the money we spend in development aid, as Mrs Pernille Vermund says is wasted money, because that is actually what she has said, and it will spend more on something that is useful, that is to say, really ensure that if an area where people live today is flooded and there are perhaps hundreds of thousands, millions, of people who cannot live there, then we will help them to live elsewhere in their own neighbourhood. In fact, I think that many of our older fellow citizens in Denmark could think: it is actually very sensible for Denmark to be involved in this. So this is actually a way of recovering something that Mrs Pernille Vermund herself thinks we are not using as useful today. I actually thought she'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134051	Thank you. Then we move on to the question line. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134058	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. It is no secret that there have sometimes been some difficulties in cooperation between our parties, and that is why I would like to acknowledge that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, after the elections, has clearly said that it was probably not so fortunate that we have spent so much time arguing with each other and that we now profess to be a blue bloc and a bourgeois policy. There has also been a very general talk that civil recovery and civil cooperation must begin, and I think that we might as well start now. So, following on from all that, I really want to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: Where is it that he sees the best opportunities for cooperation and the greatest political similarities between our parties? And, of course, following on from the fact that one is confessing to bourgeois economic policy, what tax relief does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl doing with the Liberal Alliance in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134156	Very elegant. The analysis of the last parliamentary term is absolutely correct, and we do not really need to spend much more time on it. Then it is true that we went to the polls on a tax freeze. Well, we were so happy with the old Left President Anders Fogh Rasmussen's talk about tax freezes that we actually think that it should also be conducted as a policy after 2019, and that is because we want to have some peace around the tax. What is now happening with the new government and the majority is that there are a large number of proposals for tax increases. There we also agree with the proposal for adoption that we have presented to the Danish Parliament today, where we want to express a common concern about what effect it has on Danish society, in the recognition that it is also growth and jobs, etc., that creates the breeding ground for the welfare society, in other words where we can distribute a lot of benefits through our common tax payment. So I guess that's where we have something in common. I know that the Liberal Alliance has gone to the polls on its own optics. It is a much more ambitious tax policy than the Danish People's Party, but it doesn't matter that we are a little different on such a point either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134302	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134306	I myself have tried to think about what might be, what can we say, the new great hope of cooperation between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, and I know that the rapporteur is concerned that Arne can retire early. Could it be imagined that the ambition must be that Arne should not wait to win a Social Democratic lottery or 90 seats in the Folketing, but that we should strive to ensure better opportunities to save up for withdrawal, where one decides when one withdraws, by higher deductions and better savings opportunities? Or is it not a method that the Danish People's Party wants to use?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134345	It is clear that already today a lot of Danes have savings that at least give them a greater opportunity than others to choose when to retire, and we will also be able to see in the years to come that the more people who get more savings for their own pension, the more flexibility it provides in relation to when you think the right retirement time is. It has to be said that those we often talk about when we talk about senior pensions, when we talk about Arne etc. are those who have typically worked in physically hard industries and for many years, also in job types, where you typically have not received such high wages and where, unfortunately, savings are not so great. They do not have the same opportunity as those who today have the flexibility, and we must look into them in particular. That is why we have an outstretched hand in relation to it, and if there are some models to help those people better, we are quite ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134438	Then it's mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134440	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to ask a brief question, because I believe and hope that we share the concern about some of the worn out in our labour market. So I'd just like to ask if Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that with the agreements that have been concluded, we have dealt with the problems of wear and tear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134501	No, I do not think we do; that is not my view. And already in the agreement on senior pensions from the spring, a number of things have been written in to be done in the future. I mean, we need to be much better at dealing with worn-out people, also in relation to the opportunity to be retrained. Well, we need to be better at clarifying people's situation more quickly. There are a lot of people who feel at the edge of the labour market and feel like throwing ball in our system.That's why there is such a strong criticism of the municipalities' job centres and the like. We are simply not good enough there and more initiatives need to be taken. The working environment is an obvious thing. It is clear that there are people who work in industries where you become very worn out and where you cannot look forward to working until you are 69 years old in the future or 70 years or more if the old age of the population is going to go beyond it, and you may well have some doubts as to whether it should at all, but that is what right now lies there will not be able to cope with it with the types of work they now have. So there is also the question of whether they can improve their working environment at all so that they can stay so long in the labour market. There are a lot of things we need to take initiatives for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134607	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134609	Thank you. Of course, I share the view of that part of the working environment and other efforts, but I ask more specifically whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes that other opportunities are needed to withdraw from the labour market not only to be better cared for in the labour market, but to withdraw from the labour market earlier or that that part of the senior pension scheme has been taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134634	Well, we agreed on the senior pension scheme, but it hasn't been introduced yet. It is intended to ensure that six years before the retirement age you can retire; it aims to ensure that it becomes a new system not in the municipalities, but anchored in the state where you have to find out who is entitled to it here. So it should very much be something that will work. I also understand that the Social Democratic Party supports the implementation of the senior pension agreement, and I think that is very good. As I also said, I think it was in 2006 that I said it the first time I could really like a model in which people who have been on the labour market for many years, especially if they have worked in physically grueling industries, have the opportunity to retire before others. And then we'll be back at the good Arne, and if there'll be a model at some point. Because the hard part is not to say it, that one would like it; the hard part is to find out who is inside and who is outside such a scheme. And that is what we look forward to seeing if there is a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134730	I think we are leaving Arne and moving on to Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134735	I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for a very fine speech, a speech in which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl keeps the Prime Minister up on her own words and promises. These are both the very unconcrete ones that we received in the opening speech on Tuesday, but also the enormously concrete promises that were made before the election campaign. Now Mr. Jesper Petersen today on debureaucratisation. However, it was a little tricky to give a concrete answer to what should be debureaucraticized. And concrete answers are, of course, some of the things we lack from the Social Democrats in general. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl on the care of the elderly, which I know is one of the things that is very much at the heart of the Danish People's Party: could Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not help Mr. Jesper Petersen and the Social Democratic Party a little bit with where to debureaucratize in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134828	I think it is a very good agenda to debureaucratize. Do you think anyone would object to that? I don't think there is. Everyone agrees that we must debureaucratize. Changing governments have decided to do so. Then the results have been small, then there has been a disappointment, and then a new government will come along and say: now we must debureaucratise. We also heard it in the care of the elderly last Tuesday. We saw that the Elders case was out to express a deep concern because the Prime Minister came to say that it is also about abolishing the free choice model. It did, of course, that the Elders Case went out and warned about just that and said that it also has something to do with the quality of life of the individual elderly, that one has the opportunity to choose oneself. What was then a debate on this morning and which I think can be an inspiration to continue working on this was, of course, whether you can arrange it in a different way, so that it is not so based on minutes for certain things. It could, for example, be done. be like what we did together with the rock map scheme, where, as older people, you get some rights to decide that those who come into your home can spend some time on what you think is the most logical thing. So the rock card model is an example of something that might inspire others to work with better conditions in the care of the elderly in an unbureaucratic way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134947	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003134948	I very much agree with the Danish People's Party on this. Another thing we have talked a great deal about today is the abolition of the after-earnings, wear and tear, and Arne you are tempted to say poor Arne who now wants him to just get an early retirement. That makes me think back a little when we abolished the early retirement. After all, I am not so old in politics, and I understand from the Social Democrats that one of the worst things that has happened at all is that we have abolished the post-retirement pay. Well, then, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl did not help me, but in particular my Socialist colleagues in this Chamber today, by outlining what kind of minister signed the law where we abolished the post-retirement pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135037	Yeah, now I see she's changed her seat, but I think it's only for a little while. It was the present Prime Minister. We know it was. Now she is sitting with the chairman of the party that she will say forced her to do so. But that is the way things can go so badly in Danish politics, and now we may see the same thing happening for the next four years. We hope not. But I just wanted to say that I've been feeling a little weird about the fact that the post-retirement pay has been abolished. The last time I looked it up and now someone has to correct me, if they have a better figure... it was 280,000 Danes who pay for the early retirement scheme. It is therefore a system that we are talking about as one that has been abolished. The 280,000 expect to have some sort of arrangement for those who can retire three years before the present conditions or receive the tax-free premium if they continue to work. You haven't stepped out of that arrangement. It applies to them. So it's a scheme you can be a part of if you want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135135	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135140	Thank you. The Danish People's Party recently suggested that parents who want to take care of their children at home can receive DKK 19,000. a month. And the Danish People's Party is also very much in favour of forcing parents living in vulnerable residential areas to send their children to day care, otherwise they will lose child benefit. So that means that an ordinary Danish family, the Hussein family, who live on the right side of the road, can get DKK 19,000. a month to care for their children at home, while the Hansen family, who live on the wrong side of the road in a exposed residential area, may be deducted from a substantial part of their income base if they choose to care for their children at home. What does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Dansk Folkeparti do that kind of discrimination does by the cohesion and harmony of Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135235	Well, our position is that we have some parallel societies in Denmark. Despite the initiatives we have taken, we still have pockets away in Danish society, where things are completely different from those in the ordinary Danish society, where we have some parallel societies that are more based on the faith and culture that one came from originally when the families came to Denmark. This is a huge problem, and we have then tried to define ourselves out of it, i.e. how we define these parallel societies, in order to be able to take some specific initiatives in relation to those areas. And there it is part of getting the children to be an active part of Danish society and to be fully integrated into it, that they come to a children's institution and do not go at home, where you hear Arab television channels or what you do. Well, it's just a goal for us to get these areas in the goose-eyes back to Danish society. But it should not shadow the fact that we basically have the attitude that we think that if ordinary Danish families want to spend some of the first years of their child's life to be more at home with that child and help to be an active part of that child's life, there must be better opportunities for it. And that is why we have made that proposal and have put it forward with that definition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135347	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135349	I don't think the Hansen family in the exposed residential area is watching Arabic television all day and showing it to their children. But all right, I can then conclude that discrimination is one of the favours of the Danish People's Party. What about equality in the labour market? Has Dansk Folkeparti and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl any calculations of what this proposal will do in relation to men and women on the Danish labour market? How many people are we pulling out of the Danish labour market? And what does Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl it will do in relation to equality in the labour market? Is it the men, or is it the women who choose to resign?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135427	Now, we'll leave that up to the families. And it is true that if there are such families that leave the mother more at home, then they have chosen it. And it is not a goal for us to control the choices of families here. It is a goal for us to give families freedom of choice. It is also when, for example, the European Union. Involves itself in the rules on maternity leave. In other words, when the European Union comes and tells the Danish Parliament that we are not big enough to assess the distribution of maternity leave between fathers and mothers in a family ourselves, we also say that it does not work. Then we say to the EU: stay out of this; we can find out for ourselves in Denmark. And we will then leave the choice to the individual family. And then we have left it to the individual family to respect the choice they make; that is how they want to set themselves up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135513	Then it's mr. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135517	Thanks for the speech. Now Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and Mr. A few minutes ago, Alex Vanopslagh discussed warmly what ties the two parties together. In the wake of that, I would like to ask you now, when our parties in the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party share a common veneration for the welfare society, what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl believes about the government's draft Finance Act, which after all compensates for demographic development and thus increases welfare quite significantly in the coming year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135549	After all, we ourselves have chosen to allow the public sector to grow with at least what is similar to this so-called demographic development, so that when we grow older and more children etc., the money must be able to keep up with it and, of course, it is also a recognition that otherwise, for that reason alone, there will be cuts because we are not sending enough money. So basically we are in favour of an economic policy that sets that course, and that is why we were also pleased in the election campaign, because I think they have been freed a little about that this morning, in fact, as many interpreted it, changed course and said that now they were also on a way forward, at least towards 2025, where the public sector will grow with what needs to be done, in order to at least solve the problem of more elderly people and more children, etc. Then we have in selected areas, among others. the elderly, a desire for more money to be spent in addition to that. We went to the polls for that too. Because if we have to solve the tasks, especially in the area of the elderly, then we simply believe that more money is needed. There is a lack of clarification, as I said in my speech. That is where I think some passages have disappeared in the Prime Minister's speech, because something was simply missing about what to do for the elderly. But I think we'll come back to that tonight when the PM answers and everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135658	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135700	Now, according to the Ministry of Finance, the demography was undercompensated in the previous three years, and that is why I think it gives us cause to ask, then, if not, Mr President-in-Office? Kristian Thulesen Dahl could imagine that there is a better basis for working together to develop the welfare society in the coming years with the current government than with the previous one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135721	But now we are working with those who are, because we have fundamental respect for democracy and for the people's elections. There has been a new government and if we can have any influence on the policy pursued, we will take that influence. So it is at least an undertaking that we will bid in this parliamentary term. And the places where we can have some influence on the direction of the policy, and it is on that basis that I say here where we want to go, well then we are quite ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135744	The last one asks, we're gonna get there in relation to Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135751	It's really nice that we can just reach me, because the next question is very important for SF. In the election campaign, the Danish People's Party supported minimum standards, and I really just want to know if this means that the Danish People's Party will also vote for minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135809	We will see what is being put forward and what is going to happen. After all, we have a very, you might say, unideological entrance to the matter of how to run the public sector. What matters to us is what the result is and where the money is made available for it. So we are very excited about the debate that is now going to be in connection with the Finance Act and where we understand that SF will make a demand of 0.5 billion. kr. to the area next year. Then we have to assume that there must be more money, a doubling or something similar in the years after. So we will look at the concrete model that is being put on the table and take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135846	Mrs. Ina Strjer-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135849	Well, I do have a concrete model, and the rapporteur can, of course, deal with it appropriately. In the SF we support a model that is called: at least one adult for three nursery children and at least one adult for six kindergarten children. That is the model we hope will be implemented. Could the Danish People's Party support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003135911	In other words, we take the view that when you deliver your children to the day care institution, you have to be sure that the child is well. And there we saw in the election campaign, but we have also seen in the past that there are now places where things are not working well enough, and we would very much like to help ensure that this will be different. We ourselves also raised this discussion in the election campaign about how often an educator is on guard alone, because it is a particular challenge if you have many situations in extreme hours where you stand alone with a group of children. When things get out of hand, it can sometimes be too much, and that's when we see some stupid situations. There are different ways to solve this problem. Now the SF has its model, and we are very excited to hear more. We understand that this is a very important requirement for SF, just as there are other things. There were also ultimate demands in the election campaign in relation to the first financial law to be implemented. So it will be exciting to see how all the ends come together in the negotiations that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003140007	Thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Then it is the Radical Left's turn in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003140016	It is said that it has never been better to live anywhere than in Europe today, especially if you are a woman. And there is hardly any place, any country in the world where we have more opportunity to shape our own future than Denmark right now. Never have so many received an education; never has so much power come from sustainable sources; never have so many with their work contributed to the community. A greener and freer and stronger Denmark is not something we need to dream of; it is something we can reach for and create by common force if we are aware of our responsibilities and opportunities. Nevertheless, confidence in us politicians has decreased continuously since 2001 and has continued since 2001! That is why the Prime Minister must also be congratulated unreservedly for putting confidence at the top of the agenda at the beginning of this parliamentary term. I sincerely believe that our aim must be to restore the trust of our citizens in each other, trust in the world and confidence in the future. It is a political responsibility, and that is why we must start with ourselves. Because if we do not understand the importance of this, we can end up as Great Britain, where political opportunism, irresponsibility and short-sightedness have led to an actless parliament trapped in its own web. It is in Danish words a reverse Dalgas: what is won on the outside, one is well in the process of losing internally. Fortunately, the voices in Denmark, which were caught by the mood following the Brexit vote on our membership of the European Union, have faded. Because when we as a small country are in a butter hole with such great opportunities to influence our own future, it is precisely because of our ability to share sovereignty with others and to make binding decisions together. Our EU membership is an entry ticket to our own future... not a yoke. But I think, like Mr. Simpson... Kristian Thulesen Dahl was kind enough to mention a moment ago that the election on 5 June was a turning point, a system change. The other day, Monday morning could tell us that the first survey of the Danes' elections showed that for the first time since 2001, confidence in politicians does not actually rise to a high level, but the curve is broken, a fall has stopped. And I think this is due to the fact that a small hope has been created, a small hope that must now be made a reality. I don't know if you remember that a few years ago, Danish Industry had a summit on the UN's global goals and the opportunities it saw for Danish business. Perhaps not so many remember, but most remember that the Folketing opened a few weeks later, and after 1 day of debate the result was that we were given a burka ban. There was no majority in favour of it in the morning, but after 12 hours of debate there was a majority in favour of it. World goals in business, burka ban in Parliament, I'm thinking. This year, Dansk Industri held a summit on the climate challenge and the opportunities offered by the green transition for companies. And today we have an opening debate in the wake of the fact that more and more parties share the historic ambition that Denmark should reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. By 2030. After all, there is a world different from the answer we are giving to our demands today with the debate we have today and what happened two years ago. Following the first climate choices of Danish history, we seem to be able to bring together almost everyone about a climate law, a binding goal that can make the hope and popular demand to put the climate at the top of the agenda become action. It is a Parliament that does not make small problems big, but takes the biggest challenges first, and I think that is the way to trust. The epoch of symbolism is over. If confidence is to take root, we, as elected representatives, must start by assuming responsibility for the decline in confidence in us over the last two decades. I am increasingly impressed by the crowd of Danes who lent me their guest room during the election campaign. They did so because they had become tired of politics, felt homeless and alienated by a political debate which is going to be more about the welfare of the parties and our struggle with each other than about the society for which we have joint responsibility. They beat away from our discussions about who has the credit for what, who said it first, and what fingerprints were ours. Because out around us you live in the whole world and you live with the consequences of all the decisions. And I really believe that this is a self-examination and not an indication of colleagues or media. It is an experience that we all need to take our responsibilities more seriously. There were so many who wanted to share their views on politics that I started a new round. And before the radical national meeting, I spent the night in Odense with a couple, and Rikke, who had invited, had simply voted blankly many times in powerlessness. I don't need to hear what you think about the others, but what you mean, she said. So I will. For the Radical Left, the goal is that the Danes' hopes should be made concrete and tangible. We're not here for ourselves. We're here to make a difference. We are not here either for the sake of the government, although we are very aware that it is our fault that the government is here. We are not afraid to put our hand on the hot plate and stand on the goal of using the mandate we have so that it can be felt and seen already during this parliamentary term. We need a greener Denmark, not only in goal, but with less CO2 Take us at the word and answer for ourselves. In 4 years we will have a greener Denmark and a freer Denmark. We need to break the basket so that fewer children grow up in poverty. That is surely the cornerstone of the welfare society: equal opportunities. Why should Danish schoolchildren meet with moldy food in the lunchbox when we have never been richer, but because political decisions have created new poverty in Denmark? It shouldn't be on our watch. It's the kids' turn. In four years we will have improved the well-being of children and young people; we will have more adults in our institutions so that children are seen separately and together; there will be better time for our teachers in schools and in upper secondary education so that the chronic stomachache does not turn into stress, anxiety and depression; there will be a strengthened equality, where more maternity is taken by fathers and where fewer people feel discriminated against because of ethnicity. Just keep us on it, too. In four years we will have created a freer Denmark. We also need a stronger Denmark. Some people fear that a new majority will disregard the economy. It is not a majority of which we are a part. We need more people in jobs in Denmark. They are the ones who stand outside today; those whom the companies would bring here if only they were allowed; those who go into exile, because Danes with foreign spouses cannot be allowed to live in their own country with their family; the refugees who are in work and who contribute and just want to be allowed to continue with it. It's really just common sense. Some people also fear that a new majority will not see the challenges of integration. My appeal to you today is: Give us the chance, then we create more mixed residential areas so that fewer people live in vulnerable residential areas. And then we create better integration so that more people contribute and support themselves. It should not be through insecurity and not by doing it to the residents of certain residential areas in Denmark, but by reaching out and doing it together. For our community does not become weaker by extending it to more. It only weakens when it's all stranded in us and them. In four years' time, more people will feel recognized for their contribution to the community, regardless of who they are, regardless of when they came here, and whatever skin color, religion or ethnic background they have. These are really fundamental Danish values that we need to get back, so in four years we can say that Denmark is stronger. Green means now, free means safe, strong means together, all of you. We must make hope into action with change that can be felt so that confidence can bite its way. Let us throw the old block political dividing lines overboard and gather together to create a greener, freer and stronger Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003140952	Thank you. We are going to the question round, and the first to speak is Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003140958	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for the speech. I would like to pick up on the green, because I think we have a common passion for the green climate and then also for entrepreneurs. And we probably also have a common belief that we can combine those things so that Danish entrepreneurs can go out into the world and help solve the climate challenges. Entrepreneurs need capital, which is why we have also reached an agreement with the Radical Left back in 2017 to ensure that we introduced a share savings account and investor deductions. So I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard, whether the Radical Left can guarantee that the share savings account will continue and have the limit raised to up to DKK 200,000, which was the agreement then, and that the investor allowance will be raised to DKK 800,000, which was also the agreement. In addition, I would like to ask whether the Radical Left will fight with its beaks and claws against raising the share income tax from the world's highest level of 42 per cent. to the highest level of the universe at 45%, because it's a tax on investments in these green entrepreneurs we'd like to help with access to capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141108	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141109	Now it seems that life outside the Earth has not yet been established, but that is to say, the researchers are working on it, and therefore one must be careful to guarantee what is the universe's highest tax level. Nevertheless, I can agree with the intention. The intention to turn Denmark into a green entrepreneurship country also requires that entrepreneurs can get the capital they need and that those who have got the good ideas and are developing them can get the capital they need to bring them out into the world. That is why we made the business agreement when we were in opposition. That is why we are inviting the Left to take responsibility now that the Left is in the opposition and help to ensure that we move Denmark forward in this area too. So no, we do not want to weaken the agreements we have made or strengthen the taxation of capital. On the contrary, we believe that there is reason to take new initiatives to strengthen entrepreneurship in Denmark, including recognising how important capital is for it. And, of course, we are considering in the Finance Act whether we should make what one might call a small Henrik Sass package to strengthen the investment climate in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141212	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141213	Thank you for that clear answer. Just to make it a little clearer, does that mean that Mr. Morten Østergaard will promise here today that the Radical Left will not vote to stop the phasing-in of the share savings account and the investor allowance, and that the Radical Left will never vote to increase the share income tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141231	In other words, the Radical Left stands by all such equals to give guarantees for the infinite future I think one should be careful, but we stand by all the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141255	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141259	Thank you. Now the baton has gone further, and we must respect that, because that is how Danish democracy works. This means that the Radical Left is now in a key role and, of course, among other things. has got through that the island of Lindholm, which is regarded as purely symbolic politics, has been scrapped. And then the question is: what is to happen to the people who are in Denmark on tolerated stays? We're talking about people convicted of murder. We are talking about people convicted of endangering the security of the realm, in other words, something about terror. We're talking about people who have committed rape. These are people who, in connection with the sentences for killing, the risk of the kingdom's security, rape and so on. has been sentenced to expulsion from Denmark but will not respect that expulsion judgment. These people we have wandering around in Danish society today, and Mr. Morten Østergaard does not want them to be isolated on the island of Lindholm, because there are all sorts of things that are wrong with it. So now the baton has moved on, so we ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: What will happen to these people in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141400	The mist here actually starts when mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has the key role to play, for it is decided to gather all those who are on tolerated stays and those who are rejected asylum seekers, all those who are single in the former open prison Kærshovedgård in Midtjylland. It was against all the recommendations of people who understand it, because there is no good coming out of gathering all the people in the same place. I think you can talk about that in Bording in Central Jutland, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is probably not completely unknown with the Mid Jutland. I do not think there is much praise there for the efforts made by the Danish People's Party. I should like to say from the bottom of the Stegekanten that there is not much praise for the proposal to move the whole problem to another part of Denmark either. That is why I believe that two things need to be done. First of all, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl didn't want to be a part of this, for example. with the Marrakesh agreement, which is to ensure that countries are basically better at meeting the responsibilities of their own citizens illegally staying in another country; then they have to take them back. This requires more international cooperation, not a border boom. Secondly, care must be taken here to deal with those who are here in a way that does not concentrate the problem in one place, but so that the local community can make its mark on them instead of taking one community hostage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141514	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141516	Well, the last thing is completely black talk. International cooperation is fine, and if you could get countries to take their own citizens home, that would be excellent. But until that happens, we have a current problem with people convicted of murder; people convicted of rape; people convicted of being a threat to the security of the empire, in other words, within the framework of the terrorist provisions of the criminal code. In connection with these judgments they have been expelled from Denmark, and they will not effect that. Is Mr. Morten Østergaard's answer to them is that they have to live around the local communities, because if they are scattered throughout the country, they do not create insecurity or what? Or does Mr. Morten Østergaard not that they then spread uncertainty in many places? And is it easier for the police to keep track of these people if they're spread all over the country? So, try to explain a little more about what the Radicals are imagining to happen in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141603	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141604	But international cooperation is not good, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. I had understood that one of the great realizations of the Danish People's Party was that one of the problems was that one did not stop this Marrakesh agreement, which verbatim included. is about countries being obliged to take their own citizens home. So the rest of us must do the hard international work, because there is never the Danish People's Party available; you are at home. In relation to the concrete, we will not be helping to create insecurity in neither Bording nor Stege by concentrating all in the same place. So, yes, the solution must be to make smaller facilities, but there we are waiting for the government's initiative. We agree that it should not be Lindholm if nothing else, because it is astronomical expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141645	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141648	Thank you. Now for something else. The Radical Left, like the SF, wants to put turbo on the green switch, and that requires funding, and I also believe that we agree that it requires socially reasonable funding. After all, we have all seen what has happened in Paris with the Yellow West with the anger that arises when those who have the least feel that they should bear the financial burden, and I think we agree that this should not happen in Denmark. Will the Radical Left help to get this funding targeted green conversion, either through e.g. Green taxes, which can be compensated by the green cheque for the lowest-paid, those with the lowest income, or by capital taxation, which also has a socially reasonable profile?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141741	Firstly, I think that we should be a little careful just to make the quick analysis of what was going on in France. In any case, it can be said that it was green taxes on petrol that were part of the discussion there, but we still think that is part of the solution, that is to say, to have green taxes. It is because it has to influence behaviour, and it has to do so in everyone, so that we have less pollution. So that part of it we agree on. Then there is the question of the green check. It was introduced to cover certain charges, including: The PRS, which has since been abolished. Therefore, I have to say that when it comes to redistribution, we would rather do it at the front door, so we would rather abolish poverty benefits and thus help them on transfers, rather than complicate the tax system. Or, if it's about the elderly, we'd rather help them with a bigger old check or whatever you can imagine. It is better than with a green cheque, which we can now see in reality covers something that we have in the meantime abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141838	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141840	I noticed very well that the Radical Left, as part of a financing plan, abolished the green cheque. We find this really a pity in the SF when the world's climate economists are just recommending CO2 but if we only eliminate the poverty benefits that we would like, we will just go back to the status quo. We also need to make massive redistribution in relation to the green taxes that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003141925	I do not disagree with the importance of keeping social justice in mind. Moreover, we are also in favour of a much liked European system in which a CO2 is produced, but I am just saying that I think we should separate things. If you want to compensate people for their costs of green taxes, you do not get the change in behaviour you want, and that is why we want the redistribution by the front door with the instruments we have for it. It is well known that we have positions on housing taxation and everything else, but then, on the other hand, want to tax pollution more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142003	Thank you, Enhedslisten. Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142006	Thank you for that, thank you for your speech and the fine words about the green transition. I would like to follow up on the previous speaker and also ask about both the green transition, but also how it should be financed, or, rather, who should finance it. For Mr. After all, Morten Østergaard mentioned Danish Industry in his speech and mentioned their climate plan, and I have also seen several radical rapporteurs call it both ambitious, visionary and responsible. And preserved, the goal is right, really nice. But if you look down at the plan and see who is financing it, it is the unemployed, the students' su and the poor families' green cheques that have to pay for the green conversion. So I would like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard: Do you also believe that the largest emitters of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142105	First of all, I think it is a very unfortunate interpretation that the largest Danish business organisation actually comes up with an attempt at an overall bid. I don't have to be taken as income from a to z for what it says. But I really think it is to be commended, even from the extreme left, that there is an industry which is so offensive to the green transition. I think there are many countries that would wish they had. Then I also think that if you look across what the Radical Left stands for and I know you sometimes have a desire to shoot us in something else in the shoes then I don't think it's a correct picture. When we fight against poverty benefits, it is of course to combat poverty among those who have the most difficulty in Denmark. When we basically work for lower taxes at work and in return higher taxes at e.g. housing or consumption, it is something that can easily be made in a socially responsible way. And that's why I don't really think we're gonna have that kind of disagreement when it comes down to it. But it's true that we're not into the knobbing in the tax system that complicates it. So, the green check was introduced to cover some taxes that have since been removed. That is why, of course, if you make a comprehensive tax reform, you have to have a look at the distribution effects of it. But it just doesn't help to think that everything has to be compensated for by a check if you want a change in behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142220	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142220-2	Thank you for that, and there should also be no doubt that we in the Enhedslist would, of course, like to praise the great ambitions that are in the plan. However, we very much disagree with the source of funding. I'd like to ask about something else. Because we hear a great many parties in these days saying that climate action must not affect growth. I'll tell you what. Morten Østergaard the priority that growth comes before the climate? Or, sir. Morten Østergaard guarantees that the Radical Left is still behind a climate effort with 70% CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142259	I can guarantee that I don't even think I need to be completely on the goal of what we went along with in the election campaign for a 70-percent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030. Not least because it spreads like rings in the water here, and most recently the Left has joined their new president. And I would also like to reply to that: Yes, we are quite ready to use the room for manoeuvre to invest in the green transition. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen mentioned this earlier. And I think the Enhedslisten is. And it's an amazing atmosphere that's spreading. Some of the room for manoeuvre exists because we have been involved in making some decisions that Enhedslisten was not so happy about, but in return we are usually happy to use the room together afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142345	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142348	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good talk with a lot of commitment. I have incredibly high hopes for Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard and his party. Because I have the hope that when we think that we should hold onto one end of the rope, in relation to how the economy is to be managed in this country, by the majority that is now, I am betting that Mr. Morten Østergaard, as part of the majority who has pointed to the current Prime Minister, will insist that the economy should be in order. And since we are talking about the economy and there was a lot of enthusiastic talk about business, I would, of course, like to ask about generational change taxation. Because it is simply a mystery to me why it is so important that it is right there when the company just has to continue. I don't want anything to happen to it. I just want it to go on. As it is today, it must also be tomorrow with a new owner so that you do not take capital out of the company, but just let it continue so that people can have their jobs. I understand that the Radical Left also supports the increase in taxes, but I am happy to hear if new ideas have emerged. At the same time, I simply do not understand why it is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142455	So, what more can you want than to have created hope and expectation far beyond your own ranks, right into the conservative heart culture, if that is what you have. It's as big as it gets. But when it comes to the issue of the estate and inheritance tax, we were not part of the majority who chose to spend a billion dollars, well and well, on lowering it. And that's because our priority is to lower the tax on work. It is of greater importance to society. All sorts of other taxes were lowered under the previous government. That was a pity, because what was needed was to lower the tax on work, and that is why we were not there. What we are, on the other hand, very concerned about is the conditions for companies that have a change of generation: that there is a model that I think should be better than the one that is today to create security and transparency and predictability about what the conditions are, so that we do not risk that good family-owned companies forced by the tax system end up selling the company instead of passing it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142552	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142553	Thank you. I fully agree that we must do something about personal taxes. I'd be happy to discuss that further. But Mr. Morten Østergaard doesn't confirm that whatever view he may have about it is that when we discuss generational tax, it's not really about, as some people sometimes hear in the debate saying, that it's a few very well-vended people who just have to shave something more for themselves, but that it's really just about whether a company can continue. Then we can have different views on what the model should be like. We don't think there should be that treasure. But it is a question of whether we could at least agree that this is something that concerns all kinds of companies, including those who may not have large profits and do not have capital for a generational change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142637	It is quite true that the way in which taxation is today means that companies may have to realise assets that may be productive or otherwise, in order to afford to change the generation. And that is why, for some, it may simply be the solution that they sell it, and then you inherit the proceeds from the sale of the company, instead of it remaining in the hands of the family, which is often good for the company to stay in Denmark at all. So we have that interest in common. But I also think it has to be said that the way we dealt with it was a little clumsy. In other words, because now a situation has been created where, if you inherit a large company, you have a lower rate than if you inherit a small lame money. And I'm not sure that's being considered reasonable, and that's why I think we need to find another and better system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142721	Then it's the alternate's, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142724	Thank you, and thank you for an energetic speech that got a little energy into this room. We needed that. I'd like to talk about the North Sea oil. This is something we have been concerned about, and we have been pleased to see that Radicals have moved on to that agenda. This is a very important move that has taken place in relation to the eighth round of invitations to tender, which should otherwise have been allowed to begin a year and a half ago. I'm a little curious about what's next. Will we continue to grant extensions to all the invitations to tender that have already started a long time ago? Will we continue to allow people to suck oil out of the underground, or does this end the eighth invitation to tender, meaning that it is also a stop to give further extensions to the permits already in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142813	When we have taken the decision to call for the eighth round of invitations to tender to be deleted, it is because we are looking at the annual figures. The extraction permits are due to expire in 2046 and by 2050 we must be completely free of fossil fuels in Denmark, and it is also the aim of the new European Commission that Europe is. And then it doesn't make much sense to grant permissions to extract oil well into the 2050s. So that is our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142848	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142849	Yesterday there was a reply from the Minister which shows that, as far as I read it, the seventh round of invitations to tender could actually run as far as 2052. Does this mean that radicals will also go in and look at the seventh round of invitations to tender that is under way so that we can stop the North Sea oil hunt? It's gonna run into the 2050s.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003142915	No, because there is a need for credibility in the fact that when you enter into agreements with the Danish state you know that they are being respected. And there are people who are investing. We do not know whether it will lead to extraction or whether they will find something they can use that is profitable. Right now, we know that someone has permission for something that ends in 2046. If those who have been allowed to look for something find something they want to deduce, they can in principle continue to reach 2052. But what we are saying now is: stop new permits to look for it in order to extract it far into the 2050s. We think this is the right time. And that is also because we can see that the wise men recommend it for climate reasons, but also because it means much less economically than it has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143000	The next item is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143006	Thank you for the floor. Thanks for the presentation. The Radical Left is, after all, a party which has its roots in the high school movement, where freedom is a constant feature. In virtually all countries based on Islamic culture, there are dictatorships, civil wars or other terrible things. It was not long ago that we were able to read in Politiken that the radical voice-sucker Mrs Ida Auken had had a meeting with an imam who would not shake hands because he followed his Islamic faith and his Islamic values, and this caused anger and gave Mrs Ida Auken a sense of being a leper, we could read. Mr. Morten Østergaard, that more Islam in Denmark will mean more or less freedom, more or less gender equality and more or less democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143101	Well welcome in the Folketing to Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens. I have to say that when I get such a question, I think it is some of the things that can explain why so many people were frightened by the debate that took place during the election campaign. So now we have to stand in here and discuss something that is so fundamental a freedom right, the right to believe in what you want and have the religious beliefs you want? It is fundamental in all Western culture, a fundamental part of our rights, that we do not judge people on the basis of their religious beliefs. Yes, Mrs. Ida Auken had a short meeting with someone who wouldn't shake her hand, and that's the way to deal with that kind of thing. That's the way we deal with it between people. But beating everyone else who has the same religious beliefs is basic to me in fundamental conflict with everything that is Danish values, and therefore I do not want to jump on that galley at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143153	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143154	Thank you for the floor. I doubt that's what was the Danes' answer in this parliamentary election. One of the things that I saw as a great concern was that politicians refuse to answer the questions they are asked, and that is what we are hearing from Mr Tugendhat. Morten Østergaard, who obviously will not answer whether Islam and Islamic values such as those Mrs Ida Auken was met by the other day through the imam, who would not shake hands because Mrs Ida Auken is a woman, and their influence on our society gives more freedom or less freedom to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143234-2	I take the view that religion is a private matter and that religion cannot do either from time to time, because it is people who do from time to time. And how some people interpret their religion can be very different from how other people interpret their religion. And that is why I am against freedom of all kinds, and I am against extremism of all kinds, both political and religious. To be honest, I think it is an extreme point of view, for example. from New Citizens have said that one does not want Muslims to be able to acquire citizenship. I think it is unpleasant and I think it is fundamentally contrary to the fundamental Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143310	Thank you, and the next question is Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143314	Yeah, I guess we can't argue about the last one. But what I really want to say is first of all thanks for wanting to make a fight with the symbol policy. Now that you have thrown the wet suit and moved home to your own family, we can make a fight with the symbol policy and discuss the essentials. Sir. Morten Østergaard did one thing that the Prime Minister forgot. He took up Danish economics, although only with three sentences, it was significantly more than the Prime Minister. And as former ministers of the economy, we have that in common, we probably have more in common than we do, shouldn't we agree that we should get Denmark back on the path of reform? Because I have to admit that when I hear Mr. Morten Østergaard's speech, we are probably there where even I miss Margrethe Vestager, in other words a radical party leader who talks about the challenges that Danish economy faces and talks about what Denmark should live on and how business gets better conditions. So should we not return to the reform agenda again? That is, after all, what makes many people hope for the Radical Left for the next four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143424	Well, you can achieve more with a speech than you could dream of. Now, sir, he's missing. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille saw Margrethe Vestager. Laughter Yes, yes, it goes far, one is amazed all the time. But I can also miss Margrethe Vestager, but I now think she is doing excellent as EU Commissioner, and that is why I think we should be very happy that she fits it on behalf of all Denmark and thanks to the government and Prime Minister for renouncing her. But on the question of the economy. In fact, I think I was trying very clearly to say that we are on guard that the economy should grow stronger in the years to come and when Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille looks back on the reform trail, I guess there's some self-acknowledgment in it. So, the Liberal Alliance had the crucial mandates, and how did it go with the reform trail? Perhaps not so well, at least not in relation to the governments that preceded it. That is why I would like to say that our ambitions are well known and, of course, we will fight for them. Now we'll see. We will have a financial bill debate here, where we hope to be able to get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143532	Yeah, yeah, well, I get it that you've gone down to balance the job offer now, and that was so obviously the price that Margrethe Vestager could get another five years. It is so okay or it is not, because the Danish economy still needs someone to look at the reforms. Let me quote Mr. Morten Østergaard from the closing debate in 2017. There the rapporteur characterised himself as a radically radically separate general. Yes, I apologise for the expression, those are the rapporteur's own words. Morten Østergaard I was there). I never thought I'd say these words in this nice hall, but could one appeal a little that this kind of horniness would come back? Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143612	I'm impressed by all the attention from Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille's side and not least the memory of my doing and the barn in every context, I understand. Laughter It's nice to get attention. And it can be said that little is needed to impress more than the four years when the Liberal Alliance had the decisive mandates when it comes to the path of reform. In any case, a government has been formed on the basis of a desire to increase employment in Denmark, strengthening the room for manoeuvre. This requires new responsible decisions, and I would like to invite the Liberal Alliance to join rather than stand a little low out next door.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143648	Thank you. I understand that it was a reference to an earlier debate where it was not corrupted, but otherwise we will try to keep such a slightly more sober tone. The next person to speak is Mr. Torben Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143706	I cannot then congratulate the President on the pronunciation of my name. Well, actually, I'm gonna try to catch the thread where mr. Morten Østergaard ended, in relation to what makes this society richer, what makes this a better place. I am pleased with the radical approach that Denmark is a good place to take a positive approach instead of the rather sad approach others have to it. And I welcome the statement by Mr. Morten Østergaard of the fact that the agreement reached by the Radical Left with the previous government on investor credit and equity savings accounts is in force. Unfortunately, there was no answer to the question put by my colleague, Mr Seligman. Tommy Ahlers on stock income tax, and that's not because I'm worried about some investors. However, I am quite sure that the Radical Left shares the same view that we have in the Left, namely that the tax we place on entrepreneurs' access to capital is the capital that will help to develop businesses, the capital that will help to give companies in the green transition the capital base to expand, to pursue the dream, to get the idea sold outside the country's borders, means something, the price of capital matters. I hope, therefore, that we will not be able to get an answer as to whether the Radical Left can see itself in any way in a construction in which the share income tax is to be increased, as the government wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143838	I'm sorry for my wrong pronunciation. It is, of course, the Torsten rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143843	No, we have the same analysis, namely that it is important that capital taxation does not increase, for the sake of the level of capital available for new investments. Tax policy tends to be terribly complicated, but in reality it is not so difficult. What you want more of, you have to tax something less and what you want less of, you have to tax something more. That is why you will see that we are proposing and it may be that you do not always agree with the higher tax on pollution. We would also like to see a better level of public health and less smoking, and I think we agree on this. However, we want to strengthen investment, which is why we do not have any proposals or any desire to help increase capital taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003143927	Thank you for that answer. It is positive that, hopefully, there is a majority here in the Danish Parliament that will ensure that entrepreneurs in Denmark have access to capital, the opportunity to create the growth that is the prerequisite for our prosperity and thus our well-being. Sir. Morten Østergaard also mentioned the need for reforms. Now, depending on the temperament, one could be pleased that the front page of Berlingske today stated that the very, very ambitious financial legislative action of the government contributed with an increase in labour supply of 125 people. This proved to be a regrettable mistake, for the reality was that it was a reduction in the supply of work of 125 people. I just want to hear: can the Radical Left see itself in a financial law that limits labour supply and thus reduces wealth in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144014	After all, the government is formed, provided that the policy pursued does not weaken the supply of work and if an initiative does so, it must be supplemented by other initiatives that compensate and that, overall, we increase employment. After all, that is what we are coming up with for the financial law negotiations, and that is where the direction of economic policy is set. So can I just say in general: should we not agree that with an increase in labour supply of plus or minus 25 people, we are in the very finely-calibrated? We measure it throughout the shoe lengths, I'd say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144048	Thank you. The next question on the list is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144052	Thank you. We need to talk about social inequality in life, because the Workers' Employment Council did a study here at the beginning of the year which shows that an unskilled 30-year-old man not only enters the labour market eight years earlier than, for example, a lawyer, but he also dies 7.6 years earlier than the lawyer. He has a life expectancy of 76 years and a retirement age of 73.5 years. Unfortunately, this means very few years on a national pension and probably a pension life in a sick bed. Why should retirement age be the same when life expectancy is so different?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144137-2	The fact that the retirement age is the same as it has been since the introduction of the pension is not, in itself, an argument for it to remain so. I am just saying that if you care about the retirement pension, you have at least learned to live with the same retirement age. Our idea of how to deal with it, that people are I really like that we treat people in the same situation the same way. Because what you risk by going in and saying that all unskilled people are the same is what they obviously aren't, that you go wrong in the city, if you leave a lot of others who may be worse off than the most disadvantaged unskilled people who are worse off and then you haven't committed an injustice to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144242	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144242-2	I have heard that reply many times, but I think on the other hand that we are talking about a retirement pension here. In other words, compared with the time when we can retire from the labour market, not because we have gone on early retirement because we have become ill, but the time of retirement, there is only a greater and greater difference in the length of time we get on a retirement pension. And it is clear that, as the retirement age rises, the problem is getting bigger. What can the young man expect from the Radical Left? Does the Radical Left think that inequality is okay, or does the Radical Left actually have an answer to this young man?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144324	Firstly, we do not think that inequality is okay, but we do think that the problem is that it arises for the young man. In other words, we must take action to prevent one's working life or one's life from having a lower standard of health. The second is that we think it should be possible to go from even more than three years before, as the Socialists have talked about up to six years before the retirement age, if you have lost the ability to work. And it is just that the principles conflict a little, because we really do think that this should be, regardless of who you are, that it should also apply to the most disadvantaged nurse, even if he has more education than the most healthy and best-off unskilled. And that is the principle of fairness we think there should be, that is, that we should not punish people for having taken an education, but that we should not punish people for not having taken an education. We have to treat people who are in the same situation the same way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144416	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144417	Thank you. I'm feeling a little like Mr. Kim. Søren Pape Poulsen, that is, I have enormous expectations of Mr. Poulsen. Morten Østergaard and the Radical Left. And maybe it's actually a little brave to have it. But we must cling to what we have. In this connection, I would like to refer to an interview given by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to Altinget before the elections, as far back as the end of May. This is a little of a follow-up to my two party colleagues' questions. And that's what I'm gonna hear about, sir. Morten Østergaard will continue to do so in general, if I may say so, as Mr. Morten Østergaard's party colleague at that time thought about the social democratic proposals for tax increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144513	I am convinced that this is our position and continue to be of the same opinion. As I said before, we would like to see increased taxation on pollution and on unhealthy foods to reduce pollution in Denmark and to strengthen public health. But, overall, we also think that the tax on labour should be reduced, and that is our tax policy. I think it's familiar. And this also applies to the fact that we will strengthen the basis for investment by doing the things we have agreed and not roll anything back or go backwards. We will do what we can, keep our noses in the tracks, try to accomplish as much as possible. We very much hope the Left would like to join us, but until then, you'll have to join each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144557	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144558	Well, I'm super, super happy that mr. Morten Østergaard still has the view and stands by what his party colleague said before the parliamentary elections. The problem is, of course, that these socialist proposals for tax increases have not disappeared since the elections, unfortunately. Could you get Mr. Morten Østergaard to give such a temperature measurement of how he sees the possibility that the Radical Left would then be included in some financial agreement with the Social Democrats, if Mr. Morten Østergaard, as we have heard several times here, is so clear in rejecting these socialist tax increases? What does the temperature measurement indicate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144637	But the barometer level is high. In other words, I do not have the imagination to imagine that there will be no financial law agreement, but there will have to be a majority for all the initiatives that can be agreed upon. And our position on these issues is well known and some of them are tied up in agreements. I have read in the proposal for adoption that there is a great deal of concern about tax increases in the opposition, but in return I understood that the Left is the banner of raising the cigarette tax. And in this way there are nuances in all views. So can we not find each other in sensible and balanced measures?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144713	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144717	We can of course hear that the Radical Left would very much like to give priority to education and the area of children and that they have a lot of ideas about where more money is to be spent. That is what we want. We also want minimum standards and we want to restore the education system after many years of savings. But what I still need to hear from the Radicals is where the money should come from. When do we see proposals for funding from the Radical Left? And can we expect to see some proposals from the Radical Left that do not turn the heavy end down but, on the contrary, are socially just?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144756	This will become apparent on Monday, when we will be presenting our draft budget which will, by its very nature, have full funding for the things we are proposing. Moreover, as always, it will also have a social balance in relation to ensuring that the overall impact of the proposal we put forward is that Denmark is both stronger, but that we also help those who have the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144822	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144823	We look forward to seeing that very much. We have been waiting for months to see what the funding from the Radicals is really about. But then I would like to ask: what does the Radical Left think of the negotiating reserve that the government has put in place in the Finance Act? Is it too small? Does it have to be bigger? That is one question. The second question I would really like to ask is about a proposal for financing, which we have included in our own proposal for financial law, in which we propose that the banks contribute something more and that we introduce a balance tax for the banks. Our proposal will bring 1.8 billion. kr. extra, such as we. can apply to minimum standards or other good things, for example. the green transition. What does the Radical Left think of such a proposal that banks should also contribute more to the Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003144912-2	First of all, we have made a quick check-up on the government's financial bill, and there were a number of bills left behind. There is a taximeter increase in human and social education, and in the field of culture there is still a re-prioritisation contribution. There are new strange savings in free schools, and also in primary schools. So yes, there is a need for us to also find ways of financing those things beyond the negotiating reserve that lies. This will also be reflected in our draft budget. Then there is the question of bank taxation, which I really think should be discussed openly, because on the one hand, in the wake of a series of scandals, we have had to take many initiatives from the public side, and on the other hand, I think we can also see a banking sector which could perhaps contribute a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145006	Thank you. A long question sometimes also requires a long answer. The next in line of questioners is sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145008	Thank you. I understand, sir. Morten Østergaard is very unimpressed by the state in which we left the Danish economy and the reforms we carried out when the Liberal Alliance had the decisive mandates, despite the fact that we delivered the Danish economy in better condition than I had almost said before with record employment and a tax burden that is the lowest since the fall of the Wall. I was just about to say that, like my fellow citizen, I share the great hope of the Radicals over the next four years, but if I am to be honest, I am a little more in doubt as to whether there is any difference between the economic policy of the SF and the economic policy of the Radicals. The rapporteur says that this must be measured by looking at the financial law agreement and the negotiations in general over the next few years, and I am actually curious about what these are about concrete reforms, concrete labour supply reforms or tax cuts, as Mr. Morten Østergaard would like to be measured on, in addition to the fact that it should be easier to attract foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145121	I don't think people are so concerned about who said what when and why, and who said it first and all that, but now when mr. Alex Vanopslagh himself mentioned this, I would say that if you compare the first Løkke government, the Helle Thorning government and the last government, where the Liberal Alliance had the crucial mandates, you could say that boasting about the reforms may look a little pauvert. On the other hand, in relation to what needs to be done in the future, I would like to say that we are sensitive to the understanding paper we have produced, which says that initiatives must be taken to increase employment in Denmark, which significantly increases the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, and then we must open up the way to obtaining skilled workers outside the borders of the European Union. I think it was in connection with the last thing that we ran our foreheads against a wall again and again under the previous majority, and now it is part of the basis for the government to form, so that we can at least afford to have hopes that the rest of us will be able to do what we ourselves failed to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145220	The questioner for the second remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145222	Thank you. It's all truly blissful. Radicals have also been one of the responsible parties in the past which would help to abolish the post-retirement pay. Is this one of the areas one would be willing to look at in relation to securing more skilled labour? It is known that if the approach to early retirement is stopped, it will result in approx. 18,000 people in increased labour supply, who are skilled workers, i.e. more nurses and more of the type of skilled workers the industry is looking for. Is that one of the things you will try to bring into the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145316	We do not have any current proposal to amend the early retirement agreement we concluded, which is the basis for today's pre-retirement pay. We still have the view that when looking at the rising life expectancy, we should consider whether we should not increase the pensionable age sooner. I think, when I look beyond the Folketing, that it looks a little difficult to get through with it, and that is why we do not fund any of our proposals with it either. But that doesn't change the fact that it's still basically our point of view. And we are delighted, despite the wind that has been going on, that next year at least we will see that the retirement age will be raised again. I do not quite know where the Liberal Alliance was in the senior pension agreement, but there we agreed that when the retirement age reaches 70, we should think about what the future pension system should be like. And I would also like to signal today that I think we should think about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145351	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145357	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard, especially to mention DI's green plan. For the Prime Minister's many promises of good framework conditions for companies to really play with their big muscles to accelerate the green transition clearly glimpses by its absence. This is particularly true of the new venture on business, for it has been reduced to only 100 million. kr. for some export bets and a bit of green moves • simply a shelf of mixed meter goods. So I'd like to ask Mr. Morten Østergaard on something: What will the Radical Left do to ensure the business environment in the future Climate Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145437	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145438	It was quite conscious that I pointed to that, I think, great initiative that had come and, incidentally, the general readiness of the business community to tackle these things, and I think we should support that. That is why I think we should increase research appropriations instead of just moving them around, and we should increase development aid instead of just moving it around. And then, in relation to business, I think that we should stop saving on education, but invest in it, and we will, as I also announced, have a business package as part of our financial law proposal, because this is also something that companies deserve from a new majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145514	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145515	Thank you. That's where I'm gonna feel the green research. We hear a lot about that famous green billion, but not much about how it should be given priority. What will the Radical Left give priority to green research so that in four years' time we can see all the clean air and renewable energy and everything you need to be measured on, as Mr. Morten Østergaard said?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145539	I do not think anyone is in any doubt that the Radical Left is a party that has always wanted to invest in research. One must also have the respect that it will probably not be what has to reduce our CO2 Let me just take an initiative recommended by another business organisation, namely Agriculture & Food, which has itself proposed that vulnerable agricultural land be taken out, and I think that is perfectly obvious as something that could reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145619	Thank you. We can just make one last brief comment, and it is to Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145623	Thank you very much. Thanks for the speech. Sir. Morten Østergaard said that we should not be so worried about the new government's integration policy. I'm worried about that. I can't help but think that sir... Morten Østergaard in his own words last year actually moved his office at Christiansborg to learn more and had a tour around Denmark to the various ghettos. I'd like to know if Mr. Morten Østergaard also experienced the reality in the ghettos, where the norm is that women especially go at home, where the norm is that children grow up and see that there is no equality between mother and father. Is that a reality, sir? Morten Østergaard has seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145720	It really is. That's also why I was so frustrated, bordering on the awful, that when the Left led a big action plan, a big settlement that was about vulnerable residential areas in Denmark, nothing was directed towards getting someone in education or in work. It was about tearing apartments down, it was about everything else. I have been given the impression that I dare not say whether the statistics are one hundred per cent correct • that nine out of ten of the cash benefit recipients who have an address in Mjølnerparken cannot speak Danish and mathematics at primary school level. So I just ask: Does it help to tear down the house or sell the oldest resident community for seniors in Denmark? Or does it help to get those people, often women, to go to school every day so that their children can see that even if you are on cash benefits in Denmark, you have to get up and go? That is what we are proposing. That is where I hope we can find the Social Democracy. I have seen similar ideas from them, namely that those who go on long-term cash benefits should not go at home but should provide something in return. And if you can't do anything in return but go to school, you have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145829	Mrs. Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145830	Thank you very much. We believe that one of the things that helps is that the children go to school, that the children come to day care, that the children come out of the ghettos, and that a bit of Denmark gets into those places. It does not do so when the norm is that women go home, which for some families, not everyone, is such an excuse that men can use against women. Then what I would like to ask is quite specific: does Mr. Morten Østergaard, that it will benefit if we make it more economically advantageous to go home, thus removing the economic incentive one more step, and that we will get more of the women, precisely those women, into the labour market, or whether we will get fewer if we increase the benefits, such as for example. The radical wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003145922	Well, Mrs Fatma Øktem and I both come from Aarhus and East Jutland, and there you are making Gellerup a mixed residential area by changing how the homes are composed. Not that there are fewer people in general, but that there will be people living in cooperative housing, owner-occupied housing, etc. So I can only support that development. We want fewer vulnerable residential areas, more mixed residential areas. The next thing is that we must train those who are and demand in return for cash assistance, or whatever you call the benefit, that you go to school so that you become more skilled. What, on the other hand, does not work and has never worked and has never been a piece of Denmark, no matter where it is, is taking opportunities from children. It doesn't work, it's not good. Children should not grow up in poverty in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150008	Thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150019	Thank you, President. The speech of the election was clear: the Danes demanded a new direction, a Denmark that invests in the future, children and climate, rather than making the petrol cars cheaper, a Denmark where you do not save on day care institutions, on care for the elderly and in hospitals to distribute tax reliefs to those who have theirs on the dry. We have already started: we are working on the world's most ambitious climate legislation; we are well in the process of failing the national tests; we have given a hand to the very poor. We're in a hurry. There is a lot more to be done, and we were reminded of that yesterday. Yesterday there were a lot of parents right here at City Hall Square in Copenhagen. There were many educators, and there were actually quite a few children. In the same way, the parents were here before the Danish Parliament when we opened on Tuesday. They brought signs: The children are waiting; minimum standards now. Those were demands in relation to all children. Thank you to them, thank you for fighting for the children. The fact is that just because we have written minimum standards into the understanding paper, the planned savings around it do not disappear. Words don't do it alone. Words can't be used to change diapers or play with lego, good intentions can't give a hug, long-term promises can't comfort a little girl when she's sad. The parents' banners remind us that we need to get started. We need to start securing minimum standards now. It's gonna be Storm's turn now, it's gonna be Villum's turn, it's Ida's turn, it's Marie's turn, and it's Oliver's turn. Come on, it's the kids' turn. There are 4,000 educators, teaching assistants and educators missing if we are to reach the 2009 level • 4,000. I've talked to many educators and educational staff who say: I'm happy with my work, I'm happy with the kids, but there's never time for the fun, time to take a trip, time to go out and watch the fall with the kids, time to do the theater with the big, all my time going with the storage of the kids. Storage is really good enough for our children? No. That's why we say in the SF that this finance law is supposed to be the children's finance law. We need to start a model on how to get minimum standards, so there must be no more than three children per year. adult in crèche and a maximum of six children per year. grown up in kindergarten. It is not luxury, it is a minimum I repeat: a minimum for what is decent for children, and I also think we should be honest: the alternative is that the savings continue in many places. Even if we get started next year, it is not certain that the first thing really can be felt. That's the honest truth. Here I have to agree with the Prime Minister: the holes in the welfare out there are in many places so large that they first have to be filled up before we can feel the improvements. Unfortunately, this is going to take time, it's a fact. But that's not an excuse to give up. On the contrary, it must and must be the driving force for getting started quickly, not later in the government period, not next year, but now. If, on the other hand, we succeed in introducing minimum standards in a few years' time, it is a small child revolution, and it must succeed. There are very few of us sitting in this Chamber who have tried to sit in classrooms with 50 children. After all, we do not have that because a ceiling was introduced almost a few years ago on how many pupils are allowed to sit in classes. It was a milestone in Danish school policy, although there are still too many children. In the same way, we must set a milestone for young children. We must jointly recognise that there is a lower limit to how few adults we can accept to care for the smallest. Something else we also need to do is, of course, the climate. Climate change is already here. Fortunately, we are at the same time with a unique momentum for political change that I have never seen before in my time as a politician. It should just be the resistance to nuclear power and the struggle for disarmament in the 1980s. Is that gonna be hard? No doubt it does. But as our Prime Minister said last week to the leaders of the whole world: if it is not difficult, it is because we do not do enough. The Pippi Longstocking attitude I hope the Prime Minister continues. The SF goes to the Finance Act negotiations with demands that we start planting much more forest and that we immediately start converting the most polluting agricultural land into nature. It's good for the climate, it's good for nature, and it's good for all of us who love a trip in nature. But we must ensure that it is done properly. Most people in Denmark can clearly remember the economic crisis that hit Denmark in the '00s. Here, the bill for the crisis was wiped off to ordinary employees, and those who lost their jobs were also penalised by an unemployment benefit reform and an early retirement reform. I don't want the government to make that mistake. It will cost money to convert our entire society into a zero-emission society. That bill must be distributed fairly. Those who pollute the most must pay the most, those who have the most must contribute the most, everything else will be unfair, and that will not only be unfair. This could jeopardise the entire popular support for the green transition. It would be a disaster. So for our common welfare, for our common welfare has been neglected for many years. It's serious. We run the risk that support for our fantastic welfare society will be waning if people do not trust that there is a proper home help for their mother with dementia, if you are going home from the hospital, a few hours after you have given birth, even if you are insecure and have not been breast-feeding. We go to the financial law negotiations with a demand for a real welfare promise. It must be felt at the hospital in Skejby, it must be felt in the care of the elderly in Guldborgsund, it must be felt at the folk schools in Kerteminde. That's why I'm looking forward to starting a new parliamentary year. There's plenty to do. SF is ready for us to continue our course together towards a greener Denmark, a more socially fair Denmark, a Denmark where we make the children's Finance Act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150802	Thank you. Then we begin with the series of brief remarks, and the first to speak is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150812	Thank you. Thank you to the President of the SF for being so precise about the fact that it is the children's financial law, which is in stark contrast to the draft budget we received yesterday. Some of the things SF has been very clear about are among other things. In this connection, the party's group chairman said to Radio24seven at the end of August, after there had been some discussion about whether or not it was an ultimate demand, that the SF would be prepared to overthrow the Socialist Government if it failed to meet its clear demands in this area. I just want to know if that's the case. And when should such a requirement then be met before we can see SF really be in the work clothes on behalf of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150858	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003150901	It's absolutely crucial for the SF that this bill of finance is going to be and we say that we want to get attached to a model called one adult for three children in the nursery and one adult for six children in the kindergarten. That's what we got into the understanding paper. The understanding paper now states that this government must work for minimum standards. It came into the municipal agreement that minimum standards should be made. And now, of course, we also have to deliver in the Finance Act the economy needed to deliver on minimum standards. But to be honest, and we've been saying that all along, this is gonna take time. It is not, of course, next year that we have delivered on minimum standards. Firstly, because we want a good balance to be struck between skilled and unskilled staff. We do not want it to get stoned. Secondly, we also know that it will take time to train the next educators. In addition, it will also take time to get implemented in the municipalities. So next year's Finance Act, we've set up to see 500 million. kr. in the Finance Act. And I think we can actually achieve that, since all four parties say that they want to do something for the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151006	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151007	So it was just empty threats and rumbling when SF's group chairman at the end of August in Radio24syv said that SF would overthrow the government if one did not have the desire for minimum standards met. In relation to minimum standards, it is true that minimum standards can be written in, and that is an elastic band in meter size. And now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that it is SF's demand with one adult for three children when we talk about the young, and one adult for a maximum of six children when we talk about the big ones. Should it be specifically included in a Finance Act before the SF will support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151042	I don't think there's anything rumbled or that it's empty threats or something. I think we've been very clear. We're working for minimum ratings. We've delivered it in the understanding paper, we've delivered it now in the municipality agreement, and we're going to deliver it in a finance law. There should be no doubt about that. Having said that, it is a model with one adult for three children in crèches and one adult for six children in kindergartens, which the SF supports, and which I also see as among other things. The educators back up. And that is what we really have to deliver, after all, it is what the children and educators and educational assistants and educators see in the context as what needs to be lifted out in our day care centres.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151121	Thank you. Next in line, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151125	Thank you. Now we've talked a lot about trust... the Prime Minister mentioned it on Tuesday... and among other things. And trust in the politicians too. After all, that confidence is measured by whether what you say before a choice is also what you do after a choice. And there was probably in the election campaign somewhere where SF said there was something that was ultimate. If you looked up in Politiken on 8 May, I think it was, you would see that SF's Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said that there were two points that were ultimate in relation to the first financial law to be made. One was the introduction of minimum standards and the other was the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits. We do not support a financial law unless we succeed in setting minimum standards and abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said, "Bum" too, just like putting a thick line underneath that this could be expected. I would just like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr to confirm that, of course, this is also the situation after the elections where the Danes have voted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151222	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151224	Of course it is. That is also why we are so pleased that the understanding paper states so clearly that the ceiling on cash benefits will be abolished with the Services Commission and that we will have to introduce minimum standards in Denmark. Boom.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151237	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151239	But the point is that what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is really illustrating here and, as we have just been revealed in this first opening debate, is that one impression is given to the electorate, and when the election is over, one works with it in a different way and over time: it succeeds enough and so on. The impression given in May was then that with the 2020 Finance Act, the ceiling on cash benefits has been abolished. But it's not. There will be a service commission to invent something, and when it is then invented and, if necessary, can enter into force, the ceiling on cash benefits will then be abolished. That is quite different from what the SF actually said in the election campaign. And that's okay. That's how it can be, that's how it can be when you don't stand so hard on what you said in the election campaign you'd stand on. I hope that is not the case, for example. the elderly and something like that, where we have otherwise made quite clear demands together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151327	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151328	SF has delivered both on the cash aid ceiling and on minimum standards, so what we said in the election campaign is also what we deliver after the election. I can see that the Danish People's Party may have an interest in creating such a little more mistrust of politicians. In fact, I think we are living up to that confidence, for example. by delivering on the cash benefits ceiling. I would have liked to have done it even faster, there should be no doubt about that, and if the Danish People's Party had helped in this regard, it might have happened even faster. But I have not previously heard the Danish People's Party care that there are poor people in this country who need a helping hand. In addition, we still have the merit of negotiating the Finance Act, and I expect that we will start introducing minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151409	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151413	In the radical camp we usually say "tja," "bum-bum," but that means the opposite of the "bum" that was before. It was a quote from Mr. Niels Helveg Petersen's right must be right. What I really want to ask is something else that we briefly touched on in the paper of understanding and which I think is important, namely that in the general housing sector there is quite a lot of uncertainty about the future. I visited this seniorbo community at Nørrebro, Denmark's oldest, which is covered by this ghetto package, and where you have an experience that you don't really know if you're bought or sold. Or you know whether you're bought or sold, because the building you live in has to be sold. But it's a slightly different picture, I think the Danes had, of what it was about, for not older people living in a senior community. Is there anything we can do together to ensure that the agreement that SF was part of does not lead to a huge insecurity among all sorts of citizens around Denmark about what their rent is, what their future address is etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151516	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151517	There are 600,000 families living in the non-profit housing sector in Denmark. Approx. is hit by what is called the ghetto agreement, as is, sir. Morten Østergaard is just talking about. This is because we want mixed residential areas. I would like to be honest: there are some who are at risk of having to move in order precisely to secure a mixed housing stock. Those who have so far moved have been voluntarily rebuilt, and that is a very good way to do it. The places where housing is torn down, for example. In Odense and in Aarhus, you make replacement homes because you can see that some people have to live elsewhere, because otherwise we don't meet each other. My great concern is that integration goes completely wrong if we make sure that the most socially vulnerable in our society are also those who have to integrate those people with the greatest integration challenges. We need to meet each other, in the day care centre, in school, in the residential area, and that is why we have to live together. That's why I think it's a good deal. But, of course, we need to look at the specific problems that exist. Now Mr. Morten Østergaard the exact housing community. As I remember, it was something that was implemented before this agreement came into force, and is something that the City of Copenhagen has decided, because the dwelling is simply too old and you have now found another place where the senior community is to live together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151634	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151635	It is true that some plans have been implemented. In relation to the Mjølnerparken, which is the place in question, there has been a plan which has been gathering dust for many years but has not been implemented. We fully share the intentions of the mixed homes. What I'm talking about is if it's not okay to think about the security of the citizens affected by that which lives for one rent and which is uncertain what the future rent and address will then be. And one could also mention the municipality of Holbæk, which has a residential area that looks good if you come out there, but in return has a municipal fund that looks not so good, and therefore has difficulty in getting it done because there were 20 too many, I think there was a job missing. Can we not try together to find some better solutions for them so that we do not waste a lot of dollars on something wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151723	Yes, and that is where I wish the Radical Left were part of the agreement, because then we could do it together. However, there should be no doubt that SF will work for, among other things. The very residential area of Holbæk, Mr. Morten Østergaard is talking about. Some of these places, among other things. I think we should look at whether it is possible to find some kind of derogation. Basically, however, I would like to take a step back, because it is a question of having mixed housing areas, and if we do not see that there are ambitions about this, we also need to use more drastic means.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151757	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151802	It's more about housing policy. It is the case that the consequences of the legislation on parallel societies are coming to fruition. We have the prospect of 3 000 common family homes being demolished and 700 homes being sold. And what is the next problem? It is, of course, that many municipalities and housing associations, in cooperation, make some rental rules understandably to avoid more residential areas coming on the different lists for vulnerable residential areas, where you may then risk 60%. I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as well as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as well as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer We are currently seeing many people with low incomes who are not actually allowed to move into some housing associations where they have been on waiting lists for very many years. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not see the need to adjust these ghetto criteria, for example. the requirement to earn more than 55%. of the average in the region in which the housing association is located. Why not base it on the income of the individual municipality? This is particularly a problem in the Copenhagen area, where you then arrive at an average income which contains the whole of North Zealand and Frederiksberg. Does the rapporteur not see the need to adjust the ghetto criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151913	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003151914	I would like to take a step back, because in reality it is a question of ensuring mixed housing areas. One of the reasons is right next to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Mrs Halime Oguz, who herself grew up in a residential area that was not particularly mixed, and it has had consequences throughout his life where he has been married before he was 18 years old, has not had the opportunity to choose the education he wanted at the time of life when he wanted to, and has not been able to choose when he wanted to have his own child. I do not think that is an equal Denmark. I want a Denmark where you are allowed to choose your own life, regardless of whether you are a man or a woman, and where women of other ethnic origin have the same rights as other women in Denmark. That is why we need to provide mixed housing areas, and that is why we need to take this challenge seriously, and unfortunately I think that Enhedslisten is doing the whole case of women a disservice by not taking this problem seriously. I am happy to look at concrete solutions if someone gets in trouble or it doesn't make sense, for example. a derogation for some of the people with disabilities. But I simply do not accept that this should be a problem. That is part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152026	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152028	Well, the rapporteur needs to look at the specific problems. What is happening right now is that ordinary people with low incomes get a no to move into residential areas where flexible rentals have been adopted and where the housing association, in cooperation with the municipality, has come up with a high level of income to be allowed to move in. This means that ordinary people with low incomes cannot move into areas where they can actually pay the rent. These are the specific problems that I would ask the SF and the rapporteur to address, and not just to make a general talk about what are the principles for joining legislation and adopting legislation that has some negative consequences. The negative consequences here and now need to be addressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152112	I'm happy to do the same. And there I very much agree with Enhedslisten's former social mayor in the City of Copenhagen, Mikkel Warming, who used this tool to say that you had to have flexible rentals in some homes, so you made sure that the residential area became more mixed. SF generally supports it, so we make sure that we have mixed residential areas. This does not mean that people who have low incomes should not have a place to live. Of course, they are entitled to do so. But how can it be that we have residential areas in Denmark that are not mixed and do not have social problems? It is because they have not been required to raise this issue as well. And that's really where we have to crack the code.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152148	Thank you. The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152153	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a good speech which focused very much on what the SF wants. That's good to hear. There was a lot of red, there was a lot of green, and I agreed with something more than anything else. That's the green thing I want to focus on here today. On 23 May, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, on behalf of her party, and together with the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, now the Prime Minister, presented a proposal. That was the day when the nature meeting in Hirtshals started. There one was presenting an initiative where one jointly suggested that if one got the government power, there should be a proposal for a nature plan for Denmark within the first 100 days. It was 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. That's a really good idea. We have put a great deal of pressure on the conservative side, and we put up to 25 000 hectares in the old government in the first place. It was 15 large natural parks with wild nature. This was to be done in cooperation with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, Agriculture & Food and the Danish Forest Association. So it was within the first 100 days. It was a very, very concrete proposal. On Saturday we round the 100 days, so I just want to hear: What's new?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152302	I must be honest there and say that we are not in favour of this. First of all, it takes these parties to sit down. The ambition is still gone. It will not be within the first 100 days, but the ambition to get more nature is still absent, and I share Mrs Abildgaard's ambitions in the green area. I actually think our ambitions are a little higher in the SF, but peace be with it. I think we can go a long way together in this area. This applies not only to nature, but also to the environment and climate, where SF and the Conservatives have many common interests in promoting the green. But it is true that in relation to our common nature play it will not be within the first 100 days, but I promise you it will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152343	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152345	I think it is a little too bad, because it has been pointed out that it has been urgent because we have challenges with biodiversity that are in crisis, that our meadows, our excesses and so on. are under pressure and that lots of animal species are under pressure. That is why it stressed the importance of this. After the dialogue I have had with the stakeholders who should have participated, I can hear that they are very, very clear. They'd love to, but they haven't been invited to get this work started. So I think it's a little dishonest that you come up with this play and very concretely say "100 days," but then you don't deliver on it. Can we expect SF to negotiate something more environment and nature into the Finance Act? Because there isn't much of it so far either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152425	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152426	Now it is not the SF that is in the position of the Environment Minister, which is why we cannot send out invitations to stakeholders, but thus not saying that we will not do our part to push for more nature. We would like to see some of the agricultural land we have today converted into forest. I would also like to see more unspoiled areas, more bogs, for some of what we know provides even more biodiversity in Denmark and makes sure that it does not disappear are some of the bogland we have around. That must be the ambition. I expect it to happen with this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152503	Thank you. And the next in line is mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152507	Thank you. In fact, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for having fought so much for minimum standards and kept that agenda up for a very long time. That helps a lot. When you hold the tab high for an agenda for a long time, you also end up being able to create a majority for it. So thank you for all the work. These opening debates are also good at sometimes getting answers to some of the questions that otherwise are not clearly answered in all sorts of other debates. I have to pick up the torch from my question to the Radicals a little, namely the issue of North Sea oil. When does SF want to shut down the oil tap in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152546	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152548	SF has said, together with the Radical Left, that we believe that the eighth round of invitations to tender should be cancelled, because we believe that the time has come for Denmark not to pull more oil and gas out of the underground. This is not an easy decision, because it may also mean something to the Danish economy. We may have some doubts about this when we hear the economic wise men, but I think it is reasonable to say no to the eighth round of invitations to tender. At the same time, we need a great deal of effort on the demand side, in other words, that in future we will have some cars, some aircraft and something else that is not dependent on oil, so that we can turn down the whole level of ambition. It is not Denmark that is the biggest problem, since the extraction we have is more climate-friendly than for example. The extraction in other countries with which we compare ourselves. It is more climate-friendly than in Russia and the Middle East and elsewhere, but we also need to get started in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152640	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152642	It can be said that the revenue based on figures I have received from the Minister is an average of 2.75 billion. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which is a very good one, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. So it can be said that the economic argument may not be the best argument on its own. However, one can also stop granting extensions to the permits already granted: does SF's new wish to stop the eighth round of invitations to tender also mean a 'no' to extensions to the agreements that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152714	I will look at this in concrete terms when there are calls for extensions and whether they make sense. I mean, it must also make sense socio-economically, but certainly also in relation to our climate agenda. The alternative is, of course, so right that we cannot just look at what is happening in the world. We also have to deliver on, among other things. oil and gas in Denmark. I am glad that in this way the alternative has helped to launch a green wave, which everyone is now supporting, and that it has even succeeded in doing so in relation to the whole North Sea debate. But whether we say no to extensions must be determined by many different factors. I will not deny that we say no, but I will not promise that we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152752	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152757	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. After all, the Socialist People's Party has talked a great deal about introducing minimum standards in its day-care institutions, and I agree that the area of children is a very important area. I am both a family rapporteur for New Citizens, and I am also a mother. In New Citizens we want the money to follow the individual child, so parents have real freedom of choice to choose exactly the institution they think best suited to their child. Fortunately, there are differences between children, and of course there must also be differences in day care facilities. It will give freedom back to the parents. This will give confidence to the individual institutions and restore confidence to those professionals who are in the institutions and will restore freedom to them. I also know that the Socialist People's Party is in favour of decentralisation on paper at least. Does SF also do that when it comes to action? Will the SF be involved in such decentralization of our day institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152907	In other words, what is crucial for us is that we ensure that the necessary resources are available in our day care institutions. We would also very much like to give them free hands to decide much more in their daily lives. But what matters is that there are enough adults present. Well, it's absolutely crucial. This is the first chop we have to take: that there are more adults for the children in our day nurseries, more adults for the children in kindergartens. But then also to give them some freedom to cultivate the skills they have. Well, I'm really happy when I'm out visiting day care centers and experience both educators and educational assistants and educators being immersed in their work and interested in the individual child. And if we can release them even more, while, of course, making sure that the children have a good daily life, then we are also ready for it in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152952	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003152955	Thank you so much. But then, with this principle that the money follows the individual child, all children will have the same opportunities. Does Mrs Pia Olsen recognise Dyhr that there is a need for decentralization of our day care institutions, schools, care for the elderly, etc.? If Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr thinks so, how will the SF ensure it, instead of always just demanding more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153031	Now I'm not asking for any more money. I suggest we spend more money on our common day care institutions so that we as parents can go safely to work. I think it is a very good idea for business to experience that you have a strong welfare society, so that when people are at work, they use their strength at work instead of worrying. But letting the money follow the child will also mean that we think it is a good idea to leave the parents at home with their children. And I have to say that I do not think this is the best way to spend society's money. The best way is to put the money in day care institutions and day care, because then we can help to support the community and the socialisation that I think is important for children too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153110	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153114	I was just about to talk about better standards, but then I thought: Should it never be about lower taxes? And yes, it has to, because I understand that you are going to financial law negotiations with the desire for a fortune tax. And I have to admit, I need a little clarification of justice in that. Let's take an example, let's call them Jens and Paw. They're the same age, they've both studied engineering, they've worked the same years, and they've made the same amount of money through their lives. But the difference is that they have spent their money differently. Paw has spent them traveling around the world partying, and peace be with it while Jens has bought a residence and paid off on it and saved up for retirement. There are two people who have served exactly the same thing, worked for a very long time, took the same courses and been equally industrious. But one has snatched up his money, the other has saved it, and the one who has saved it must then be punished with a fortune tax. What's the wisdom of a fortune tax like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153212	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153213	Now I have no intention of punishing anyone. I am concerned that we are all contributing to the community, too, those who go to work every day and pay their taxes, in fact very much in tax, of their salaries, but also of the fact that you are helping to contribute to the community, even if you are, for example, involved. has inherited a fortune. Now we're talking about fortunes of over 5 million. kr. in the SF proposal. Not everyone has 5 million. kr. at home or in their bank account or for that matter in free value in their house. But I guess that's a fortune of over 5 million. kr., we will tax, and we will, because we believe that we should also contribute to the community when we have chosen to save up. Often it is the case that if you have saved up in your house, you have made big social gains out of saving your house, compared to, for example, saving your house. Saves his salary. I think that can be contributed to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153312	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153314	Well, I really would have asked about minimum standards, so let's just go back to them, although I find it very difficult to see the reasonableness of Jens having to pay something more in tax just because he has chosen to pay off at his accommodation. Let it go. I was a little bit over the fact that it's better for parents to send their kids to day care than for them to spend time with the kids. Well, I think it's good to play and fun in a crèche, but there's nothing that beats quality time with your parents. And there I would like the rapporteur to elaborate on what is really so good about sending his children to day care instead of working a little less as a family for a period of time and spending more time with his children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153355	We actually have in the SF a proposal that allows people to choose to go down in time and spend more time with their children when they are very young. That's what we call baby loans, and a little like when you get a student loan, when you study, you can get it at a particularly advantageous rate in the state. So you can choose to go down in time, and that is actually possible for everyone, not only for those who are highly educated and who may have greater opportunities to save. Having said that, for that we would actually like to give the opportunity for the first 7 years of the child's life, SF believes that what we use from community funds we would like to spend on what is really also the community institutions: where we meet, where we are socialised, where we learn from each other. We don't necessarily do that by going home. And some of these kids will see that after 6 years they have gone home with their parents, come to school and don't know Danish. I don't think that's good for the community. That is why we want the children to be part of, for example. Our day care centers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153447	Thank you. The next in line for brief remarks is Mr. Thomas Danielsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153453	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhrs' speech with a lot of climate engagement in; that's nice to hear. It was also there before the elections where the SF was very clear that on the other side of a parliamentary election as one of the first must have a climate law and that it must be with binding 5-year milestones. Does SF also believe, after the elections, that we should have a climate law with five-year binding sub-targets, that is legally binding sub-targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153519	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153521	We went to elections on a Climate Act with 70% CO2 I just want to say a thousand thanks to the Left. I heard that mr. Thomas Danielsen broke the news yesterday that the Left was in favour of this reduction target, and I am pleased that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen supports it today, because it is quite fantastic. So it is almost every party, with the exception of the new citizens, that supports a 70-percent reduction, so can we not get to the goal? That was our election vow. In addition, we would like there to be five-year binding legal targets, because it makes sense to keep an eye on whether we are going in the right direction. In fact, we have to look at it every year, and it would be obvious to get the Climate Council to assess precisely whether it is going in the right direction, whether new tools are going to be used, not least because so far we only have known means to reach approx. 65% That is why we need something more, and there it is obvious to take advantage of the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153620	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153622	Thank you. It is good that the rapporteur has so much to say. And thank you for the answer that you continue to want five-year legally binding milestones. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentions the Climate Council again and says that they must be strengthened. After all, the Climate Council has now made their recommendations, and their recommendation is actually that we should not have legally binding sub-targets. Is it the Climate Council that is wrong, or is it Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr who is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153655	You can turn it around and ask: what is the United Nations proposing? After all, the UN proposes to come back every five years and look at what it looks like: have we achieved our goal? Should we turn our ambitions up further? That is what we have committed ourselves to in Paris. Thomas Danielsen remembers well and that is why, of course, we have to deliver on further ambitions after 5 years. Whether the Climate Council thinks it is the most important thing in the world or not, I take quite relaxed. I think that the Climate Council makes a lot of good recommendations, which we should, of course, listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153727	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153731	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur's views on the elderly area. For it was the case that the Danish People's Party and the SF made a pact before the elections compared to an extra billion for the elderly area. When I read the understanding paper, which has come out, it does not really say anything about the area of the elderly. The only thing that says is that work will be started to reduce unnecessary documentation requirements, control and minute tyranny in the care of the elderly, thus freeing up time for work with the individual elderly. That's what it says. Then I just want to say that the work was initiated under the previous government in 2016, and a report was published about it in 2018. But that's what it says in the understanding paper. Now we can also see that no funds have been set aside for the continuation of the dementia action plan. So my question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is: how many millions and billions have the SF involved in negotiations in the area of the elderly? Now we have heard that they are going to set aside 500 million. kr. to norms. How many are there for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153836	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153837	Millions and billions. Well, there's a little difference between millions and billions. At least that is how we feel in the SF, even when we have to negotiate finance law. However, there should be no doubt that we think the area of the elderly is important, and I am glad to see in the government's agreement with the municipalities and regions that it is being lifted. This means, of course, that in the health sector, but also in the municipal care of the elderly, there will be the resources that need to be provided as we get more elderly people. I think that is a good thing. That is not what we saw under the previous government. In addition, this financial bill is being proposed, which means a 5 billion increase. kr. In the case of public expenditure. So it is not small things that we are going to experience in relation to a welfare promise. We would like us to look at some of the particularly vulnerable older people in further work, including among others. older with dementia. There should be no doubt about that, and we would be happy to implement the wishes that we have made with the Danish People's Party if we find the means to do so. There should be no doubt about that. We think the elderly are important, but we have come a long way with the agreements that have already been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153936	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003153938	Well that's far from good enough, and that's why Dansk Folkeparti and SF kept each other up on this, precisely that an extra billion should be added to the older area, also in addition to the promise that would come in relation to the welfare promise launched by Lars Løkke Rasmussen. So my question is this: does the SF have funds for the elderly in their desire for financial law negotiations? Now we have heard a lot about the children's area, and it is also important, but additional funds are also needed for the elderly area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154010	SF will also be negotiating in the area of older people. We are very concerned about the question of, among other things. Dementia, but also about more trust in, among others. Sosu assistants and sosu assistants in their daily work outside the elderly. I think it'll release some time if they don't have to spend so much time on documentation. There we have heard the Prime Minister say that the government would like to carry out a confidence reform in the public sector. SF is fully committed to this, because we believe that we can release some time, among other things. to more association with the vulnerable elderly who need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154040	Thank you. And the next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154045	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your speech to SF's rapporteur, and thank you for focusing on the children's area. This is also one of the things that really means a lot to us in the Left. One of the concerns of a great many children out there, especially in these days, is whether they risk their free school being closed on the basis of the announcement made yesterday by the government to reduce the subsidy to free schools. I would therefore very much like an answer from the SF rapporteur as to whether SF agrees with the announcement made by the government in connection with the Finance Act yesterday, i.e. whether there is a danger that real, very many schools, free schools, will close. So the real question is whether or not you support that proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154140	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154142	We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154145	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154147	Well, thank you so much, because I think this could be the only way we're gonna calm down. At least I can feel both on my phone and for that matter in the inbox that there are still many worries among the free schools. I would just like to hear: does this also mean that the SF does not believe that the coupling rate should change, but actually believes that the 76 per cent that they get today in free schools is what should be maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154218	So, the reason why I am smiling is that Mrs Anni Matthiesen and I always have a permanent debate at openings and endings. It's kind of nice, it's a little safe. So I'm sorry if I seem a little extra happy. But yes, I agree that the coupling rate should be as it is today. SF would like to look at whether social demands can be made or whether there should be other elements in relation to free schools in the future. I also hear that free schools are open to that. So we want to take that discussion, but the coupling rate must stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154246	Thank you. The next in the series of speakers is Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154253	Thank you. I would like to sign for SF's high ambitions in the area of climate and welfare in relation to education and children. There we are very much like each other, there is a great overlap, and we have a long political checklist which we would really like to cut off with, among other things. You guys. But even if we agree on the goal, we may not be entirely in agreement on the means, and it simply surprises us in the Radical Left that you are pulling an old travert like the property tax out of the stable. It was buried in 1997 by Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and has been dead for 22 years. Just as visionary, you are for Denmark's future, just as visionary, we would also like you to be for how it is to be financed. So my question to SF is: is it the case that we can expect in the near future that SF will also go with us into the 21st century and try to find funding opportunities for the whole party, which actually rhymes with the future and not the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154355	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154356	The SF is wearing those glasses that if we propose something, we must also finance it, and that is what the SF has come with. We have come up with concrete funding proposals, among others. The fortune tax. If the Radical Left can come up with funding proposals that are socially fair, then we are certainly willing to look at it too. We have not adopted a specific financing model. What we are concerned with is that it is green and that it is socially responsible. It must not be the socially vulnerable who are going to pay the party. We've seen this before. That's not gonna happen on SF's watch.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154427	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154428	I thank you for your reply and look forward to discussing it further at the negotiating table. I'd like to change paths. I am also interested in the minimum standards, as you know, and for us there is also the question of minimum standards being rights-based, that is to say, legal. There is my question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr: is it the case that in the municipalities, when there is no one educator for three children and one educator for six children, they will have some kind of police who can, like, come and impose fines on them, i.e. when these conditions are not respected? Or how do you plan to sanction it when it is legal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154517	Exactly in the same way as we do with the class ceiling: that you have a conversation with the municipality concerned. It's like we have a class ceiling of 28 students in our class. Not all municipalities live up to this, which is actually problematic, but there may be some very legitimate reasons why you may have 29 pupils in the class for a period of time. I imagine that's exactly the same thing we're going to see in the area of children. It's because we want to secure a bottom beneath our children. I am also pleased that the Radical Left has agreed that we should set a minimum level of law, and I hope that you will not run from the promise now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154551	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154554	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask how realistic SF thinks it is to get through with the wealth tax. Now it does not suggest that it is so realistic, even in the light of questions from the Radical Left. What, then, is SF's financing plan? Who will pay for all the fine welfare promises if you do not get through with the wealth tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154627	SF has, of course, made several proposals, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen is probably aware of. We have among other things. proposed tax on financial transactions, and we have looked at the tax on share dividends and, as Mr. Karsten Lauritzen will probably take note of it, it is a tax that turns the right end upwards. It is those with the widest shoulders who are allowed to finance our common welfare. But we do not imagine that we are going to burn the Danes or have to turn up some major tax screw. We just think that we can do it a little bit more fairly than what has happened in the last four years, and that is what we need to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154704	Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154706	Thank you. When you see the proposal for a Finance Act, which you must assume the SF President expects SF to be part of, we can derive from what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr expects, that, in addition to the tax increases that are there and there is a part of the Government's draft Finance Bill, you can expect, as a citizen and company, that yes, there are additional taxes and charges in the Finance Act to finance all the great wishes that the SF has and will fight for in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154732	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154733	As Mr. Karsten Lauritzen is probably aware of the negotiating reserve currently stands at 2.1 billion. kr. After all, we want to spend some money on children, education and the climate and are therefore willing to look at the possible funding proposals that need to be made. But the crucial thing for us is, of course, that they are socially fair, which also means that we do not gamble with everything that is central to Denmark. So, of course, it must also be done with thoughtful thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154801	Thank you for that, and the next in the line of questioners is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154807	I'd like to thank you for your speech. We in the Enhedslisten have been very pleased with the cooperation we have had with the SF on the preparation of the common understanding paper, and Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's speech confirmed me that we are moving in the same direction in the very long term when it comes to the climate when it comes to minimum standards when it comes to the removal of national tests in primary school. But there are also areas where our paths are divided. I would like to follow on from the question that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen asked whether SF's participation in parts of parallel community legislation was not concerned about the consequences of the withdrawal of a number of parents from the right to a free choice of daycare institution. children from a exposed residential area in an institution. One could read in Jyllands-Posten here the other day that there were now exemption applications from 63 institutions, because one considers that one cannot comply with the legislation, and thus one risks closure of the institution. Is that not a major problem and what does Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr think should be done about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154928	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003154929	Thank you very much, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. I am also pleased with the cooperation that we have had in connection with the understanding paper, but also subsequently, and I look forward very much to negotiating Finance Act with the Enhedslisten. I think that's gonna be holler. Having said that, on the whole parallel society package, one of the challenges is the 30%. in the day-to-day institutions. It has been SF's ambition to maintain the 30%. It has been a wish from us for a very, very long time, not only in relation to day care institutions, but also in relation to primary school and to youth institutions, because we want there to be a greater mix. We can see some youth institutions, for example. high schools where there are 100 percent original Danish students, and we have schools where there are 90 percent. by other ethnic origins. That is not where we are mixing, and then we will have to use various instruments. We also need to do this in a brilliant way, and now we need to look specifically at the challenges facing those institutions, for we are talking, for example. on institutions in residential areas which are at risk of closing down if we do not find solutions to this. I hope we can sit down and do it wisely, because the ambition must be for there to be mixed day institutions, including in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155042	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155043	In concrete terms, it is now up to the Minister whether a derogation should be granted to the 63 institutions when the law enters into force on 1 January 2020. Is it the case that the SF will guarantee that pressure is put on the Minister to actually grant exemptions so that we do not have to see institutional closures in the near future? And if it turns out that we are very close to the institutions turning the key, is the SF prepared to renegotiate the agreement, so that we avoid the consequence of the legislation being that very many children have to leave the institution they are going to go to today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155121	Now we have to see what specific institutions are involved and how far they are from achieving the objective, and we must also look at where they lie and what the prospects are. I think it must be an overall package that we need to look at in relation to the challenge that exists. There may well be institutions where we need to have a discussion about whether or not a derogation can be made. There may also be institutions where it makes no sense. And I can't guarantee that we can just make a model for all 63 of them. I think we should use some understanding, and I hear that's what Enhedslisten is calling for, and we in SF would like to try to deliver that. I am sorry that Enhedslisten cannot help us in those negotiations, but I am quite sure that Mrs Kirsten Normann will deliver on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155202	Thank you. And the last one we reach here is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155209	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her speech. I'm looking forward to working together. Politics must be made together, solutions must be made together, and it must be for Denmark's best. Regardless of the structure or ownership of a company, there are people behind it, just as there are in kindergartens that you are talking about, and it is also about jobs in companies. After all, the prerequisite for a good welfare system is that business grows and keeps supplying goods. Therefore, I would like to ask whether it is SF's view that the family-owned companies that actually employ 850,000 Danes will have better or worse opportunities to invest in new technology, green conversion, export, growth and new jobs if the inheritance tax is tripled.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155251	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155254	We support the Socialists' proposal to increase the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155302	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155303	I would also like to ask whether SF is interested in discussing inputs and facts relating to a company's valuation, which today creates some uncertainty for companies, because they do not know in advance, just as they did before with the asset tax rate, what the price really is. After all, today we value our future earnings and what goodwill is. Would you like to take a look at it? Just as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asks whether any of us have been in kindergarten, I would say that we might also be able to take a trip to the family-owned companies. Do you want to be part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155338	Now Mrs Mona Juul knows that I have been on several visits to Danish family-owned companies, and I am therefore also concerned that we are doing this wisely and intelligently. And we can certainly take a look at that. There should be no doubt about that. At the same time, however, it must also be borne in mind that a strong private sector is also dependent on our having a strong welfare society. So if we can just make that balance, I'm actually willing to both be open and listen and listen. It is not the same as changing our attitude to it, but I think it is a good starting point to always listen to those who are affected by the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155414	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003155429	Thank you. Thousands of people who here voted for and worked for a new direction • the young climate activists, whom I think have fortunately got their hands on, so we have all met them; the public employees; the parents who have shouted for minimum standards; patients who formed human chains around hospitals • all have perfectly justified expectations of what we are going to deliver now, after there has been a historically large new majority. We're kind of already in the process. Before the election campaign, only Enhedslisten and the Alternative were in favour of a 70-percent reduction in climate gases by 2030. It's pouring in with climate freaks in the Assembly Hall. I can barely keep up. Even sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has sprung out as one of us crazy climate freaks. All I'm thinking is that I just don't hope it's gonna be, like when you make a facebook event and ask your friends to come and help move on Sundays, and then everybody signs up, but when it gets Sunday morning, you're suddenly sick. In fact, I hope that the whole right side of the Assembly does not just say because we may disagree on the means, but we should agree on the climate law and the framework. There is a great opportunity for you to join the field. We have to decide on a new climate law. We're gonna do financial law negotiations. And then we have to decide whether to look for new oil in the North Sea or whether to bind future generations to more black energy. I think we should say no to this, if we are serious about leaving a planet for our children and grandchildren, which we can be familiar with. The unitary list goes to the financial law negotiations with proposals for better and cheaper public transport. We will give more space to forest and nature. And on those questions, even the newly hatched and the more experienced climate freaks should be able to join in. But that is not the only thing we need to do in the financial law we are going through now, because after decades of cuts, we really need to get things right and we need to develop our welfare. Psychiatry is one of the areas most neglected and where we are really looking now. Two years ago, a young man was discharged from a psychiatric ward in East Jutland, and his mother told me it was far too early. He had had such strong psychoses that he had been close to killing himself, and therefore he had been hospitalized. Then when he was released, it was for nothing. And 48 hours later, he was dead. It's not the only story of that kind. There are patients in the psychiatry who are being discharged, not because they are healthy enough to be discharged, but because there is no room. They are simply still in danger of life, and we cannot be familiar with that. I believe that the mother, who has a son enrolled in the psychiatric ward, somehow feels the same way as those who deliver their children in the day institutions or have parents or children in hospitals. We all have such a feeling that it all stretches a little, and that there is some way before we get that right security in our welfare that we really think we should have, and which is actually the whole reason why we care so much about the Danish welfare society. We just have to remember that good day care institutions, solid public schools and hospitals are not something you just build up from scratch in a few days. This is something we have inherited in generation after generation, and it is time that we began to deal with that legacy extremely. We need to rebuild because our welfare is something special. Then it is true what the Prime Minister said on Tuesday, in which several people have agreed with her, namely that we cannot fix everything at once. But it is not the same as not being felt. These are two different things. The first Finance Act must be felt in the welfare and it must be measured in the climate accounts. And there must be money for both minimum standards and beds in psychiatry and the green transition. And we don't have to choose between the three. I know that the Minister for Finance thinks I'm a little upset, and maybe I am, so I'm sorry, and I'll be happy again. But the truth is that the government's draft budget does not, in itself, mean an increase in our welfare. In fact, if we are to be completely honest, there is not enough money available to guarantee against redundancies and deterioration next year. There are also no measures in themselves that can be measured in the climate accounting. And the bag of money that has then been set aside to negotiate cannot, therefore, fix both tasks. It is of course crucial for Enhedslisten that we change that before we make a Finance Act. We are going constructively to the negotiations. We aim to be happier along the way, and fortunately we have plenty of ideas on how to turn our ambitions up, and we have concrete proposals to find the money as well. And once we have put forward proposals for financing, it is a proposal that does not raise the tax on labour. We have also found proposals for initiatives to find more hands, not to mention raising employment, i.e. real employment, and not this kind of semi-religious concept of labour supply that has spread in the Folketing in recent years. In total, there are over 8 billion. kr. in revenue from our draft budget, and that is actually more than we use. Because the money has to come from somewhere, but it also has to come from the right place. Over the last 20 to 30 years, over 45 billion have been spent. kr. in tax incentives. Zero times they have actually targeted the smallest revenue. Virtually every time the money is found in the welfare, social security, of those who have the least. This is why inequality resulting from political decisions has increased in our society. The consequence is that a larger and larger part of the cake goes to those who have the most. The Enhedslisten will not let that happen again. The next Finance Act is intended to increase equality in Denmark. But it looks good. I know it's not supposed to come out of a unitary mouth like that, but it may be because of my past. I am actually optimistic, because one of the first things we did as a new majority was to send an extra child check to some of the children's families in Denmark who have the very least. These are some families of children who are actually having a really, really hard time. And no matter how much you make videos and forks with the numbers, their reality is real enough. The outrage in the right has been very great, and it has had to be understood that the outrage was on behalf of wage earners, i.e. employees with low incomes: it must pay to work. We hear that over and over again. But quite frankly, if you really liked low-income employees, you'd have gotten into their finances enough to know that there's a lot of money, not small change, but a lot of money, unlike being on cash and being in work. And that's something that matters to those people in those income groups. One might wonder more why the taxation of shares and capital income was so much lower than for those who pay tax because they go to work. If the Right really cared so much about those who go to work every single day, then they would probably provide a proper social safety net for them, because most of them are going to get sick or unemployed during a long life. It's very common. If you really had a heart for people who work hard, then you wouldn't just let the retirement age rise and rise. Then they would not have been cut during their benefit period, reduced their national pension and cash benefits in order to provide top tax relief. And we would not neglect the fundamental importance of the trade unions for our social model to this day on the basis of a single, even stupid, but a single case. And some people here don't understand that. Instead of running the one who should be able to pay for the work record completely in the same groove. Therefore, I am really glad that, despite disagreements, we are now sitting with a government that well knows that employee rights matter, also for our society: I pay to your pension, trusting that you pay to mine; you pay to my daily allowance, trusting that I pay to yours. It is not least a government that has guaranteed the Enhedslisten ^ as its parliamentary basis that we now have a stop to the labour supply reforms that have dominated Danish politics for far too long and for too long have hit people who are sick and unemployed and given top tax relief to those who have the most. This is important because I never meet employees who are wondering whether life would not be a little fatter on cash benefits than being in work. On the other hand, I meet a lot of people who worry about what their lives will be like if they get sick when they get worn out when they grow old. And those, along with our planet and our welfare, we need to start taking care of now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160435	Thank you to the rapporteur. It was exactly, on the second. Thank you. The first to be able to make a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160447	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Skipper, for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Pernille Skipper was also in the Folketing, as Enhedslisten was last a support party to a social-democratic government, however, with various other parties sometimes and has gained some experience. And now I know that you can see it as a joke, but it is not really, because I am actually glad that it happened that way. But Enhedslisten last time as a support party had little success in getting through much. This has led to reflection at Enhedslisten; that is how I have taken it down. That is why I would like to ask whether these are new times now and whether Mrs Pernille Skipper expects, for example, during this parliamentary term that we are in. will be able to overcome its desire for a marked relaxation of foreign policy. Is that Enhedslisten and Mrs. Pernille Skipper's expectation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160538	It is quite true that we have had some experience of that, I think, is the nice way to put it. First of all, it is not entirely true that we did not get through much; in fact, a great deal happened in the green area. It wasn't so modern back then, I know, but a lot happened there. Then some things happened that took Denmark in completely the wrong direction, i.e. inequality increased, top tax relief was granted, etc. Hopefully this has led to reflection by the three parties that sat in government at the time. That's what they say, and I believe that too. This has also led to reflection at Enhedslisten, and that is why we have an understanding paper. The Enhedslisten said that before we sit down on our mandates, we must have met some conditions and we must agree on the direction. What do I expect from foreign policy? Well, unfortunately, this is one of the things for which there is still a majority, i.e. what is called a tight immigration policy. I can put some other and better adjectives on what I very much disagree with. But we have got some things through, and I am counting on and hope that we can convince the Socialists of other wise things. There I heard at least a small crack, but I admit that it will probably not be Enhedslisten that dictates immigration policy unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160659	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160700	Thank you for your answer. I am asking, of course, on behalf of all those who voted on the Enhedslisten, and that is perhaps a little strange, because they have voted for a completely different foreign policy from that of my party, but I am just asking because I think they have an expectation. So can one conclude that it is also Mrs Pernille Skipper's expectation that the government will be led by a completely different policy on foreigners... let us not use the word reliefs than that of the previous government? Is that what you can expect if you have voted on the Enhedslisten, and is that what Mrs Pernille Skipper expects you to get through in this parliamentary term with the new government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160746	It's classified what's going on inside the voting box, sir. Karsten Lauritzen. So we're just saying you talked to a friend, right? I'm kidding. In other words, the honest answer is: No, I do not expect that we will get the Socialists to completely change foreign policy. I have a dream about it, and we're gonna keep pushing for it. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and all the others, I think, are well aware that the Enhedslisten disagrees with the line taken by the Social Democrats. And I don't have time to explain how much is wrong with it. But no, I do not have the expectation that we will have it completely changed, but I have a hope for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160835	Thank you. We are staying a little close to the area of foreigners, because Mrs Pernille Skipper, together with her friends, has got through the fact that those who are living in Denmark are not supposed to be on the island of Lindholm. Perhaps that is the easy part of the decision. The hard part will then be to find out: What then? Now I tried in my questions to Mr. Morten Østergaard to find out what is going to happen to these people, who are, after all, people sentenced to 10 or 12 years for murder and who are therefore sentenced to expulsion; they are rapists who have been convicted of rape and who have therefore been sentenced to expulsion; they are people who have committed something in relation to the terrorist decree and are therefore sentenced to expulsion. After all, it is people that we have in Denmark today who are on tolerated stays in Denmark. Maybe they're at Kærshovedgård now, and they're not going to Lindholm. It's decided. Then what are they gonna do? Where are they going? Sir. Morten Østergaard talked a little about them spreading around the country, but I didn't get much smarter about that, because where and under what conditions? Can Mrs Pernille Skipper tell us a little about what Enhedslisten wants to happen to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003160947	This is a lot of different people. There are also some of the people who have convictions for having had 5 g of hashish in their pockets, as far as I remember. So it's a lot of different people. But they have it in common that they have all served their sentence. I know that it is currently not very politically correct to talk about human rights, but they have ended their sentence. This is how it works in a democratic society. That is why I believe that human rights count for them, even if they have committed terrible crimes. That is the way it is organized in democracies. Having said that, I do not know where they are going yet. We'll find out. It is part of the negotiations that must begin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161030	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161031	It is for this to neglect the doings and the barn of these people in Denmark and this to say that they have endured their punishment, that they are such fine people, and so do not care that it could be a sentence of 12 years in prison for killing and expulsion: Part of the punishment is also expulsion, part of the punishment is that they are sentenced to expulsion, but they do not leave the country. And some of these people can travel out of the country, but their countries say that they will only accept them if they leave voluntarily and we cannot force them to go. I'll just say again: the easy part of it was to say that the solution that we had found to try more to isolate these people from the Danish community, namely to place these people on the island of Lindholm, was completely hopeless. It was a foolish solution, and it has been taken off the table. What's gonna happen to these people? It's not like people have been taken to have a few grams of hashish in their pockets. These are people who have been convicted of killing, rape and crimes against Denmark in relation to the rules of terrorism. What's gonna happen to these people in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161129	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161133	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl knows that there are Danish citizens who have committed the kind of crimes that serve their punishment and then get another chance. This is how it works in Danish society. And yes, we are talking about expulsions which, for some, could go home and which, for others, cannot go home. I just have to say something to the rhetoric that's being used around it, because it's not just that this is the devil on Earth, and then you can throw those people into a black hole. But I admit that a solution needs to be found where we do it properly and where we also take account of the local areas, by not just putting a lot of previously convicted people in the same place and creating a lot of insecurity. So we have to find a solution and find different places in the country so that we do not gather them and insecurity in one place. I think that is an important point that Morten Østergaard made earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161217	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Morten Østergaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161220	It is true that we have sometimes seen a little different economic policy, but I can tell that there is a common ambition to create the basis for greater economic room for manoeuvre. We have actually committed ourselves to this in the understanding paper in a way that overall increases employment in Denmark. But when I look at Enhedslisten's draft Finance Bill, there are some things that jump into the eye. For example: There has also been a lot of talk in the election campaign about cigarette taxes. I would just like to ask: is it the case that Enhedslisten is also involved in raising the tax on cigarettes more than the government is proposing, mainly for reasons of public health, but also with the side effects that it contributes both to one thing and the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161313	The unitary list has the position that I think the Radical Left also has, namely that cigarettes should cost DKK 60. per package. It is not, in fact, because we think it is a good source of income. That is because it is there that the experts recommend that we set the level so that it has a preventive effect and prevents young people from starting smoking cigarettes. We really want them not to start doing that. Then we would also very much like us to spend some of the revenue that comes from it to ensure that we make better efforts towards the socially vulnerable, because it may have a social battle side. And our health services generally have a major problem with inequality in health. So we'd like to do that, too. But yes, we also have the attitude that 50 kr. per package is too little and that it should be 60 DKK. I hope that both the Radical Left and the SF will form a holy/holy alliance on that point too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161407	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161408	When I ask, it is just because in reality, when we discuss this with the financial balances, there is the possibility that, if you want to strengthen public health, you can look at some taxes on unhealthy food or unhealthy consumption. After all, it is not most people who eat cigarettes and you can look at taxes on pollution. In fact, if we reduce taxes on labour, we will have helped both to increase employment, to create more room for manoeuvre and to promote the green transition or equality of health. That's why I'm actually just asking Enhedslisten: is it really that bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161446	I think I'll make the intersection a little different or yes, we will in the Enhedslisten. Because it is true that taxes can be used to regulate behaviour, and that is certainly one of the things we need to talk about when it comes to the whole green transition. But if you, for example... Looking at our climate initiative, which brings us to the goal of a 70-percent reduction by 2030 and which, moreover, is fully funded, it does not increase inequality. It doesn't, because when, for example, we do. We are going to raise the tax on petrol, we are going to bring them crowns back to the green check, to the lowest incomes, and not just to people who are in work. It is to ensure that we do not increase inequality in our society. It is very important for us, when we use excise duties, that the aim should not be to find revenue. The aim must be to change behaviour and ensure that inequality does not increase at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161536	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next question is Karsten Hønge from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161539	In her speech, Mrs Pernille Skipper mentioned her mood a few times, and it made me think back to 2016. There was nothing wrong with the mood. There was dancing on the tables because the English had voted out of the European Union. And Enhedslisten said that so ein ding müssen wir auch haben here understood as a referendum. It was even given a date, and it would then be constitutional day the following year. I understand that the party has evaluated and has come to the conclusion that it was probably a little too fast on the trigger. But when you look at the Enhedslisten's EU programme, it continues to say that you are opposed to the EU and that you want Denmark to leave the EU. So now I ask: when is the idea of this happening and when should the vote be? Is there an association with the EU a la the Norwegian model? It is a model that we can see that now in England they could not dream of suggesting themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161629	So it is quite right that we have learned that we should also prefer to learn from the situation that is currently in England, which is huge, very chaotic. So, although Enhedslisten is very critical of the European Union as an institution and believes that some fundamental things need to be changed in international cooperation, so that it is international cooperation that actually puts climate and employee rights first, we do not think there should be a referendum until we have seen what the consequences of brexit are and have learned from it properly. It is important, if you are going to have such a referendum, that you know exactly what you are voting on. We just have to admit that when we look at brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161710	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161712	Is it not just a twist of words, Mrs Pernille Skipper, that the Enhedslisten is critical So, in your programme it says that you are against We are also in the SF critical towards the EU, just as we are to all institutions, but we are not against the institution itself that is where the distance is. However, if Enhedslisten is now no longer opposed to the European Union, I think I should like to mark my calendar today in relation to the fact that it has been established. But while we are now talking about the future, what can we do with the European Union? Now the EU is proposing earmarked maternity for fathers. This is one thing that we think is a very good idea, and I guess no one is too fine to accept a good thing, no matter where it comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161749	Yes, SF is critical of the EU. And yes, in the Enhedslisten we are opposed to the European Union. The institution is built up undemocratically and ensures that the free movement of goods and the ability of large companies to exploit underpaid labour and also to print pay and working conditions in Denmark come before the consideration of employees' rights. Well, that's what we can do. So I'd like the SF to turn the criticism up a little sometimes. Having said that, I would say specifically in relation to the maternity proposal that Enhedslisten has fought for it all the way through when we had the majority last and SF was not on earmarked maternity leave. We would like it to be implemented by a majority, democratically anchored in the Folketing. It's just my basic view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161842	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next question is Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161846	Thank you. On 10 May 2019, the Enhedslisten presented a proposal for enhanced penalties in the field of money laundering, and Mr. Rune Lund, that in relation to higher penalties it will be considered that one should be able to risk as much as 12 years in prison. As a Conservative, of course, I am pleased that Enhedslisten agrees that it can have a preventive effect with higher penalties. And what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur can mention other areas where higher penalties can have a preventive effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003161934	If you look at the research, especially of such calculated calculating crime, it shows very clearly that the presence of punishment, together with the risk of discovery, can have a preventive effect. And when we look at money laundering, tax evasion, the penalty levels, we think, are very low. But it has to be combined with an increased risk of discovery. In other words, one of the huge problems we have at the moment is that the tax authorities have been spared bite by bit, tax worker for tax worker, and therefore one is not discovered when one evades tax in Denmark • the risk is simply too small. So the two things combined are good tools, especially when it comes to financial crime and other forms of calculated planned crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162024	Sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162026	Thank you. I'm gonna try one more time. Does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that it is possible to find areas other than money laundering and financial crime where, of course, it is also important that we have tightened penalties where one could also imagine that there would be a possibility that it had a preventive effect? I know, of course, that the Enhedslisten has consistently voted against higher penalties for other crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162102	That is simply not correct. Now I have been a legal rapporteur for a while in here and it is not true that the Enhedslisten has consistently voted against higher penalties. We have proposed higher penalties, particularly in the economic field, which are different forms of crime, I should just like to say hello to you because the penalties have not been followed up and, in these areas in particular, have an effect. But then we must also vote in favour of raising the penalty for rape and other forms of perilous crime. What we have been critical of is the idea that it is all about increased punishment, that is to say, that we must keep on putting up the penalties, and that, moreover, it is almost the only thing we can get out of a Conservative Justice Minister, no matter how many years he gets to sit there, so that the only solution one has on anything, is to increase the penalties when we know that, compared to a great many forms of crime, it has just no effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162156	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question in the line is Mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162159	First of all, I would like to thank you for the good couple race that the Alternative and Enhedslisten have had on the green agenda for many years. It is just so nice to see that there is now almost consensus across all the parties. It's a huge pleasure. My question to the rapporteur could actually have been put to all the support parties and also to the Prime Minister. It's a little different from what we usually discuss down here. When you read the paper of understanding, it does not say a word about culture, and we who have not been in that negotiating room may well be surprised that none of the parties has weighed it so much that at least two lines came along on it. And it is at the same time that we in this Chamber hear again and again how important the Danish values are and that it is important that we strengthen Danish society. And if there's anything that's gonna do it, it's culture. Then the rapporteur could just give us a little insight into why there is not one line on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162307	I can start by saying thank you and you as well. There is no doubt that we have very good cooperation in the green area, and after the Left has come on board the 70%, we are gradually achieving a historic result in which the alternative has a very large part, and I thank you for that. I would also like to thank you for a more than good question. After all, culture is neglected and sometimes also in our own party, so that we do not put it at the top of the agenda even if we sit 21 days in a negotiating room. But I know that this is something we want to do better, and it may be that we can develop good cooperation with the Alternative here too. I think that one of the most important things we need to do during this period is to strengthen public service. And then I know that we also have a cultural rapporteur who is very keen to make culture more inclusive and to ensure that many more people have access to it, especially some of those who do not have so much in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162409	I fully agree with that. We also have good cooperation in this area, and there is also a very committed rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. But one thing is that there is nothing in the paper of understanding; another is that we are then told that the re-priority contribution, which everyone has been critical of in the field of education and culture, is not being lifted in the field of culture, although the Social Democracy in the election campaign went out very clearly and said that the re-prioritisation contribution would of course also be removed in the field of culture. Now we're told it doesn't. In fact, I want this government to do really, really well, so shouldn't we help the government change its mind about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162459	I think that sounds an extremely good idea, and I would just like to say that it certainly surprises us in the Enhedslisten that the re-prioritisation contribution in the field of culture has not been removed. We are going to talk much more about this in the negotiating rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162509	Then the next questioner is in line, sir. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162513	Thank you for the floor. Enhedslisten wants to reduce agricultural production in order to reduce the Danish CO2 It will all other equal lead to loss of wealth and also less money for welfare. If we shut down production in Denmark, this simply means that the same goods will be produced in another country with a corresponding or larger CO2 does Mrs Pernille Skipper think that this is an appropriate way of solving the climate challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162541	The Enhedslisten does not just want to close agriculture. It would be quite absurd, and I think it is actually a bad idea that the green discussion that we have fortunately been constantly discussing is whether to be for or against agriculture. We are certainly not against agriculture. But if you realize that you are in a climate crisis and that Denmark has a responsibility, and you join the field there and now I think that New Citizens are the only ones who haven't reported on the 70-percent reduction, but it could be that you got on better thoughts. You have to look at the reduction and emissions of agriculture. They are therefore responsible for one third of Denmark's emissions, and we therefore propose, for example, that we take some of the farmland which is worst to produce on and thus emit a great deal of CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162651	Then I have a very general question. If we take steps to reduce CO2 2 Mrs Pernille Skipper does not think that it is to cheat on weight if we achieve our 70%. simply by moving part of the discharge abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162727	However, I do not think anyone is suggesting that we should simply move emissions abroad. On the contrary, there is a whole lot of talk about the fact that we should not cheat on the weight by reducing our national emissions by planting forest elsewhere in the world or moving around on some quotas. On the contrary. After all, we are talking about real national reductions. But it is true that the whole idea behind the Paris Agreement is that all countries must reduce. Denmark has a special obligation. We're some of the people in the world who make the most of it. citizens, and we must, of course, do not succeed if we are the only ones doing anything. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162810	The next question is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162811	Thank you to the rapporteur for a passionate talk about climate and inequality. I am convinced that the green transition requires some liberal tools, so to speak. It may be that the green cars must be exempt, including the wealthier's Tesla, that the tax on surplus heat may have to be abolished and, at the very least, a green conversion will mean that shareholders in supercapitalist companies such as Vestas will have crowned days. It may have a consequence for the vital social nerve, the canary bird in the coal mine, it is of course the Gini coefficient that I am talking about which can go and rise by a decimal or two, and it will sooner or later put the Enhedslisten in the dilemma that they have to choose, prioritize between spending money on less inequality or more climate: can one accept that Copenhagen is under water if only the Gini coefficient has fallen slightly? What's more important? Is it that the oceans don't rise or that inequality doesn't increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003162913	I just don't know who turned that Gini coefficient into a canary. At least it's not us. Well, you can easily think of isolated things that Enhedslisten has voted in favour of in Parliament, which has a small negative effect on the Gini coefficient. It has never been a sacred cow to us. It's something that this side of the hall makes it. But when inequality increases and increases in our society and it's not just a small touch on the Gini coefficient, but it's because a lot more of the values we have in society are stranded with a few rather than going to our welfare community schools, hospitals, a green transition • then we have a problem. So if I really have to answer an otherwise superpolemic question, I would say: you can give it a touch on the Gini coefficient, it will not be what stands in the way. But I would also like to say that this is a completely false premise. Because we have just shown with a well-thought-out, fully funded concrete climate plan that we can do so without increasing inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163021	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163023	I would really just like to welcome the fact that Enhedslisten no longer cares so much about whether the Gini coefficient is changing, whether the inequality is increasing as long as it is only a little, and that is after all only a little, the inequality has increased in Denmark. I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper's declared love for the happy liberal message earlier today makes much more sense now. So I'm actually just gonna sign for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163045	The next question in the line... I'm sorry, it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163051	That's fair enough. It could just stand. I just want to say that if the Liberal Alliance has now realised that the Gini coefficient is not what we are talking about when we talk about inequality in our society, and it is the Liberal Alliance that cares so much about it, then that is fine. So let's just say it's new. At least that's new for the Liberal Alliance. Great.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163114	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163118	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Lindholm a few questions. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's question. Let me start by saying that I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper that a good tone must be kept, and I also fully agree that human rights must be respected. I would just like to ask specifically: where should the people who should have been at Lindholm be now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163150	It's not clear yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163158	The Enhedslisten must have an opinion on where the people should be, so I am just trying to ask again: Where should the people who should have been on Lindholm be if Enhedslisten can decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163214	Well, hopefully we'll have some conversations with the government and the other support parties about that. I think it is important, on the one hand, to ensure that we do not put everyone together in a place and create insecurity in a local area, on the other hand, that we do so relatively cheaply and, at least, do not waste tax dollars unnecessarily, and, on the other hand, that we also ensure that human rights are not just on the verge of being respected, but are actually respected. Being on toiled for an indefinite period is not a joke. It may be that these are bad people we do not like, but their rights must also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163251	The next question is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163256	Thank you for that, President. In relation to the question that has just been asked, I could understand from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that these people who have been tolerant are some who have been taken with five grams of hashish in their pockets, so it is probably not so bad. Now I want to say what kind of people they are: they are barely 80 people. There are 18 drug-related crimes; there are 18 war crimes; there are 12 rapes; there are 8 murders; there are 6 serious acts of violence and threats; there are 3 acts of violence with death; there are 3 acts of robbery; there are 2 acts of arson; there are 2 acts of trafficking in human beings; there are 2 risks to the security of the state and 1 acts of terrorism. So these are the ones that Enhedslisten has now helped decide should not be on Lindholm. We do not know where to make of the people they must move freely in Denmark. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I also have to ask Enhedslisten the question: Where are the people going to be when they are not going to be on Lindholm? This must have been considered. Having voted and said that they should not be on Lindholm, what considerations have been made in the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163359	Well, I've answered that question. We will find out, we do not know in concrete terms. What do we think? Yes, we think we should make sure that we place them in some places so that they are not gathered somewhere and create insecurity in a local area, but that we get them scattered, so that we also take into account that there are different people with different convictions among them. I think we should make it relatively cheap and certainly not waste unnecessary tax dollars, as Lindholm would do. And then I'd be happy to listen to what else we have to do. It is not a black and white discussion about what to do with people on tolerated stays. They're in a legal limbo. They have been expelled from Denmark, but they cannot leave Denmark. It is not such an uncomplicated question, I admit, but it can still go away after a number of years in the Folketing I wonder if you can take something that is really so complex, and then keep trying to make it that I should have said that they should just be allowed to walk freely around, that it doesn't matter, and that they are probably all just nice people. On the contrary. But it is a complex question and I do not have the full answer, but I have answered what Enhedslisten thinks of principles and what should be included in debates.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163514	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163515	The Enhedslisten has replied that a decision has been taken that is not known about the consequences of. I would just like to say to Enhedslisten that we are living in a community governed by the law, as the rapporteur also said, and that these people have stood before a Danish judge. Most of them have abused the confidence that Danish society has shown them. They've committed a criminal act. After all, most of them have been resident in Denmark first, after which they have committed a criminal act, have stood for a Danish judge in the Danish legal system and have been sentenced to expulsion from Denmark. Doesn't Enhedslisten mean that they have to be somewhere where we have them under control, for example on Lindholm, so we know where these people are?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163553	Well, Enhedslisten thinks we need to know where people on tolerated stays are and that we need to get this under control. Does Enhedslisten think that they should be on an island, which it costs a lot of money to make useful for the purpose, and which creates insecurity in the local area? No, we think that's a bad idea. And no, we haven't made a decision; we just don't know where those people are going to be now. Well, they're not on Lindholm. We have decided not to spend a lot of money refurbishing an island that the Danish People's Party got through, because then you had something to celebrate. And then we have to figure out what to do. They are not wandering freely in parks and gardens and backyards now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163634	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question in the line is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163639	I really think it's interesting that this Gini coefficient thing doesn't matter to Enhedslisten anymore. No matter how much Mrs Pernille Skipper takes her head to the head when you ask the question, lean her head to the side, pick her earring, look unengaged, etc., I still want to claim that it has meant a great deal to Enhedslisten in the past. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. has presented our plan, which will increase the Gini coefficient by just two percentage points, then we have been told by Enhedslisten that it was simply a social mass grave we were undertaking in Denmark. But I now understand that with our climate policy we can increase inequality a little bit. And that is of course interesting, also in relation to the question that Mr. Morten Østergaard asked. The most effective tool to get CO 2 And then we can use the revenue to do some other things that create growth and jobs in Denmark • lower the top tax, lower corporate tax, lower the electricity tax and other things. Is Enhedslisten open to such things if they only marginally increase inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163748	It's my fault, too, isn't it? I came to say something with nuances. Laughter I should know better, I really should know better. Enhedslisten has a gigantic problem with Liberal Alliance's inequality-building policy just so that we are in complete agreement. We have a gigantic problem with the idea that we should dismantle our welfare society, and that it doesn't matter that inequality just goes crazy, because we actually think it's smart, because it makes Denmark strong economically, because it's a smart way to fit in with a welfare society. It gives more opportunities to everyone, including those who aren't born with a gold spoon in their mouths and that it gives a strength in itself that there isn't a long way from top to bottom in a society like the Danish one. And when the inequality increases and it does so, it is both an expression of the breakage, but also an expression of the lack of money for our community, our schools, our hospitals, the green transition. Yeah, so just apologize for the nuances. We don't agree with the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163900	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163902	The Enhedslisten is probably the most uncanny party in the Folketing. If you propose some reforms that will make Denmark look a little like Sweden, then Enhedslisten says that you want to dismantle the welfare society and that you want to make the inequality explode. It's as unmanageable as it can be. Our plan back then, on which we went to the polls, meant that the Gini coefficient increased from approx. 26 to approx. 28, i.e. a very small increase. But I have to understand that, if the climate is to benefit, we can operate with such small increases in the Gini coefficient. It is nice to have the palette expanded in such a way that we can find sensible solutions to the climate problem and that we are not locked in that the Gini coefficient should not rise by half or a whole, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003163949	When we decide whether a proposal that increases inequality is a bad idea, we do not do it on the basis of the Gini coefficient, but then we do it on the basis of whether you take social security, rights, money from some of those who have the least in our society, for example, to use it. (ii) tax reductions which benefit the richest of all. That is why we are very much opposed to the hottest dream of the Liberal Alliance, namely top tax concessions, because they take money from our community and give it to some of those who have the most. That is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164027	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164031	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Skipper, we are very much looking forward to making a super-ambitious climate law together in the Radical Left, hopefully as ambitious as the plan put forward by Enhedslisten during the election campaign. However, we are rather sensitive to the fact that the Enhedslisten, during the election campaign in the spring, has talked on several occasions about the inclusion of an air tax in the financing plan. But when we look at your financial laws now, we miss the flight fee. What happened to it? Why has it been withdrawn from your financial bill? And wouldn't you like to take radical left hand and get a CO2 in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164120	Thank you for the question. First of all, a correction: the Enhedslisten presented his climate plan back in February, well before the election campaign. And then it is true that in that climate plan there is a proposal for a progressive aviation tax, where we put a very small tax on the first flights and the short flights, but then the tax increases, the several times in one year you fly, and the longer you fly. In the climate plan we actually also write that we cannot calculate CO2 We cannot actually calculate the revenue either, but we would like to show that it is actually possible to do something in relation to air traffic and we need to do so without creating a huge social imbalance while at the same time ensuring that people who save up to get on a holiday once or two a year can still do so. It is not theirs So we would really like to discuss that if that is what the Radical Left would like to be involved in discussing, but it is not in our draft budget because we have actually deliberately never calculated the proceeds of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164226	It sounds good that Enhedslisten would like to talk about an air tax. However, we would also like us to try out perhaps a little along the lines which the other side of the House has also laid down to make a weighing-up here. Does Enhedslisten think that every time we talk about climate and green taxes, we run into this argument that it's social inequality? Isn't it a show stop and a wall that we bump into every single time? Well, where's the tip point for you guys?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164302	So it is not an argument that is falling into reality. First of all, it is basically unfair if some of the same people who have paid with their welfare, their pensions, their daily allowances, their security through the economic crisis, again So, yes, it is those who make the most of it and have the most to pay the most, it is also a clear prerequisite for us. And we have also shown that this can actually be done. And even if you didn't care that it was unfair...
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164340	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164344	Thank you. The radical leader, sir. Morten Østergaard, has said that he has been given a guarantee of courage, and I quote that banging up taxes, because the understanding paper states that initiatives which may reduce employment will be matched by other measures which at least increase employment accordingly. In all friendship from one old VU to another: does the rapporteur agree with the interpretation of the understanding paper by Mr Beazley? Morten Østergaard's side?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164418	I mean, the interpretation? It says, of course, that if employment is to be reduced somewhere else, it must be increased somewhere else. But I would just like to point out that there is no job supply. On the contrary. We are talking about real hands, real employment. During the discussions on the understanding paper, the Enhedslisten has presented and will also come in conjunction with the Finance Act here to put forward proposals on how to increase employment, ensure that more trained educators and nurses come to our welfare, ensure that there are more hands when we want to do all the good things we want, among other things. in the field of welfare. But it's employment. It is not a job offer, and that is a very important point to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164504	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164506	Now I was not talking about employment, but about taxation. Sir. Morten Østergaard has just said that there is a guarantee against the fact that the rapporteur's answer is such that the Enhedslisten does not agree with the Radical Left that there is a guarantee that taxes will be increased?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164529	Of course, there is no guarantee against setting up any taxes at all. But I don't know what that shred of taxes means, so I'm not even sure I want to do it myself. These things are really doing something for the job offer, so the answer is: it is not going to happen with a government that secures the mandates of Enhedslisten, but it is of course not surprising to anyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164606	The next question in the line I would like to see in the back of the hall. That's it! The next question is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164617	Thank you. There's more of us here who have hard names. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for her uplifting remarks about climate freaks. As a new young climate-mad transport rapporteur, I am pleased to know that we have an ally in the Enhedslisten, when we are about to make a green transition in the transport sector, to remind the government that there is a 70-percent CO 2 In the SF, we believe that cycling has an important role to play in the green transformation of the transport sector. Unfortunately, the previous government did not think so, which is why it is rather sluggish to move people from the piggy diesel cars on the relatively short stretches and onto the bike instead. In the SF, we would like to set priorities for cycling and invest in cycling being allowed to live up to its potential in the green transition. That is why I should like to hear from Mrs Pernille Skipper whether the Enhedslisten agrees that the bicycle has an important role to play in the green transition of the transport sector and that priority should be given to bicycle policy in the new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164720	I would just get so many scolds from Mr. Henning Hyllested, if I answered no to that question. So yes, the bike has a really important, a really important priority. Everyone sits down there laughing, because they know it's true that he would be furious if I said no. The bike is really important. We are going this time to finance negotiations with a requirement to set the prices of public transport • buses and took down by 30%, and we think this is a really important place to start, because it can show some of the many people who may be insecure about what the green transition really means and who are also a little insecure about where the bill should be, that it is not just a matter of lifting a bill. If we do it smartly, we can also make everyday life easier and better for a lot of people. But, by the way, I agree with you that cycling is central and I am sure that Mr. Henning Hyllested would really like to elaborate on the very many good proposals that we have, but which I do not remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164814	The rapporteur agrees with the second question. Here's the questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164820	Thank you. That's nice to hear, and I'm really glad that you're saying it, because I noticed that the government had completely forgotten cycling in their financial act despite the transport minister's fine new cycling profile picture on Twitter. But I was also a little surprised that cyclism did not appear in Enhedslisten's financial law play here the other day. However, I understand that I may still be able to lure Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten to fight for cycling in the financial law negotiations in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164854	After all, we are looking forward to seeing the financial bill of the SF, which I think will come soon, because it almost sounds like we can read something about cycling in the financial bill. Surely this is a good proposal that we can support. We also hope, of course, that SF will join with Enhedslisten in a proposal to lower the prices of public transport. Well, it's two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164919	Thank you to the rapporteur. I can say that when one asks more, I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003164928	Thank you. Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I noticed that there is now the possibility that the mood may rise • it is nice. And I noticed that you want to take good care of our country, which is why I know now that the mood will rise to astronomical heights. It is thus that the Russians step up their offensive traits quite violently up in the Arctic. They do the relocations of many fighter planes and aircraft from Nagurskoye Island in the archipelago of Franz Josef's Land, the world's northernmost battle airplane base, from which to reach Thule Base. The North Fleet, located on the Kola Peninsula, has significant parts of Russia's strategic missile submarines that have long-range ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads. In an interview with Mrs. Eva Flyvholm on TV2 News on 24 August at 12:00. 8:00 a.m. If you're going in and watching it, you were asked whether Enhedslisten wanted to expand Denmark's actions in the Arctic. I was a little confused by the announcements that came from the Enhedslisten, as on the one hand you wanted to maintain the minimal monitoring that is currently, and on the other hand you wanted to step up the monitoring at the end of the interview. So the question on our part is how you want to participate in strengthening our security in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165051	I would like to start by thanking the author of the question and point out that the indictment in the Chamber cannot be made in the second person. Niels Flemming Hansen Sorry!). You address each other with Mr. and Mrs. That gives the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165107	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. Thank you for the time sheet for the interview with Mrs Eva Flyvholm. I would just like to ask her, I think. I have not heard the interview, and therefore I do not know exactly what it is about, but I believe that what Mrs Flyvholm has said is that it is important that we, on the one hand, ensure proper monitoring in the Arctic and that Greenland, for example, has a right to monitor its own waters, but, on the other hand, should not contribute to increasing militarisation in those waters. As the rapporteur also very clearly outlined, this is certainly not what is needed in those areas of the world ■ on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165150	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165152	Thank you. Just for me and everyone else to understand: You don't want to increase surveillance despite the tremendously increased activity in our backyard. But does the situation not prove that we need NATO today to fight for a free world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165212	That is simply not what I said. I didn't say we wouldn't do that. We say that, on the one hand, we must ensure that those opportunities are provided in the Arctic and that the Greenlanders have the right to monitor their waters, but, on the other hand, we must also ensure that this does not contribute to increasing militarisation. What is quite specific about monitoring measures to which the questioner may refer, we may have to take bilaterally, because I am not quite sure what is being referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165242	That is how I should like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003165256	Thank you. Then we've been at it for almost seven hours, and a lot has been said. I hope that the Members of the Things are still awake or have had a dinner sleep, because now it has to be good or something like that. There's something wrong in Denmark, Dybbøl Mølle is painting all the way up and then there's something you can't say from Parliament's platform. The text is John Mogensens, and it could almost also have been the Prime Minister's from Tuesday. I think, Madam Prime Minister, that was a rather gloomy picture of what our country looks like. I think Denmark is a wonderful country, and I do not recognise that there should be division and misfortune between us. That's some of what I thought I heard in the speech. But enough about it. The Danish economy has never been better thanks to bourgeois reforms. We have a record employment, a large economic space, fewer on public support, we have the lowest influx of asylum for over 10 years, and the Conservative People's Party is bigger than it has been for years, it is probably also a form of bonus. And we can make Denmark better, but the starting point is good. It's actually going pretty well. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister tried with a vote of expectation, and several of the government's actions will not be noticed at all, we were not explained in the short term. But you can't feel it if you get fired from a family-owned company. I mention this, and we have talked about it here today because yesterday the government tabled a financial bill with a threefold increase in the tax on generational change in family-owned companies. In fact, I think that the proposal made by the government is getting closer to the misery. That is why I would also like to vote in favour of the Conservatives now that the political season really begins. We are bourgeois clear and clear, but our role in the opposition is twofold. We will be bourgeois voices working and negotiating results home to the Danes, and I am delighted that we are in a position where our votes can also be used to count to 90. But we will also fight against it when we believe that the freedom, security and private economy of the Danes are being pressured and when their jobs are threatened because the state demands money. Basically, however, we want to work together, including in finding a solution to the climate crisis, because whether you are a socialist, a liberal or a conservative, the climate crisis will affect us if we just watch. The climate crisis is a crisis for all people. We all get the problems of higher water levels, millions of climate refugees, extreme weather and an ecosystem that can come out of balance. That is why I would also like to recognise the government and its support parties. They have set an ambitious climate target for a 70-percent CO 2 Barren is set high. No one today knows how to achieve this, but I am pleased to say that we in the Conservative People's Party will also aim for the same goal for the benefit of our planet. It is easy to say that you have that ambition. Of course, it will be difficult to execute it. In this parliamentary year, we will work for the best possible conditions for our businesses so that they can create jobs. We will continue to work to reduce taxes on Danes. We want to grow and fight for personal freedom. This is also true when it comes to tackling climate challenges. I do not think that the Danes want the climate bill to be paid with light notes and higher taxes. We need to focus more on reforms and the positive contribution of industry, international solutions and research. There are two ways to achieve our climate objectives. We can either raise taxes, destroy growth and seriously intervene in personal freedom, or we can reform and invest and get more people into work and become a richer society. The Prime Minister's opening speech on Tuesday put forward a proximity reform. I would like to hear more about the vicinity and discuss it, because there is something in the financial bill that I do not think is as close or safe at least not as I see it. It seems that the government will make it more expensive for the approx. 120,000 children and their parents who have now actively chosen a free school or private school. The government will introduce a tax that can affect companies that take social responsibility, because it will be more expensive to have an employee who gets sick. And then 500,000 Danes must continue to pay taxes on their mobile phones. There could otherwise have been an administrative burden removed and tax abolished on a work tool agreed by the previous government and the Danish People's Party. I think closeness is that we will have even more local police officers who create security. We're on it, here's something to continue with. I think closeness is that you can still get a job in one of the family-owned companies in which about 850,000 Danes work. Nearliness is that we all have a family doctor close to where we live, who knows your medical history and your family. But it is not only the family doctor who is missing in our health care system. We in the previous government put forward a new health agreement which the current government has not yet followed up. But it may come, because that is what is needed. This is a need that has so far not been so much talked about. We have to set up our health system after we grow older and we become more runners in Denmark. And let us now sit together and discuss how we increase the proximity, but also the specialisation, how we ensure that our older runners can go to control in the close rather than in large super hospitals, how we ensure better coherence and prevention. And in this Chamber it is known to everyone, I believe, that the Conservative People's Party wants to dismantle the regions, because we would rather have a doctor than a regional council politician close to us when we get sick. But if there are internal conditions, there are conditions that make it possible for a majority here in Things to preserve the regions, and it seems that there is a problem, then it should not be a structural discussion that determines whether we can make a new agreement on a health service. Then we'll do it. Then we go to the negotiating table. This does not change our attitude towards the regions. If we can't get it through, then we're not sitting on the sidelines, because there's something we need to do in our health system. I think that is clear to everyone. Patients are simply too important to overlook. Fortunately, the vast majority of us are healthy and go to work. That is good, because it is the working people who make our society stick together. Some of the people who don't go to work are on cash benefits. Today, a single mother with two children on cash benefits has a total income of about DKK 18,300. After baby. For that, there is free space in day care, but now more money is needed, one has to understand. The Social Democrats, with their support parties, have decided to give DKK 1,850. extra monthly for several unemployed foreigners and cash benefits recipients. I think it should pay to go to work, including financially. I do not think that policy is right towards ordinary workers who work hard, sweat, pay their taxes and contribute to society. The government and several support parties claim to be parties for workers. Then I am very surprised that you will not be fighting for all those who get up in the morning and go to work. Yes, the government has taken over a nice country. There's still a lot that can get better. With the Conservative People's Party in opposition, you can expect us to quit when necessary and cooperate when it is beneficial. If it turns out that the government will cooperate with us and listen to us, then there will be a little less wrong in Denmark, as John Mogensen sang. A good start would be that the government showed a little more respect for business and family-owned companies such as the many farmers like Voss, as Jysk, as Ecco, and I almost want to say Dybbøl Mølle • it was actually once a family-owned company. Well, it isn't anymore. But, dear government, instead of singing as John Mogensen sings as Sebastian: Maybe we could find something to use each other for. ▪ Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170120	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will start with the series of questions. The first to speak is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170127	Thank you. Four years ago, Conservatives were included in a financial law agreement that halved EUDP funds for energy technology research. Fortunately, that course has been corrected a little along the way. But if we do, among other things... Asks Danish business, we are not at all in the goal of strengthening green research in Denmark. Danish Industry points out among other things: At their large green level, there is a need for much more investment in green research if we are to reach 70%, and that more funding for green research is also a prerequisite for supporting new jobs and increased exports. So my question is whether the rapporteur agrees that there is a need for a significant increase in green research.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170213	Thank you. I think that is quite natural or absolutely inevitable, and we must do so, because it is clear that some of the solutions we have to make must also come from research. For everyone, almost everyone, right now says 70%, but nobody knows the way there, at least not fully. And I think that's a confession case for all of us. And that is why, of course, a special and increased focus on research is needed. I thought it was an amazing report that Danish Industry made, not that I then adopt it one by one, but it was a very good and positive recording in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170249	Thank you. That sounds really good. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether Conservatives can support the government's proposal to earmark 1 billion. kr. more for green research.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170301	Well, that sounds really good. Surely we can support that. I don't think we're gonna be making finance with the government now, I guess. After all, one billion here and one billion there must be financed and prioritised, and I have a feeling that the support parties that are going to help the government through this financial law will not have many proposals in common with the Conservative People's Party in all respects. But that should not mean, of course, that I do not want to praise. This is certainly a good initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170332	The next question is Mrs Britt Baker, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170335	Thank you. And thank you for a very nice speech where Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen comes around both the challenges of the police, the challenges of getting a more green Denmark, and also the challenges of the social democratic government now setting up taxes and taxes. In the Left we share the goal of 70% reduction. We are concerned about the goal, but we are even more concerned about the means, that is, how we get there. We are concerned that we are not just moving the problem abroad, but that we are really reducing it. And that's why I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen: How does Conservatives view this? What tools do you see we need to reduce it instead of just moving the problem abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170426	Thank you for the question. Yes, some of that I hope we will sit in a negotiating room and find out, but I think it is quite clear when we, for example, are sitting in a negotiating room. We are talking about transport, that we have to move transport onto other forms of energy. This is one of the things that needs to be done to reduce CO2 more research needs to be done. And then we really have to make sure that the measures we are taking do not mean that companies are moving out of Denmark. I mean, what we're doing must have a global effect. And I very much hope that will be part of what we agree on in a new climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170502	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170504	At least this is something that the Left and Conservatives can agree on, because we are very concerned that with this goal we do not push one of the most climate-efficient farms, namely the Danish, abroad and at the same time also push good Danish production companies abroad. Another thing that we are deeply concerned about and concerned about is the hump that has been built up among the prosecutors. They're stressed, they can't reach their work, and they can't reach the cases they get on the desk. And now it's an area like Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has a great deal of knowledge about, I hope, and so I would like to hear: what is the Conservatives' proposal that we bring those tasks down to a perfectly reasonable level again?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170549	Thank you. I am deeply concerned that we can read articles, that the accusations say they cannot prepare their cases. The fact that there is no time to prepare may mean that there are some guilty people who go free. We also see it in the situation around Kærshovedgård, where, because we have tightened very well, they are being extra pressured. I regret that we have to wait a year to negotiate a multi-year agreement, because some of the work I had started before the elections was precisely that we should strengthen the prosecution. Now it may be that the current Minister of Justice continues to do so, I do not know for good reasons, but it has been set in motion. We have strengthened the police, but if you do not also strengthen the prosecution, there will be a hunch of cases that you do not get done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170626	The next question in the line is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170630	I noticed that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, on his national council, quoted Thomas Helmig's song that there will probably be a day when reason returns. That day could be today. That's up to us. I know that it was the Danish People's Party that rolled out the nail mat and prevented the government car from moving on with the project to give companies the opportunity to get more foreign labour to Denmark and I still think we agree on that. What I would like to ask is the other thing that companies find difficult to understand, namely that they cannot keep the refugees they may have hired, even if they actually contribute and pay taxes. 'Cause I think sir... Søren Pape Poulsen said in his speech here today that the best thing now is for people to support themselves. Therefore, just one question: could one not combine the things and say that more skilled skilled people need to go to Denmark, which the companies recruit, and then something about throwing out the good employees who really do the best people can, namely support themselves and pay their taxes and contribute to our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170739	I hope that this is the case, most of the time at least, with me and my party. I would also like to say that it can seem incredibly hard. And I understand that people are asking: why do they, when they are well integrated and do their job, have to go home? Well, they're fugitives. And if we are to get the Danes to support us in helping people who need help, then I think it is very important that we stick to the fact that those who are strong, who have been given a job, should return home when the day comes and help build up their own country. I understand the companies want to keep them, but where are we if we open a door and say that when you get here as a fugitive, you can stay here if you get a job? It is by the back way and a way to stay in Denmark. I understand that companies are dissatisfied, but I think we have a little more consideration to take. I am afraid that if it becomes a shortcut to stay here, we will completely lose popular support. You have to go home and build up your homeland when there's a time of peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170846	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170847	So conservative sense or logic is that a company should rather bring an employee here from abroad with work as the sole purpose than to hire a refugee for that job while he is here. Then we shall probably have to support the refugee who does not have a job. Anyway, instead of hiring someone who's here in that job, you'd better get someone abroad. For the company can only be sure to keep it if it is someone you have brought here from abroad. In addition to being such a reverse in the general sense of logic, it is probably also very difficult for companies to see that it should be safeguarding their interests by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003170929	But now we have to look after all of Denmark's interests, and that is where I think it is also about ensuring that we have an understanding to help those who need help. We propose to lower the amount for when you can get to Denmark and work • we suggest that it should decrease to 325.000 DKK. You come here and you work. On the day you lose your job, you no longer have a residence in Denmark, and then you go home. There's plenty of jobs where you don't get that amount. There are plenty of unskilled workers, there are plenty of work in hotels and other places, which, despite the fact that we have many outside the labour market in Denmark, cannot, for some reason, be filled. And it will still be relevant to hire, for example. refugees there. But Mr. Is it not Morten Østergaard that you have to go home and build up your homeland when there is peace in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171014	Next in line, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171019	Thank you for that, and thank you for the introduction in Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's talk about waking up from our nap. I thought, as he is very singing, which was expressed both on the National Council and also here, that he would come into Denmark's land for the Danish people, because there is a place in the song where it says: "But the country is threatened, some people give the fan in our old culture. It is time that Holger at Kronborg again likes as before wakes up from his nap. I just thought that was so elegant in relation to dinner naps and so on, and so on, because we have a government that may not be the same as the previous government is concerned about culture and what we actually come from. I remember that in the government basis under which Søren Pape Poulsen was a minister, it said that Denmark is a Christian country. Somewhere I thought it was so nice there and it was confirmation that we recognise where we come from and what it is that has shaped this country, and also that the Christian cultural heritage that we carry on actually has an impact on how we are as a country. In any case, it may be a little worrying that the new government has not, in the paper of understanding that has been prepared, made any reflections of the same nature. I don't know if sir. Søren Pape Poulsen may agree with me that there is at least something here that we need to keep an eye on together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171133	Thank you for the question. It is often the kind of discussion we have too few of and which we forget to have. Because sometimes we forget to talk about what we are really created and rounded up by what deep roots make us build a society that we have. It stated in the previous government basis that Denmark is a Christian country, and it was important for the Conservative People's Party that it was in the foundation. It is not because all the people must then be Christians, because of course one must do so because we have freedom of religion, but the Christian values are on which we have based our society deeply. It is also about the fact that everything isn't as good as everything is, no matter what culture you come with and how you live it out, and that is why I think it is extremely important to make sure that the Christian values, that is, the rooted foundation that Christianity is in Denmark, are also part of the daily work. There you can look with excitement at whether the foundation will be as strong in the years to come, because I could doubt that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171235	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171236	For us too, for example, when the Prime Minister... talk about being a trust-based society, something to do with the fact that we actually feel that we are close to each other and that we have a great and strong cohesion, and there we may at least worry in the Danish People's Party that we have more and more areas in Denmark, where for example. Our church is in a minority. It is true that we have a constitution that requires freedom of religion, so we should not decide what people should believe in, but it is clear that it is another society that we are going to meet if something as unifying as our church of the people starts to have less and less support in large parts of our country, in other words, especially in our cities, and that means that the Christian cultural heritage is not really being carried on together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171322	We are actually looking at it with concern in some places, also because many people opt it out, because one might be as good as the other, or because it doesn't say anything. But maybe this can make us wake up and have some discussions about what kind of values society is built on. I think it is absolutely essential that we stick to the fact that the way our society is built, what we are rounded up with, has a background in a Christian culture. This does not mean that there is no room for people who have a different culture. I usually say that we need democratic assimilation and cultural integration. I think that makes good sense, and here we should also have respect for the fact that it is the Christian who is the foundation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171406	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Astrid Carøe of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171412	Thank you. Under the previous government, Conservatives helped to remove the maternity fund for self-employed people, and this has had quite major consequences and caused great uncertainty for the self-employed in Denmark who do not know if they can go on maternity leave now. And the absence of maternity leave is one of the obstacles to women in particular starting their own business. Only 8%. Today, young women are under 35. This is a rather low figure, which is probably linked to the fact that it is difficult to reconcile entrepreneurship and family life. As far as I understand, Conservatives are quite interested in having time for the family and that the children are getting a good start to life, and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's party colleague, former Minister for Industry, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, has also said that as a minister he would be the small business minister. That is why I would like to ask Conservatives whether they will not seize this opportunity, because the SF has now proposed a new maternity fund for self-employed workers. Will they help to meet the desire of small businesses to set up a new maternity fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171518	I shall start by confessing that I am not fully aware of the proposal that the SF has made. I must also be honest and say that we have a discussion for the benefit of the Conservative Group on this, because I agree that this is a challenge. I therefore agree that, if we want entrepreneurs to get started, we need to look at how we can somehow help them so that we have more entrepreneurs, including women. At the risk of being accused of all sorts of things, however, it is still the case that everything else is equal to women who have the longest part of the barshell, and it is therefore also those who are most affected. So this is a discussion we have for the benefit of, and there actually came the other day one of my group members and put a piece of paper in front of me and said: we have just to discuss this. And we will.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171609	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171611	I think that is extremely positive to hear, and I hope that we will continue to do so. It is, of course, a pity that the last four years have not been used as an influential support party and government party to improve these things, but I am happy to know and hope that Conservatives will also support the fact that we can recreate this maternity fund, so that young women in particular also have the opportunity to go on maternity leave and not have to settle for cash benefits if they want to have children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171637	Yes, and where we end up, we have to see, but at least we are constructively involved. It is the case that when you sit in government, there are many things you can then be blamed for doing so, I think you can say to everyone who has been in government. There are plenty of things that are given priority, and we have not done more about this, but we will have to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171658	The next question is Mrs Mai Villadsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171702	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. After all, the Conservatives held national councils this weekend, and in this connection the rapporteur invited the Prime Minister to dance with the justification that then the Prime Minister could avoid the extraordinary demands of the Enhedslisten. At the same time, the rapporteur said that the Conservatives would like to be in favour of a 70% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, so I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for agreeing to one of our extraordinary demands. Well, now for the a little more serious, because the rapporteur has also said that the climate agreement must not cost growth, and that is why I would like to ask: does the rapporteur really seriously believe that if the profits for large companies fall or if growth falls by just a small fraction, then the Conservatives will not support climate action?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171804	First of all, I should like to say that I should not have used the word 'unique'; I just think I should have said that there are many demands that I strongly disagree with. I do not think it is a secret that the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party do not share so many opinions when it comes to the matter. Having said that, I believe in positive thinking when it comes to the green transition and CO2 I believe that this can give rise to growth. Let us all try to imagine what it can mean if Danish companies succeed in developing, refining, making products better, so that a market that we cannot even imagine is created in the world. Then there will be more growth, and that growth is a prerequisite for everything I at least know that Enhedslisten would like in the public sector. I mean, without it, we're just gonna get poorer and poorer, and then it's gonna stop one day. I want to create growth and I believe that the green transition can be the way to growth. I see no contradiction between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171903	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171905	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur was a Minister of Justice quite recently and thought that people should feel the consequences of their harmful actions. Would you also like to transfer such a principle to the climate area, so that those who do the most damage or pollute are, in fact, also the ones who have to pay the most for the green conversion? Could the rapporteur imagine such an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003171932	It is always a healthy and good principle that the polluter pays. We also have to get it into context, so that we do not do anything and say: it was nice, now we have made legislation that means that there is some pollution that is not in Denmark, but then is in Poland. I am quite sure that we agree that it makes no sense globally. And that is why we have to find a way where Danish companies still want to operate in Denmark and not move somewhere where the requirements are lower. So I think it's a balance. And we have to be very, very careful because this is worth nothing if companies just move abroad and then pollute more there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172009	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172013	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for your speech. Now I know that the Conservative People's Party is very concerned about the rich wildlife and nature conservation, so my question is this: could it be imagined that the Conservative People's Party, together with the alternative and hopefully several other parties, could go into the Danish state forests and convert them into more wild, untouched nature? It's actually the case now that there's only 1%. of the Danish state forests, which are wild nature, so if we had it changed, we would be able to promote biodiversity. If we were not to carry out forestry activities, this would mean that private forest owners would be allowed to carry out forestry activities without being in competition with the State. So we could promote biodiversity, wild nature and private forestry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172108	I mean, it's a balance. After all, we have said that we want more untouched forests, and we are happy to join in a discussion about how to get more nature in our country. I am happy to enter into the discussion that Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned earlier on the day when she asked a question to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about this nature plan, which should have been presented after 100 days when the new government arrived. That's two days from now, and I've been told it's not just coming. We'd like to discuss that. Well, we have seen such an attitude that we have a good nature, a nature in which we take good care of the wildlife we have and where species do not disappear. In my world, sometimes this becomes a little too political. And understand me correctly when I say that, because it's not really about whether you're blue or red or yellow or green. Whether you are, we basically want us to have a good and proper nature in Denmark, and we want to help develop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172207	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172208	Thank you for your answer. It was very positive and nice. This means, of course, that we will soon be able to cooperate here in order to convert the 107 000 hectares of forest that the state has, and perhaps we can even expand it by the last 97 000 hectares that are used for forestry. I look forward to it. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172233	I have to say that although the questioner is a completely new member of parliament, I think it was a very smart and smart way to get me involved in something I did not say at all. But we would really like to discuss forward-looking how we create more nature and wild nature in Denmark. But to take me as an income for a whole new attitude towards the state forest apparatus is probably going too far. But it was a good try. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172303	The next question in the line is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172309	I'll try to involve Mr. Simpson. Søren Pape Poulsen in something that he then has Søren Pape Poulsen repeatedly says that things are going well. But it does not do so in all areas. When we look at the number of rapes, it is increasing, and it has also been strong during the last government with Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen as Minister of Justice. So there are women in Denmark who today have to live with the fact that they can meet foreign rapists again on the street. They must live with the fear that they may return and continue their atrocities. I find that incredibly difficult to accept as a citizen, and I find it incredibly difficult to accept as a man, and I find it particularly incredibly difficult to accept as a father of two girls. I cannot understand why others do not feel the same way, because if you felt the same way, you would put the rights of these women, their security, their security in front of some technical clauses of some conventions that we ourselves have decided. So my question to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is: Will one be willing to put the rights and security of these women in front of the rights of some foreign criminal rapists and ensure that we incorporate into Danish law that in this specific area we put Danish legislation on European conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172430	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172432	After all, we believe that a country like Denmark is most strongly aware that we are actually complying with international conventions, but that does not mean that we should just sit back and say: well, then it has to be as it is. I hope there are none of us, whether you are a Dane or a foreigner, or whoever you are, or whether you are a man or a woman, who will accept that people behave in that way. That is also why we tightened the penalties for rape. And I also feel that if you are not a Danish citizen and commit that crime and get a expulsion sentence, then of course you have to get out of Denmark. There we can then get into some other challenges in some places. But I'm glad we're going to talk about this, because some of what I started was exactly looking at a new rape clause. And I have to say that there are women in this country where you can ask if they really are properly protected. Some call it consent, you might also call it voluntary. I see that on the legislative programme, which I look forward to. And I would like to welcome the fact that New Citizens will also participate constructively in the debate on the need for a new law on rape, because I believe we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172537	With all due respect, I find it difficult to accept that we should wait until all countries eventually have the idea of changing these conventions. I don't think we can offer those women who are raped. I do not think we can offer that to those women who feel threatened and whose safety is threatened by this. That is where we must take the lead in the fight. And we are willing to do so in New Citizens, and that is what we ask the Conservatives: Are they also willing to take the lead in the fight? And if we are to take the fight with an activist court in Strasbourg, we will take it. Are you Conservatives willing to take it with the New Citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172611	We are always willing to push the lemon as much as we possibly can within the conventions. We also saw this with the Copenhagen Declaration, which actually created some differences. But it is once the case that it is people who are committing these rapes, and we must hold each individual person accountable for his misdeeds. We have to punish them hard, and they're going to jail. Whether we should throw them out of Denmark if they are not Danish citizens and we can at all? Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172642	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172644	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, together as the main parties, have fought the cause of the homeowners. We have done so in negotiations on housing tax, and we have done so in repeated negotiations on finance laws. Now there is a chance that we can do it together again. In fact, the government has agreed with the municipalities that they have to increase the levying of the land by almost 6%, and this includes, among other things, the payment of the land debt. to go beyond citizens in good conservative municipalities, namely municipalities such as Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and Frederiksberg, where many vote conservatively and where there are therefore conservative mayors. There the property owners in an average house will experience land tax increases of between 2.200 DKK. and 3,000 kroner. a year as a result of the agreement made by the government with the municipalities. That is why the Liberal Alliance voted against the agreement as there was an act on it in the Parliament's Finance Committee. And we are disappointed that the Conservatives did not do the same. Have you Conservatives abandoned the fight against the looting of property owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172751	No, we certainly haven't, because it was actually because of us that at the time I think it was in 2015 that a deal was made. I think it was the Prime Minister of that time, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who made an agreement with at least the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party and the Radicals were also involved, I can see that when you had made an agreement between the government and the KL, you accepted it in the Folketing and voted it through. We then voted against, precisely because we could raise the ground debt. We haven't agreed to it all of a sudden. We still think it is extremely wrong to propose a completely new housing tax system. If we could decide, we would not have to pay housing tax at all, but we would have to pay tax on the profit you received when you sold your house. So a meeting of the Finance Committee that we could not be present at does not mean that I can reassure you that we are no longer going to fight the cause of homeowners. I think we should do that together. I think there'll be plenty of need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172846	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172848	Now I understand that it is because the Conservatives could not be present at the sitting. I mean, you have to do your job, especially when it comes to one of the party's priorities. You can simply send a message to the committee that you are voting against the act if you are against it. It is no excuse, then, that one could not be present when one of the party's most important issues is on the agenda. When the property owners in Gentofte, Lyngby-Taarbæk and at Frederiksberg experience a rise in the basic debt of between 2.200 and 3.000 DKK. Next year, with conservative support, is it because one could not be present at a meeting? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003172926	But that's nonsense. We are totally opposed to increases in the ground debt. It's an agreement that the municipalities have made with the government that now has this consequence. Surely we have not supported it at any time and we will not support it either. Well, I don't understand that rhetoric. I think we should be very careful to start shooting at each other, in relation to what reports have been given, and whether people have been to a meeting, etc. That's not what this is about. So, is there anyone in this floor who is in doubt as to whether the Conservative People's Party is opposed to increases in the ground blame? We have proposed abolishing all housing tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173001	Thank you to the rapporteur. A small service information: There are approx. A quarter back on the number of questions put to the rapporteur here, and I would recommend that we call for a midday break so that the next rapporteur can come on after we have had a meal break, i.e. at 8 a.m. 7:00 p.m. So there is an extra 15 minutes for the evening break unless the rapporteur wants an extra 15 minutes on the platform? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's 15 minutes left, and the next question in the line is mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173035	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Pape Poulsen for an optimistic and even a little poetic approach. I'll try to get back to that. After all, we welcome the fact that the government has played out with an ambitious green initiative, which has received good support virtually throughout the Folketing. We have also attached ourselves to the fact that at some point the Conservative People's Party stepped on the brakes of the then government, when the government wanted to play out a green initiative that was not ambitious enough in terms of ambitious objectives for nature and, above all, initiatives that benefit biodiversity, for example. in relation to untouched forest and several coherent natural areas. Well, then, the good question is now to Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen, whose party wants to be bourgeois voices working: Is the Conservative People's Party prepared to conclude an agreement on our exciting nature, untouched nature and better biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173141	Yes, I can guarantee that we are the starting point. That depends, of course, on what the content will be, but of course we are. That is also why, earlier this day, we heard Mrs Mette Abildgaard ask a question about the plan for our nature that has been put forward after the first 100 days, and we would actually like to discuss it soon. Well, if we're invited, I guarantee we'll show up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173203	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173204	I certainly have an expectation that the Conservatives will be invited to join, because this is often about us having sensible discussions in the committees and so on, and there is a good opportunity to be there. When I ask a little about it, it is because, in connection with the Nature and Agriculture Commission, which did an excellent job in the period 2011-2014, we saw that the fine Commission report ended up in the drawer. It would otherwise have been a good tool for creating more untouched nature. Are you prepared to take it out of the drawer again and share in discussing it constructively, as with bourgeois voices working, so that we can sing in the deep quiet of the forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173249	It's okay for it to be included. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173252	It is also at the risk of not being able to quote from the report prepared 2011-2014, I think we should discuss it without prejudice. There are many outside the Folketing who actually show us the way, if we can also stand together and find the money for it. One is encouraged when agriculture and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association ask whether we should try to get low-level soil out, and how we can exchange some land, so that we can add something to more nature, that is to say get more nature by common sense, in which both agriculture and the people of nature can see the idea. So we'd be happy to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173333	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173337	Like sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, I have also noticed that the government has come up with a proposal to raise the housing and gift tax, i.e. the generational tax on family-owned businesses. And in this regard, I would like to ask Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen: What do the Conservatives think about the approach that has come from Simon Kollerup after all, that it is possible to pay off over a long period of time? Mr. Soren Pape Poulsen that it is a solution that helps companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173409	At least I'm very worried. Because that doesn't change the fact that it has to be paid. And sometimes, when I listen to this debate, I have the sincere impression that there are some people who are walking around thinking that this generational change is about the fact that if you don't take a big share of the state, there are some people who put a lot of money into their own pockets. I mean, this is all about • and we're agreed that the company should continue today and have to turn the machines back on tomorrow. The difference is, tomorrow it's the son who owns it, today it's the danger. Why is it that you can't do it without the state having to have 15%?? I simply do not understand that. If you took it out to yourself, I could understand. Well, then there's a tax that's harsh. But this is after all to attack Danish jobs, where Dad and Mom have been sitting at the table and perhaps talking about taking a loan in the house: Should we invest, put everything we own and have lost track of getting a company? And when it's going to move on in the next generation, then the state must have a share in it. I think it's so wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173518	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173519	May I ask: what do the Conservatives think, then, might be the consequence of raising the housing and gift tax? I know, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen has many connections throughout the country, and it may be that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has heard something about what the different people are saying around the country about what the consequences will be. Is it something like that, sir? Søren Pape Poulsen heard about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173540	I get around Denmark a lot, and I talk to a lot of companies. And they're very worried about this. For we forget that a great many of those who are affected are also very small companies, people who may say: we simply cannot afford to change the generation; then we must sell the company. Then it may be that the company ends up abroad. And what have we got out of it? Yes, a lot of Danish jobs that are then lost. Well, it really hurts this. In other words, many people are going to lose their generation at the moment because they know what is waiting for them. And I simply think that Denmark is built on small and medium-sized enterprises, on family-owned enterprises. Why don't we just keep the cuts off them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173620	Next in the line of questioning is sir. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173625	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for a good and constructive conservative contribution which points in a number of areas in a positive direction. I have spent part of the day looking for the Conservative People's Party's position on the recovery of tax administration, for example. on your website. I'm afraid I haven't found anything. In our draft budget, we set aside 1.5 billion. kr. to restore tax administration, and then my question will be: do you Conservatives support this proposal, which helps to ensure fair taxation, so that everyone pays the right tax and can expect everyone else to do the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173705	At any rate, I agree that the prerequisite for a well-being society that is linked is also that we have a tax collection that works. For it is, in fact, crucially important that people can have confidence that this is happening. It is also true that on our website we do not have a policy of recovery of tax administration, and one and the other and the third. We have such more general policies, and we sometimes make such political proposals. But I do feel that I actually believe that we did a great deal in the previous government. We set aside a lot of money for more new centres. And I actually feel like I can't judge if that's what it takes. I mean, the new centre: if that's what it takes, then of course it's a challenge you have. There's some money that can be bad to find, but then you have to do it. We have to discuss this in a context. Well, I don't think I'm gonna have to make a financial bill with this government. Because if it cannot make the first Finance Act with its parliamentary basis, I think it will have to resign. And I'd like to cooperate with the government. But I'm not so anxious to keep it in place that I'm going to help them through the first Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173811	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173812	I am, of course, pleased that we agree on the premise that tax administration must be restored, which is, of course, an essential condition for trusting in a well-functioning tax administration, which can help to ensure that the foundations of our welfare society are stable. And then I just want to ask you again whether it could not be made a little clearer by the general orientation that the Danes are allowed to get from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173839-2	Of course you could say that. But I also think that what we are trying to say is that we would like to have a more simple tax system, because then it could also be that there would not be so many employees to manage it. In other words, we have proposed simply to make it simpler. Because it should be the case that every citizen and every person in this country can understand his tax ticket. No matter where we stand politically, we all probably share that wish. And if we could simplify the tax system somewhat more, it could also be that a little less money would have to be spent on bureaucratic matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173910	The next question is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003173915	Thank you. I took note of the fact that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has great expectations of my party leader, sir. Morten Østergaard, and I can tell you that the expectations are reciprocated. For example: After all, I noted that shortly after the elections, the Conservatives said that they were ready to improve the conditions of the children in Soulsmark. After all, the reality in Soulsmark is that 60%. of children meet the criteria for a psychic diagnosis. 50% of the 11-17-year-olds have symptoms of ptsd. Growing up for children in Denmark is absolutely unacceptable, and we Radicals, on behalf of the children, are extremely impatient to get something done. And it is wonderful that bourgeois humanism is also on its way back. So maybe we could/maybe we could/find something to use each other for. Could it, for example? be to go together to improve the conditions of the children in Soulsmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174017	Thank you for the question. Well, that depends on what we're supposed to do. I mean, some of this debate is also jumping out of this potato case: could you get a potato at all, and where could you eat it? That's where we went and said, well, let's talk about it. In other words, a strict and consistent Danish policy on foreigners does not go along with whether or not to eat a potato and where to eat it, as it seems in our world, to be quite honest. But if you go all the way back to the 2015 election campaign, I said already then that it was up to us, I actually think you should close Soulsmark and find a location somewhere else, too, because we think it is very concentrated to have two centres, Soulsmark and Sandholm, so close to each other. But the other part of it is • and I have to say that, and I know it sounds harsh • that it is also some parents who hold their children hostage, because the parents just don't want to go home. It is people who are not entitled to asylum in Denmark. They should leave here, because we told them to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174115	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174116	Thank you. If we were to play, I accepted the premise that it is the parents who hold their children hostage, then we do it to children in Denmark that we care for the child's best interests. And we do, of course, whether parents are abusers of alcohol or have mental difficulties. Then we always take care of the child's best interests. Is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen did not agree that we should take care of the child's best interests and that this is not just about a potato, but about the mental state of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174151	Of course, it should be taken seriously and care for the child's best interests. Well, I guess there is no human being in this thing who doesn't think we should treat children properly. But the challenge is also, of course, that those who should first and foremost treat children properly are their parents. They should start treating their children properly, and they should do so by following the instructions given to them by the country in which they live right now. Then it is clear that we must, of course, look at whether there is reason for some changes to be made to the children. But the parents can't just push them in front of them and then say that everything's gonna be okay. So there's something here that's really hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174228	The next question is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174233	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a fine opening speech. It is the case that not long ago the government concluded a municipality agreement with the National Association of Municipalities. After all, it is not a municipal agreement that lets the gold flow in the streets, but it is, after all, a municipal agreement that actually looks better than it has in the last 11 years. It also provides a service boost of 1.7 billion. kr. I therefore have a question for the Chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen: Why did the Conservatives on the KL's Board of Directors choose to vote against this agreement, despite the fact that overall it offers a service boost of 1.7 billion. kr. to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174326	Now we do not have the law of the great leader in the Conservative People's Party, which means that I sit and dictate what to think in the municipalities and regions. It determines the members of the municipal council and the representatives elected by trust. As I understand it, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, Michael Ziegler chose to abstain, and it was firstly in disappointment that all the promises made in the election campaign were not carried out, and secondly because it could be seen that there were some challenges, particularly in the specialized field, that were not honoured at all. After all, they have not been honoured, because some of it is also about the need for some legislation here in the Folketing, so that we do not so rigidly control exactly what to do. And if what the Prime Minister said on Tuesday comes to power, namely that we do not have to regulate down to the smallest detail, it will also give the municipalities quite different opportunities to prioritise and adopt a level of service instead of spending a lot of money, because there is no room at all for discussing what is sensible here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174433	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174437	Thank you for a very nice answer. After all, I could share some of the views that you then say that the Conservative representative has in relation to the specialized social area. In fact, this leads a little to say that if it were the Conservatives who sat in the Ministry of Finance and sat with the government, the Conservative People's Party would then be willing to give priority to the c. 3 billion kr., as Michael Ziegler said was necessary in order to keep up with the pressure of expenditure and the increase in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174518	I would be happy to accept the Finance Minister's position if it is an invitation; we can, of course, put that to the test. Well, I have a different approach to it. Now I have also been a mayor and a member of the council for a few years, and I would actually like us to have much more framework legislation, so that municipalities were allowed to set much more service levels. Because I simply do not share this view that we simply need to spend more and more money without discussing how that money is to be spent and without discussing what is right and fair. In fact, I would like to be able to give something more freedom. When we make municipal freedom agreements, they are not called, but I have forgotten what they are called "where we arrange some test arrangements and experimental schemes in the municipalities," we sometimes see that you find some really good solutions. The problem is that we are not always so good in here to turn the good solutions into legislation, because then it would be good everywhere if it works where you have free municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174613	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last one is Mrs. Julie Skovsby from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174619	Thank you. I'm glad. We'll have time to talk about welfare. In the election campaign, the Left had a welfare promise to the Danes, where they would allow the economy to keep up with the costs of increasing children and older people up to 2025, and then the rapporteur very clearly stated that the welfare promises of the Left are not being fulfilled with the conservative mandates. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur tell Parliament, reaffirming that the Conservatives are also today opposed to the welfare vows of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174703	Yeah, if that promise with the 69 billion. kr. I can tell you that this is not our policy. I fully respect the fact that if the Left has that view, then it is their policy; I fully respect that. I even think I said at the time that I am not making a welfare promise of 69 billion. kr. I would like to make a tax promise, a promise that means that the Danes who go to work every day must be allowed to keep something more for themselves. For there is room both for tax relief and for some welfare. I do not subscribe to the view that we should just look at the demographic challenge and then project it one to one. I think there are many mayors who have tried to sit at home in their municipality and had to make budgets where you have not just been able to say that so and so many more older people you produce 1:1 with economy. Because if you just do it blindly without demanding any efficiency and innovation at all, then it is hopeless to look into the challenge we face. Then we'll spend as much money as we don't have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174803	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174804	Thank you. I understand the answer: is the situation in the parliamentary year in which we are now entering so that the Conservative People's Party disagrees with the Left Party about the welfare promise? Is there a conflict? Is there a disagreement here? Is that how the Conservatives view this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174834	Yes, immediately completely. I find it hard to see that this is a conflict. I guess we all have a policy, and we are now ten parties in here, and I guess there's a difference between us. That's why we're in ten different parties, I guess, and it won't stop me from making a lot of deals if I can get along with it, and if it makes sense on the bottom line of the Conservative People's Party. We just don't see how much more expensive the public sector needs to be, and I guess that's okay. Nor do I believe that all the government's support parties see it exactly the same way the government sees it, just as V and K do not see everything the same. But I guarantee that if we get the chance, we'll figure out how to make a government again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003174917	That is how the Conservative rapporteur spoke. Thank you. We're gonna reschedule the meeting now and call for a dinner break. The meeting starts again at 1 p.m. There will be the alternative rapporteur on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003190006	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003190011	Today there are further reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Jeppe Kofoed): Motion for a resolution No. B 6 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali, MINUSMA) and motion for a resolution No. B 7 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to Operation Barkhane). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191003190034	Then we will continue the debate, and this is now Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003190036	The greatest no-brainer in the history of the world. This is what Nikolaj Coster-Waldau said in the video that the government launched prior to the UN Summit in New York. It was a fine little climate campaign with some small animation films and otherwise a very simple setup, a man, a chair and a message that it is now that must be acted on if the climate crisis is not to end up as a permanent climate disaster. Sometimes you don't have to oversell the message when it's strong enough, and it was, because it's common sense, a no-brainer, and it should always be that way when we talk about the climate. For it is about common sense, logical choices and opt-outs, and about listening to science, scientists, the smart ones, those who require long-term solutions instead of patch solutions, and those who say it's not just about doing something, but about doing enough. Does that mean it's gonna be easy? No, because the barriers to the green transition are not scientific, but political, and in reality it is much worse. For example: There is no doubt that the climate crisis calls for an end to the economic model we have today, because we cannot have unlimited growth on a planet where resources are limited. It is obvious that this is not a popular political position, rather, on the contrary, because here we are talking about a model that has given us growth and prosperity and helped lift the middle class, but it does not change that it is also a model that has led to massive overuse of the planet's scarce resources and that has thrown the globe into a global climate crisis. So if we now have a government that, as the Prime Minister said on Tuesday, wants both to strengthen the green transition, to safeguard welfare and to reduce inequality, then it also needs to put an end to the economic model and governance that prevails today. Of course, it involves new arithmetic models, but it involves much more than that. This requires a fundamental fight with a model based on the ideal of the competitive state, where growth and prosperity are all too often created at the expense of people and the environment, and where people are primarily something by virtue of the value they create and where society's systems are increasingly geared towards supporting the economy rather than supporting the people it was initially intended for. Now Denmark has got a new government, and with it we can perhaps look forward to a new time, a new time when people are no longer pressured to hurry more, work more and retire later just to increase growth, and where as a society we are better suited to the planet and all the lives, animals and plants with which we share it. Although animals and plants have a value to us, we must remember that they have a value in themselves first and foremost. Whether the government will, a new course, a new era we may see soon enough. The negotiations on the Finance Act and the Climate Act are now and here, and there should be no doubt that the alternative has very high expectations, far greater than is immediately being proposed with the government's financial law proposal. I think the electorate also has that, because the election campaign left no doubt, the citizens will see green results, there are promises to be fulfilled and hopes to be translated into action, and of course we will be happy to help the government with that. We are ready with ideas and funding, and fortunately the timing is good, because Denmark is in the middle of a huge green momentum, the population is in, the business community is in, and more and more political parties are starting to join. This brings to mind how much has happened in just a few years, from the first time the Alternative proposed reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 70%, because there we stood almost alone, until today, when the situation is different. What was previously interpreted as utopia and dreaming is now the government's official policy, and in fact the whole of the Danish Parliament supports the 70-percent target today, and we would like to sign for that, and we welcome the fact that so many now want a more ambitious climate policy. At the same time, we do not think that any of us are as smart as we can all stay together, and we are therefore looking forward to having a great many of us solve the task of making an ambitious climate law. The Climate Act must ensure that Denmark makes an ambitious contribution to the Paris Agreement, which means at least that it must contain binding targets and milestones, strengthen the Climate Council and increase climate assistance. And here I believe that the government and the support parties are fully in line with the alternative, and perhaps also Conservatives. So it looks good, not least after SF and Radicals now also support the closure of the North Sea oil hunt. Hopefully we can use this announcement to jointly put pressure on the rest of the Folketing, and with a galloping climate crisis over us, a no to something as black as oil permits should therefore be a solid no-brainer. A stop for the eighth round of invitations to tender is no miracle cure, for the old permits still apply, and as long as they do, the black companies can continue their oil adventures • the adventure that has ended up being a genuine nightmare for the environment and for the climate. Therefore, Denmark needs a definite resolution plan. The time has come for us now to set a final date for closing down the taps on the 55 drilling platforms that stand out in the North Sea every day and work against the green transition. We owe it to the people, and we owe it to future generations. Unfortunately, the alternative and Enhedslisten are still all too much with that view, but with the development of recent months I actually believe in, yes, I also hope that there are more who join us, because no matter how you turn it or turn it, you cannot be green on black energy. Of course, the Climate Act is not the only thing that we will have to discuss in the future; there is also a financial law where, among other things, we are concerned. to find out how the green conversion is to be financed, and here it seems that there is in fact more agreement on objectives and resources than on funding. That is why, in the best alternative, I am going to make a proposal here today which could perhaps actually unite parties across the Folketing. The proposal is called green bonds, and it is very briefly about the state being able to raise a lot of billions by issuing green government bonds. This can be done at low interest rates, and thus the bond tank can be used to direct private funds into good green projects. In fact, it was precisely the case that a bourgeois government in the Netherlands recently obtained 45 billion. kr. for the green transition in 1 day. Among the investors were Danish PKA, and as the company's director said, one will not hesitate to strike if a similar opportunity arises in Denmark. All it takes is for it to be there. So why not give it to them? Frankly, it seems like a no-brainer. It should also be a no-brainer that the Finance Act should strengthen welfare. The Enhedslisten has among other things: proposed to strengthen psychiatry by 1 billion. We share that ambition, just as we share a common desire to give nature a historic boost through more untouched forest, better nature conservation and more protected sea areas. If I look at Radicals and the SF, I would like to make it clear that in the alternative we share the desire to strengthen culture, schools, education and the day institutions, because a new era must also be a new and better time for artists, for students, for children and for educators. It's only fair. Last but not least, it is also only fair that the Finance Act ensures a real increase in the social area and the vulnerable. Several nurses, better homelessness and a subsidy to dentists for the most vulnerable are a good start, but of course I also have to say that we are still very unappreciated about maintaining the ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits. This simply makes no sense in our world, and we hope that the government will soon come to its senses. This will show that Denmark has got a new government, a government that wants a new time, and that is what we want in the Alternative, namely to start a new time, the time of the climate, the time of the children they are exposed to, because it is for us a no-brainer. When we look at the challenges we face, it is important to remember that Denmark is not a desert island. We are part of a community, a European community, and we must dare to say this loud and clear, while at the same time insisting on renewing, changing and improving the European Union. This does not happen by joining us or standing in a corner with our arms crossed, because we must do everything we can to prevent us from seeing chaotic conditions, as we are doing right now with Boris Johnson's kamikaze brexit, anywhere else in our community. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the government once again on the election and the good start. We look forward to cooperation, and we actually hope that the many good intentions will come true if not for too long. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191105	Thank you. And we're gonna start the debate. First it is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191111	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the great climate commitment of the alternative. We in the Left very much agree that we should be a green pioneer country and that we should have an ambitious climate policy, but we are also very concerned that we have some genuine green solutions where a Danish climate target does not lead to us pushing greenhouse gas emissions out of the country. Therefore, I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it more important in isolation to achieve a Danish climate target than that we do not create increased emissions at global level?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191150	The climate crisis is a global challenge in which we must all face up to what we can. In Denmark we have a historic and morally very great responsibility. We are one of the people who per. Citizen emits alleralmost CO2 It means action. It also means action when we have a farm that imports tons of soy from South America it doesn't count on our CO2 so we can do a lot where we both do something to reduce emissions at home and abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191219	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191223	Does this mean that the alternative will say no to Danish climate reduction if the consequence is that there is increased emissions at global level?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191234	Well, I think this is a very artificial question, because it is about cutting greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark while at the same time helping to cut back on it elsewhere. For example, when we look at our agricultural production, a transition from a very animal-intensive agriculture to a more plant-based agriculture can actually do both things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191254	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191256	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for the speech. I want to ask you, and I am asking you, of real interest, how we do what we do with the environment and climate in practice. Now the alternative has joined the budget settlement in the City of Copenhagen, and part of the initiatives there are about how to make it harder to be a driver in Copenhagen and get more cars out of Copenhagen because the cars pollute. What I cannot find, on the other hand, about in the budget conciliation is the alternative's fight against cruise tourism. On average, there is a cruise ship that calls in the harbour of Copenhagen every day, i.e. in average one per day that pollutes what between 3,500 and 5,000 cars do. I know that the City of Copenhagen supports the desire for more cruise tourism in a budget, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist's party is now in. But then you try to push the drivers out of town because you think the drivers are polluting. So, is it just because cruise tourism doesn't count in the City of Copenhagen's CO2 is it because you are green or because you want to think green? Understood, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist the dilemma?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191406	I certainly understand the dilemma that I did not know I was in budget negotiations in the City of Copenhagen. I thought I was at the opening debate in the Folketing. In fact, we have proposed that an action plan be drawn up for inland shipping in Denmark, including ports and cruise ships, because we have to act on this. I have not read in detail the budgetary conciliation that has been concluded while we have been sitting here for opening debates, but the details I have seen are about how we can limit carism in cities where we have public transport. I think that is only sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191438	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191439	In fact, that is why I said that it is purely of interest to how to work with climate. Now, I go to a party representative who prides himself on being in the party that has almost been the leader of the whole thing. If you take the cruise ships that call at Danish ports, each of them pollutes as much as between 3,500 and 5,000 cars. And then it's just my idea that it's a form of tourism that the municipalities are trying to promote, including from the City of Copenhagen • The City of Copenhagen is governed by a socialist, left-wing majority • and then I just can't see how to reconcile it. Is it somewhere where you have to tell your fellow party members in Copenhagen that something really has to happen, that they have to do it differently from they are doing it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191529	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191534	As far as I know, it is now a Social Democratic mayor we have, and not a Socialist; I think, at least, that the Social Democrats will have been deprived of just being called socialists. I think it is important to understand how to do something in the municipalities and how we can do something in here in the Folketing. I actually think it's nice to hear that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is also concerned about how we do something about cruise ships in Denmark. That is why we really need to look at a national action plan for maritime transport, because we must also act in this area, even if it has nothing to do with our small national accounts of how they do it in one city or another here. No. This is actually something we need to do together, so let's get on with it in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191605	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191608	Yes, I would first like to sign up for an always positive speech by the Alternative and also hope that it can lead to close cooperation on many of the things we see the same. I think, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist came well around both of course the biggest and first the climate challenges, but also the culture, the children they exposed. That is why I have just one question about the approach to it. At one point I took note of the fact that the alternative liked to refer to itself as the mistress of the government, i.e. someone who appeared once in a while and disappeared again, or whatever it was, and I just think that if we really have to make a difference and perhaps especially for climate change, which has a slightly longer perspective, it might require a more firm relationship. And that is why it is really just a question of whether the alternative might have thought about just entering fully and fully and saying that one would like to take responsibility for being part of the overall majority that drives Denmark forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191709	Now, of course, we went to elections without pointing to either the bourgeois or the Socialist Prime Minister's candidate, and I think it is very natural that, after the elections, we still stand on the same lines and do not change them just because, as we say, we did not have a good choice. That is why we have made it clear to the Prime Minister that, from the start of negotiations with its parliamentary basis, we would like to be a constructive partner in relation to both the support parties and the government, and we will continue to be a very, very constructive partner, who also wants to come up with good solutions on how to solve the difficult things and thereby also lift a responsibility. It has been important for us to say on top of this choice: it wasn't as we would have liked to have seen it, but it doesn't mean that we would just sit in the corner and be angry, no. Then we come and say: we actually have good ideas to solve a lot of the things that need to be resolved now, and that is also the cooperation that I am looking forward to with the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191808	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191809	Yes, but at least from this point of view a clear signal that we are more in terms of firm relationships than in terms of volatile relationships, and that we therefore also hope that we can find ways of involving the alternative as much as possible. That would certainly be our view. Then there is a specific question about one of the ways in which we can solve both air pollution problems, congestion problems and, of course, climate problems, and one solution could be to get people to serve themselves more of the public traffic. That is why I have just one question which I am really curious about getting an answer to: is it correct to understand that the alternative is against the metro? I have just seen that there are representatives of the Alternative who have said that it was not a party day, when this weekend the metro might be opened up some of the most successful form of public transport in one of the places where the hardship is greatest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191852	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191853	Well, I really like the subway myself, and I can take it almost outside my street door and get right into work here. What was pointed out by our representatives in Copenhagen, and which I think is very, very important when we talk metro, is first and foremost the funding, that is, how it has been chosen to be financed in a way, so you had to build every little stamp in Copenhagen with houses instead of having green breath holes. Amager Common is one of the areas. No, it's not green to fund it that way. I would also like to say that when you only make a metro, but do not get started, for example. Road pricing in Copenhagen, which would be a great solution along with the metro, is not left as the green circle it could be. So in itself that is what our Copenhagen representatives said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003191937	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192000	Thank you. Thank you for a fine speech from the rapporteur. The Danish society is based on trust, we have heard that many times, but not everyone feels obliged to respect our common values and laws, which are among other things. create trust. And in the election campaign the alternative has launched a government programme which refers to the rethinking of the Danish penal system. Legal policy must be based more on legal reasoning than on a sense of law, says the Alternative. Alternatives to prison sentences, such as community service and anklet service, are, according to the alternative, the most effective means of preventing crime. I would therefore like to hear the alternative about which criminal proceedings are currently giving prison, which the alternative prefers to provide for community service in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192035	I can't stand here and go through the penal code. What this is all about is that we know that it is not necessarily just higher penalties that make people not commit crime. There are a number of forms of crime where it is not the punishment that deters people, and a higher penalty does not deter any more. Then it is just that it is on the basis of a sense of justice when we go in and say that we need to be punished more severely, whereas, if we work on legal grounds, we can look at what it really is that we need to do something to rehabilitate those who have committed crimes instead of punishing only on the basis of some emotional register. So no, we have to make sense so that we do not see repetitions. Unfortunately, that is what you see in the prison system, which is that many people go straight out and do crime again. That's not what any of us want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192119	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192126	So the alternative believes that people who have committed gross assault should be able to commit themselves in our society with a educator in hand or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192134	I think that was quite a tightening up of what I said. No, there are a number of things when people have committed something punishable, where it does not matter whether there is a severe punishment or a harsher punishment. It doesn't stop people from doing it again. So we are concerned about how we ensure that people do not go out and do crime again, that is, how we take rehabilitation seriously when it does not happen in prisons, because people come out and commit crime again. That is actually just what we think would be a good idea, namely to start using legal reasoning instead of just a sense of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192205	Then it's mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192210	Thank you for the floor. As far as I can understand, the alternative is that climate and climate problems are the most important issue we have. At the same time, the alternative will promote organic farming with the aim of converting to fully organic farming. Organic farming has a greater climate footprint than conventional farming... so I would like to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: How can you defend promoting a technology that is unnecessarily straining the climate in relation to the technology that is otherwise available?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192246	I think the questioner should have a meeting with the Danish Organic Association, because they have quite a lot of good solutions for how to work with climate and ecology. If you heard my speech, I mentioned both the environment and the climate very many times. There is no point in polluting our nature and our environment through too intensive conventional agriculture. So we can do something both in relation to the environment and climate through organic farming.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192313	Sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192316	I guess that's the answer I'd expected from Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist. Now I think there is quite a consensus that organic farming has a greater climate footprint than conventional farming, but let us take it another time. Instead of asking the question in another way: if it turns out that organic farming is creating challenges in terms of achieving a 70% reduction, what will the alternative choose? Will they choose climate considerations or will they choose ecology? What is the most important thing for the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192344	Fortunately, this is not a choice we have to make. We are currently in a climate crisis, we are in a biodiversity crisis, we are facing the sixth mass extinction of species on the planet, and then we must act. So it's no use using different pesticides that kill insects. Then we have to act on it, and you can now have an office close to each other, so I am happy to come by with the reports that show how, so that new citizens can learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192414	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192416	Thank you for an exciting and alternative speech. One of the subjects that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned were new arithmetic models, and this is a really exciting subject, on which I actually have a fundamentally positive attitude. What I would like to hear is new arithmetic models in relation to the really exciting passage in the Prime Minister's opening speech, which we heard last Tuesday about bureaucracy. Because one of the things the Prime Minister mentioned was pseudowork. And if you're going to have new arithmetic models, you have to count on both positive and negative dynamic effects. We train a lot of people for pseudowork, and that is a negative dynamic effect. Is the alternative willing to say that if new arithmetic models show that we are educating too many people for pseudowork, then we should stop doing so because it has a negative dynamic effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192541	Yes, if there is an education called pseudowork, I am very willing to look at it. I think that it is very often about how we use the young people who come out of education and what kind of jobs we offer them and how they can contribute to it. I don't believe that some people are taking an education and saying: hey, I'd like to do pseudowork. So let us instead look at what kind of work we are actually offering; what kind of work we are offering the people who come out of education and can also help create. And, of course, we must take that passage from the Prime Minister's speech seriously, and it is also something that we have discussed as parties in the past, in other words, what we can do about some of these things. But this is not something to be trained for; it is more the work functions we have created.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192604	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192606	But the alternative and the Liberal Alliance have been able to come together in the past on a criticism of unnecessary bureaucracy. Needless bureaucracy is a negative dynamic effect of public spending. If these calculations are made, will the alternative go against all unnecessary bureaucracy, including pseudowork, when we get these new arithmetic models done?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192636	Yes, of course we will, because we are actually very concerned about how we can also free the public sector; how we can do so so that we do not stand and control the work of young people half to death when we train skilled young people. That is precisely where we must ensure that they are able to carry out the tasks we have. So we keep asking: how can we set institutions and the public sector free instead of controlling it to death? I think it was a rather fine passage, that is, that we often in this Parliament, when there is a single matter, are going to shout and say that now we must have some control over it and a right, instead of looking at whether it might be solved by actually giving some more freedom to the individual institution and the individual employee. And we would very much like to take part in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192715	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192717	Thank you. I would just like to touch on a completely different subject: the broadband pool. Everyone knows how important it is that you can quickly get on and through and that there are not too many mobile holes. We have been working on this much in the Left and in the Blue Camp in recent years, and we have also had a pool devoted to it, and it has solved the matter for a very, very many, but there is still more to be done out there. There are still many places where it needs to get up in gear. Unfortunately, we have just seen that the government, at least in the draft Finance Act, has removed that pool, which I think is very, very bad. So I would like to ask what comments the alternative has on that. Is that pool looped now? And I would like to ask whether the alternative like us in the Left would like to work to ensure that that pool does not disappear so that we can still get some faster broadband and some fewer mobile holes out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192807-2	Well, we are also very concerned about how we can get the whole country with us and that, when you live in peripheral areas, you also have the opportunity to get online in a proper way. Now the government has chosen not to have this pool. We are willing to discuss whether there are other ways it can be done, but we think it is a pity that there is no help whatsoever for us to get this done throughout the country. You could also look at the roll-out that you are making and whether private companies should help pay more of it when they now have the right to put it out and thus ultimately make money from it. However, we are very willing to go into this; we think it is quite important that there is help for the outermost regions also to be able to get broadband so that we get digitalisation for the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192847	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192848	Thank you. Would it be possible to imagine, if the alternative were invited to negotiations, that the alternative would also make it a condition for concluding an agreement that that pool would not be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192902	I am not going to stand here and say whether or not this is what will determine whether or not we can be part of a financial law. But that is one of the things we are also bringing to the negotiating table, along with a lot of the other things that we actually mentioned, which are also important. We think it is really important now that we have a new government that it will also be a new time, but it does not of course mean that we should forget about the digitalisation of the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192923	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003192926	The alternative is known for some very special communicative abilities. I even think that some people think that they may be at a completely different level when it comes to communicating. And now that the party has decided that no oil can be extracted in Denmark after 2042, I would like to know whether perhaps the communicative skills have been used to consult people in the Middle East who are also producing some oil. After all, the Danish gas and oil production is the most climate-friendly one has on the planet. And then I'd like to know if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has taken some thought and perhaps out there in the cosmos has consulted people in the Middle East, whether there are plans to stop extracting and using oil when Mr. So Rasmus Nordqvist has decided that we in Denmark should not produce it anymore. Because if we have not used our hypercommunicative abilities in this direction, then we will then be in the slightly baroque situation, that the world will continue to demand oil, but that the most climate-friendly oil, which is the Danish-produced, is no longer available on the market. And I mean, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist saw that it benefits the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193036	Now, when you look at the margin of uncertainty, these studies show that we are minimally better than Saudi Arabia, for example, compared to who is the most climate-friendly. But this is really about us listening to climate science, which says that 80%. of the known resources must remain underground. This applies to Russia, it applies to Saudi Arabia, and it applies to Denmark. So it's not in 2042 that we'd like to close this down... we'd like to make a phase-out plan of 10 years for the oil rigs we have in Denmark. And, of course, this is an issue we raise every time we talk about it in an international context, whether at European level, where Denmark soon, when Britain leaves the European Union, is the largest oil-producing country in the European Union, or at the meetings we have attended, for example. The COP in Katowice last year we had just a meeting about how we can make sure that fossil energies stay underground, that is 80%. of the known resources. I believe that it shows a good example if an oil-producing country like Denmark makes phasing-out plans. Then we can inspire and show which way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193139	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193140	Well, I guess we totally share the intention. Well, we all want the green transition very much. What I'm asking you is, isn't it, sir? Rasmus Nordqvist has given some thought to what it means if not all countries in the world move as quickly as Denmark and Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist would like to. Then perhaps his noble intentions can really damage the climate, and there I just think it would be fair and proper if he then said here today from the platform that yes, it is a matter of faith and that it is about being nice and not doing the right thing; it is about doing what feels right and not doing what is rationally right. That is quite fair, especially when you find yourself where the alternative seems to want to be, but then the rapporteur just has to say it openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193217	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193218	Well, that's just not the point. We know, among other things. from the economic sage Lars Gårn Hansen that the leak that will happen is not just 100 per cent.; it is not just all production that moves somewhere else. We have such a fantasy that if you change something in Denmark, it will move everything abroad. It's just not reality. So no, it's not a parallel reality. It is actually quite real that if we can show the way for how we, as an oil-producing country, can make a phasing-out plan over 10 years and thus make 80 per cent. of our known resources stay underground, we can inspire others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193254	Thank you. Then it's Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193258	Thank you. I feel just like my chairman. I'm a regular person, too. And I guess I miss a suitor or no suitor here too, because where are we, like, with the alternative? What do you want? What we know you will, and that, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says here in his speech about what you want with the climate is totally clear, but we probably miss some firm framework before we know where we are in this relationship. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist proposes green government bonds to finance the whole green transition, but we in the Radical Left might like a bid within the existing playing board. Green bonds are certainly exciting, and we would like to talk about this more, but what are the funding options that the alternative sees?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193356-2	Now, of course, we have presented financing plans over and over again. A year ago we came up with a government base where we actually raised 80 billion. kr. for a green switch. Everybody shook their heads. And then we just feel the way in the alternative that we say: OK, they didn't like that, but then we'll find someone else. We are actually trying to be solution-oriented and to come up with solutions instead of sitting around waiting for others to do so. We tried to make the proposal that the taxation of pension savings should be brought forward. There you could raise a lot of money. It's shaking your head all the way around. And then we say, okay, if you're not in it, then there's this solution that's been tried by in Holland, which is actually a good way, let's try it. We're not waiting. In fact, we always come up with solutions for how we can get on with this. Then it may well be that it is not within the radical playing board, but it is at least within the playing board of how to usually do things. In other words, an increase in the taxation of pension savings is nothing new; it has been tried before; the issue of government bonds has also been tried before. So it's kind of within the playing board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193459	We also thank you for that, and we'll look forward to looking more at these green bonds. It's a really exciting idea. What we can also see from what has been put forward by the Alternative is that there are some revenants from the economic thoughts of SF and Enhedslisten. There is just my question: are you people, for example? Take up some of the funding proposals that SF and Enhedslisten have made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193526	There are some of our funding proposals that go hand in hand with this, and there are others that do not. In fact, year after year, during the last parliamentary term, we have submitted draft financial legislation. Last year, we presented an entire government plan on how to do this, where we moved around a lot of billions. We deposed, among other things. 80 billion. kr. to the green switch. I have not just seen whether the SF has proposed this in the same way. If they do, it is wonderful, because then perhaps we can go back to it and look at both pension tax and green bonds. We're gonna have to find some money for this. We cannot sit here and wait for it to come next year or next year again. If we're going to get to at least 70%, we need to get started right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193606	Then it's Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193610	Thank you for the floor. Now we've talked a lot about climate, which is also an important topic. Fortunately, many of us have agreed on that now, but I do like to be a little more specific. You're known for being very, very ambitious, but you can sometimes doubt how we can achieve all these goals. So my question is therefore: what specific tools and means will the alternative use to achieve a reduction of 80%? the emission of greenhouse gases?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193644	After all, we have put forward very concrete proposals on agriculture, for example: to take land out of production and to switch from intensive livestock production to vegetable production. We have put forward proposals in relation to transport: how to phase out fossil cars and come in with electric cars, come in with bicycle transport, come in with public transport. We have put forward proposals on consumption and on how it is that we can ensure that producers of the products we buy are forced to produce them so that they last longer, so that we do not constantly buy new ones and throw out; how it is that through a halving of VAT on, for example, repairs we support people again starting to repair things instead of throwing out and buying new ones because it is cheaper. So we have put forward a lot of concrete proposals on how to get started with these things in both transport and agriculture, but also in energy production and in our consumption, which is so much of the burden that we put on the climate as citizens of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193745	Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193747	Thank you for your answer. But again, as you say, ideas about how to get started. But what means are needed to ensure that we actually reach it? And what are you going to do to pull the government in that direction as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193803	But then I am afraid I did not make myself clear enough, because it is a means of removing agricultural land from production; it is, in fact, a means of helping to convert agriculture from animal to vegetable production; it is thus a means of strengthening public transport so that we get people away from private cars and into public transport; it is, in fact, a means of making a bicycle action plan so that more people start cycling instead of taking the car. So all these are measures that need to be taken. Then there was also the point from the speech that concerns our entire economic system, that is to say that we have to look at what we are getting into consumption, because it is also so much of the climate load.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193844	Then it's Niels Flemming Hansen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193847	Thank you to the rapporteur for an excellent speech. I need to hear a little bit about our defenses. You're writing in your own government program that you'll save $24 billion. kr. on the defense over the next four years. I would like to hear where the defence needs to be specifically saved and which parts of our ongoing military participation and protection of our own country will in future experience less funding being made available.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193914	It is clear that when we want to cut so much, it is on a broad scale that defence needs to be cut down. It is because we believe that other methods are needed if we are to actually create peace, which is what it is all about. We have to go there instead of, among other things. We are also doing what we are doing in the same government programme on foreign service and bet on international cooperation instead. So it's over a wide comb. I can't tell you what it is. But among other things... After all, we have proposed that we should not go out and spend a staggering billions on new bombers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193946	Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003193947	I am a little concerned to hear that the alternative does not have any concrete measures, in terms of how and where they will save. I also worry a lot, as we have heard before today, about the Arctic. We have Russians flying across our borders pretty much every two weeks. So I would like the rapporteur to explain a little about whether he thinks it is realistic to have that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194013	But I think it is realistic to start looking at how we work on disarmament instead of armaments. Well, I actually think what you see in relation to the Arctic is creepy. I am afraid it will be a tension zone instead of a relaxation zone. Because some people do something, why do we have to do more? And then we build on. No, how can we go in and work on conflict resolution and disarmament instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194037	Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194041	Thank you. Although there are plenty of examples that the alternative party and the Left party do not agree at all on the direction in which we are going and how we get there, there is at least one example in an area where we agree, namely the tax on cigarettes. What is the rapporteur for the alternative saying that the government will only increase the tax on a package of cigarettes by DKK 10. over two years? And will the alternative help to find a majority outside the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194111	Well, now I can actually say that the alternative is some of those who have been fighting for this for a very long time. We have actually put forward proposals in the Folketing, for which unfortunately there was no majority, because the Left was also not in favour of an increase in the tax on cigarettes during the last period. It's a good thing you've got it now. But, of course, 10 kroner is not enough as the government has proposed. We're gonna have to get at least 60 kroner. And I'd like to be taller. So I am glad that the resolutions we tabled, which were unable to obtain the support of the Left, may now be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194140	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194142	Thank you. Well, it's a good thing you're getting smarter, for we all are. The alternative does so in many respects. I guess that's why you're out of the parliamentary base to this day. Will the rapporteur today give a guarantee that, if possible, this is what we are doing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194159	But the alternative still votes for its own policy. We did so before the elections, and that is the same policy we have now. So, yes, of course we will vote in favour of raising the price of cigarettes. That is our policy. And we've worked for it. We have been working for it for four years in the Folketing, and now it is part of the financial law negotiations. Then we'll have to talk about this. And then it's nice that the Left is on this one too now. It's a shame we didn't do it three years ago or two years ago, when we also had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194227	Then it's Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194231	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. In the Enhedslisten we are not so conservative when it comes to having only one relationship that has to be one way, or a relationship that has to be one way, as long as the relationship is healthy. And here I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the alternative for those places where we at least think you have a healthy relationship with each other. The obvious thing is, of course, the climate struggle, but there is also another place where we have been very happy with the cooperation, and it is about the victims of reform and the struggle for those people who are currently in a mess and cannot get an early retirement pension even if they are ill and who are simply subject to sanctions and a hetz. That is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur where the rapporteur sees we could work together and how we could do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194323	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194325	It is, of course, first of all to correct the mistakes that have been made in the past. However, I also think we should go further, and I know that our social rapporteur also has the catalogue full of ideas on how to move forward and not just correct the mistakes that have been made before, but create a system for people today that is based on trust and that is not based on mistrust and pressure on people all the time. So I think there are a few things we need to do at one and the same time • hurry to fix weaknesses and errors that have been made, and at the same time dare to think further and get started in creating the future system, which is based on trust, based on people and based on the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194408	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194409	Thank you for that, and thank you for helping to continue this work. Is there anything a little more specific in which the rapporteur thinks that this is where we should start work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194422	First of all, it's about how we roll back the reforms, so I can't stand and list the catalogue, so we're helping the individual citizen today. I just think it is important that we go on two legs so that we also create another system at the same time, so that we not only correct the errors in what is today, but also create a new system that is based on people. I think it's just very important that we stay focused on that. Very quickly, you can be pushed into just standing and cleaning up after someone else's mistakes. I think we should also dare to go further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194457	Then it's Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194500	Thank you for a very positive speech from the rapporteur. I was expecting something in a different direction. I had expected something about the rapporteur's thinking that he had been subjected to the greatest political theft or anything like that during the election campaign, that is to say that everyone had cut off your climate policy. But you're not in the alternative. It's nice, and I would like to commend you for that. The Left has also taken up a genuine green policy. We believe, for example, that moving CO2 to other countries is not enough. In fact, we need to reduce it, and I think we can actually find a fairly large consensus on that very quickly. What I would like to ask is a little more concrete proposals from you. Now let's assume I'm a corporate owner. How will the rapporteur motivate me as a co-player on the climate agenda • concretely and quickly with three proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194614	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194616	So fast? Now I think we're putting a little stress on it. Well, we have, for example. We are not afraid to use taxes as a good tool to change the behaviour of companies too, and how to use some of the taxes to reinvest in companies to make the green transition, precisely to help companies for the green transition. So if you work with climate taxes, green taxes, and how a backflow can happen, we are constantly being supported that companies are going in the right direction and thus becoming the co-player they have to be. But I think it is very important to look each other in the eye, including companies, and to say: we are serious about this. We've got this target now. I can't figure it out in my head if it's 98 percent. by the Folketing, which shares a 70-percent reduction target. So we have to look at the companies and say that it is now that we are moving and not about: how are we moving in 20 years' time? No, we have to get started tomorrow. And we want, among other things. To say: Well, the taxes that can be put on CO2 at the same time we must look at research and development. At the same time, we also need to look at how we can support cooperation between companies so that we can achieve more symbiosis, as we do, for example. has in Kalundborg and elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194728	Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194730	Thank you. I am afraid that it did not meet the reality of it. But I would like to help with that, so I would like to have a discussion with the rapporteur on that later. The next question is this: can the rapporteur do the same for households? I understand that we're a little bit more at home. And we also heard about green bonds • very interesting, exciting to discuss. But can we have the same three concrete, rapid proposals on the household side?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194801	It is good that the Left is starting to be busy with the green transition. We've been waiting for that for four years, so let's hurry. Yes, we have actually suggested that we look at what we are imposing on CO2 and then it may well be that one would say: that was not quite concrete enough. But so, taxes on consumption, returns to the individual citizen that is now quite specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194831	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194834	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I noticed something that was said to the Conservative Member of the Folketing, Birgitte Bergman, in his speech from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, and it was about crime and punishment. It was said that we should only punish if it could mean that the perpetrator got better. And I'm just gonna ask you a question. Rasmus Nordqvist really thinks so. Because is the risk not, if you have it that way and implement the policy of the Alternative in this area, that we have a situation in which those who are victims of crime have been beaten down on the street and miserably injured must experience that they must almost take matters into their own hands, because if the Alternative, if they were given power, as they have observed here in the Folketing, would think that it should not be punished unless the perpetrator got better about it? - Sir... Rasmus Nordqvist understand that we are some who say: Hey, hey, what about the victims? They really get into trouble if we differentiate whether it is something that benefits the perpetrator or not when we punish.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003194944	Sometimes I feel like these opening debates a little like those football matches, because I've heard that you can rewind so you can just get the right wording. 'Cause I wasn't talking about the perpetrator getting better. I was talking about a court of law; what is it we get resocialized so that people don't go out and do crime again? I wasn't just talking about it, but maybe we can see it through together, because I thought it was a tightening up of what I said, that the perpetrators should feel better. No, that's not what I said. I was talking about how we're gonna make sure people don't go out and commit crime again. It must be for all of us to look at: how do we actually manage to rehabilitate ourselves so that we do not see people who are criminals, go to prison and come out and do crime over and over again? How are we actually doing something about this, so we have a society without crime? I think that must be what we are striving for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195038	I thought it was a good thing that we just got that clarification. Because then it may not be as cash as it was said here during the debate, or I certainly heard it said by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. The side of Rasmus Nordqvist. In addition to that, I would like to say that it is a problem with the perpetrators who are let out of prison, because the victim is experiencing a very critical situation, an insecure situation, by the perpetrator being released from prison relatively quickly after committing something criminal. And is mr. Rasmus Nordqvist did not agree that it therefore requires a firm hand so that we do not get the vigilante on the part of society to take on that crime and ensure that the punishment comes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195124	Yes, and that's why we're really preoccupied with what we're actually doing with rehabilitation. What's it like we're working on getting the victim to move on after? And we're really concerned that we shouldn't just think that we're gonna solve this by throwing people in jail. It's not all crime that's just solved with it. How are we gonna get society to move on? How do we make the victims feel better? How are we to ensure that we do not see people who are becoming more and more criminals go to prison, come back and do more crime, etc.? That is, in fact, just what we are concerned with, and I actually thought I was quite nuanced in my answer, also to the Conservative questioner. So I think it's sir. Peter Skaarup, who chose to tighten what I said, tremendously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195159	We have two questioners left, and if we help each other take time, we can make it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195208	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which stretched from prison to a little ecology again. Some of what the alternative is in favour of is 100%. I would like to begin by asking whether this is a requirement which the alternative also brings to the table in connection with the discussion of the Climate Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195237	Now I do not think that the questioner is surprised when I say: the alternative does not make demands, we make requests, we come up with good solutions, we come up with ideas. Because that is how we believe that together we can make the good solutions politically. So it won't be a requirement. But since we started the alternative, our goal is to be 100%. ecologically in 2040 in Denmark was thus part of our policy, and it is also when we discuss climate law, finance law and agricultural policy in the EU area, etc. So it is a completely central part of our policy and it remains so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195311	Anni Mattiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195312	Thank you. One of the things I would like to ask a little about in this context is that it is often consumer demand that almost determines how much is to be produced by farmers, one might say. And one of the things that we are actually experiencing in these months is that a great many organic farmers are actually having a difficult time because world cereal prices are falling. And that actually means that we may be in a situation where organic farmers may have to turn around and become conventional. I would like a comment from the alternative to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195351	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195352	Now farmers have been very tight, including the conventional ones, for a long time, and fortunately we actually have quite massive subsidies for agriculture • we support it financially. And that's what we need to do to make that transition for our nature and our environment and our climate. I would rather that we help farmers to do this instead of seeing a profession that is actually very hard pressed in every possible way, as it is today economically. In fact, I think we should look at how we can help convert.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195419	The last question in this round is Mrs. Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195423	Thank you. For a party that says that they take the climate as perhaps the most serious, I think that the alternative rapporteur owes a proper answer to Mrs Bjerre, the former author of the alternative. Because when asked whether Danish climate reductions take precedence over international climate reductions, the Alternative's rapporteur begins to talk about what the Danes put on the plate. That is why I need to know whether the alternative will decide what the Danes should eat and whether it is something they will enter into their negotiations with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195459	So either I express myself really, really badly up here, or you have some intention of distorting what is being said, because I was talking about food production and not about what is being put on the plate. After all, we do have quite a lot of exports of food from Denmark, so if we change our food production, we will be producing something else, including for export. We would like to take a look at how we can do something through taxes. I do not think it is new that we have proposed levies on beef, and we have discussed this many times. It is, of course, a way of regulating the consumption of meat by the individual citizen. We would like to take a look at how we work with food policy in the public sector. Now the chairman of the Danish People's Party is not here, but it is among other things. I also know that some of the things you have with you in the budgetary conciliation that has been done in Copenhagen today. It's this meal plan about how to cook more climate-friendly food in the City of Copenhagen. So we want to work for it everywhere, and at the same time it is about food production.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195559	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195600	Well, it's fair that you have that starting point, but you still have to get the answer to whether Danish climate reductions take precedence over international and European climate reductions. So, what's your first priority when you have to make the agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195616	Well again: I do not accept the premise that it is either-or. This is about how we move in relation to the climate. How do we do it regionally, how do we do it locally, how do we do it nationally, how do we do it Europeanly, how do we do it globally? We must act on all aspects of the climate. We cannot sit and point our finger at anyone and say: no, we are not going to do anything here, because they have to do something there. We have to act, and we have to do that now, and we have to do that at home, and we have to do that in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195643	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Time's up. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003195657	Thank you. Then I stand here as a newly elected parliament, president of a whole new party, put in here by Danes who have shown confidence and expect me to lift my responsibilities as an elected representative, elected by the people. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you don't know me very well yet, and you may not know New Citizens as well either. You will. I will tell you who we are, what we stand for, what is important to us, and what we will fight to achieve. In the committee rooms and hopefully also in the negotiating rooms you will meet me or one of our three other members of parliament, and you will find that we may not be exactly like the rest of you, but we are real and constructive. So even though the Danes have put together a Parliament with a massive red majority and what the bourgeois can look slightly black for the future development of our lovely country, we are not going to sit over in a corner with crossed arms. We're not in on the worst, but we're in on the best. Solving immigration policy from scratch is for us in New Citizens the most important task. If we don't do it, anything else can really matter. Because then it disappears Denmark that we know and care about. Instead of continuing with more patching solutions, we insist on grabbing the root of the nettle and solving the problems from scratch. There are three decisions that we as legislators need to take. We need to put a stop to access to spontaneous asylum in Denmark; we need to ensure that foreigners in Denmark support themselves; and then we need to ensure in law that criminal foreigners are deported consistently and after the first sentence. With the Radicals close to the corpse in Danish politics and with the Enhedslisten in the backpack, it will not be the easiest task in this Parliament, but New Citizens have been formed because politicians on both sides of the political middle for too many years have refused to do what is right and necessary, and we will not change our mission because the Folketing has become red or because the Radical Left has gone ahead in the election. You're gonna know us as the party that says what we're gonna do and does what we say. That is what we demand of ourselves. We have promised that to our constituents. Here at Christiansborg you call the ultimate requirement. I don't. I call it keeping your word, and there is the recognition that the asylum system is dysfunctional and that foreign policy has done and continues to do great damage to our society and to our trust-based government of the people. The recognition has also affected social democracy, and I was pleased when the Prime Minister repeated in her opening speech that she will take the lead in a new asylum system that abolishes the possibility of seeking spontaneous asylum in Denmark. This is a first and a necessary step in saving our national community of peoples. It should have been carried out long ago by the Left Government or by the VLAK Government, but unfortunately the acknowledgement never quite reached Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in his time. Now, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen has a past as chairman of the Left, and I hope that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, as the new President, does not inherit the floodgates, but together with us will press for the Social Democratic Government to stick to the fact that we must stop spontaneous asylum in Denmark. We do not need the approval of the European Union. Our policy on foreigners is protected by our reservations in the EU Treaty. We do not need to leave the UN conventions in order to put an end to asylum. The Ministry of Integration and former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Mrs Inger Løjberg have explained this several times. So a stop to spontaneous asylum in Denmark and a greater Danish commitment to the area of conflict can be dealt with in the Folketing with relatively simple legislative changes. It's really just getting started. When I was listening to the Prime Minister's speech on Tuesday, there were several paragraphs where I thought that I could actually have said that myself, and I am not a Socialist; I am not a Prime Minister either, but I will never be a Socialist. A larger public sector at the expense of private initiative is not my way, more taxes and higher taxes are poisoned for economic growth and for the wealth of the Danes, and higher benefits for migrants at the integration service which the government has launched as its first initiative, I will oppose everything I have and I hope that the entire opposition will back up when, if the law on higher benefits for foreigners is adopted, we activate section 42 of the Constitution. But Mette Frederiksen has plans for a proximity reform, she said, and that is a good word, and I could hear that there were some good observations behind it. The recognition that the welfare state has become too centralistic, that too much pseudo-work is being done in the public sector, that more money does not necessarily change anything, and that confidence is under pressure and other good observations of the same nature we heard in the Prime Minister's speech. From our infancy four years ago, in New Citizens, we have said and written a lot about politicians deciding too much. The Prime Minister said the same thing in connection with the proximity reform she wants to implement. We should not legislate over time, we should let go, said the Prime Minister, and I and New Citizens agree with that. Politicians must decide less, and the Danes must decide much more for themselves, including more of our own money. For the two things are connected: the money and the power. When politicians have to legislate less, set fewer rules and show greater confidence in both the public employees and the Danes, responsibility must necessarily follow: responsibility for one's own work, responsibility for one's own time and responsibility for one's own money. It is enough here that, as a new bourgeois party, we can bring more realizations on the table when the proximity reform is to be translated from speech paper into action. The centralisation which the welfare state has undergone under both Left-led and Social-Democratic-led governments over the past 20-30 years has led to an impelling of the Danes and a clientisation of the Danes. The state has taken over responsibility from the Danes, wrapped the system in ever more laws and made the rules more and more complicated. Why has it come to this? It is because politicians have so far had only one answer to the problems: we are making a new law or a new rule. That is how life as a politician has been for far too many years, and for every new law and every new rule, the Danes' power over their own lives has become a little less and the power of politicians has become a little greater. The responsibility and power have moved from the Danish families in here at Christiansborg, and you have sent far too much to Brussels. I and New Citizens would like to put our energy into opening new spaces in the political toolbox, spaces with tools that can be used to settle laws, make the rules simpler and precisely teach politicians to let go. Because the Danes can do it themselves. The vast majority can and would like to have more power over their own lives, more choice, more freedom, also over more of their own money. So, Prime Minister, I liked what I heard in that part of your speech. In concrete terms, I would suggest to the government that it begin by shutting down the municipal job centres. The Job Centres have developed into a star example of pseudowork and clientisation. Job centres provide very few jobs while flogging sick people and wearing out a system that only makes sick people sicker and worn out more incapable of working. Sick and worn must be treated dignifiedly. Therefore, it should be only an independent medical assessment to determine whether to have an early retirement pension, possibly a temporary early retirement pension, if there is hope of improvement. The rule tyranny in the job centres today employs approx. 9,000 people, people who could be released for good productive jobs in the private sector where more labour is needed. In the job centres, 4 billion are spent every year. kr. on administration alone, money that could be returned to the Danes as a visible proof that the politicians have taken the spoon into the other hand and choose to give back the responsibility to the citizens and of course let the money go with it. To be able to help reverse development and move Denmark towards smaller state and more human would make me proud. This, together with foreign policy, is the heart of the New Citizen. My final appeal to the Prime Minister and to all of you, my new colleagues, must be: in everything we do, we must do it fully, not piecemeal and shared, for freedom and the country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200728	That is how we are going to start the debate. First, it's sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200734	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Pernille Vermund. In his speech, the rapporteur also referred to the issue of worn-out. It was specific to job centres. But, as you know, it takes a great deal for the government to create a right to early retirement, and after New Citizens have entered the Folketing, we are in the process of searching where the party actually stands on various points. I would really like to hear whether the party agrees that we have a challenge here with a group in Denmark that is worn out and where the aid today is not good enough and where the opportunities for them are not good enough. Do you agree with the diagnosis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200821	Thank you for the question. New citizens are definitely in agreement, and I'm actually glad, because when I walked up here and on the road was offered a candy of Social Democracy, I thought: is this such a bribe, or is it a fucking bullshit • if you have to say it no, is it a close mouth candy? And then I thought, okay, here comes something. But yes, we are in complete agreement with that. It is an acute problem that we have a group of citizens who are both sick and worn out and who are currently being costted around the system. You don't get the dignified treatment that you require and that we owe them. I'm an architect. I spent most of my time in construction. Architects don't get quite so worn down, but I share everyday life with masons, with carpenters, with earth and concrete workers, and they're not very old until they start walking around and having pain in their knees and having pain elsewhere. I know that there are craftsmen who work beyond the 37 hours they have to work and that they don't deliver everything. It doesn't change the fact that this group is too big. And they require dignified treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200938	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003200939	I think that's good tones, absolutely. As you know, it is important for the government to move forward in our work to create a right to early retirement. For us, all mandates count equally. We think it is insanely important, and would like to hear with that recognition whether New Citizens can somehow see themselves as part of that process, or what does Mrs Pernille Vermund think here a few months after the elections, where it will clearly be an important subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201015	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201016	As I said in my speech, we will work constructively to draw Denmark in the right direction. And in this area there is no doubt that there is a need for us to stand together in recognition that if we want a welfare society, we owe it to those who are sick and worn out that they receive dignified treatment. We then believe that the way to do this is to pull the people out of the job centres, close the job centres, create another solution where, as I have said, it will only be an independent medical assessment and not municipal case officers to assess whether people are too sick to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201050	Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201052	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for her speech, and congratulations on the debut on the platform. Pernille Vermund said in his speech that she was not on the worst, but was on the best. That is why I would like to ask whether Mrs Pernille Vermund believes that it is the best or the worst thing when the Socialist Government has now announced that they do not want to continue the broadband pool which, under the old government, helped to secure the Internet quickly for the Danes in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201127	It was a very specific issue which is so far away from something I have ever talked about in my time as party chairman, but thank God I have talked about it in the past. For me, it is a bit crazy that we still have huge black holes in our society, where there is no coverage, and if the government and a majority in the Folketing really believe that our infrastructure must also deteriorate in the digital field, then it is a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201157	Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201158	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund for that very clear answer, and this is a position which I fully share. Turning now to rural development, I would like to hear: what else are New Citizens' ideas on how to create growth, settlement and development in places where there is a little longer between houses than here in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201216	We have several specific bids. First of all, we believe that the money should be much more consistent with the citizens. This means that the money that comes with when a child is going to a day-care institution or school, when an elderly person is going to a nursing home, etc., must of course follow the individual citizen and not be allocated to the institutions, so that the municipalities, as they are today, can sit and spend their money. This means that we do not get this laying down of local small schools and thus also urban communities. We also have a plan for an infrastructure which is much more closely linked to Denmark than today. On the one hand, taxes on petrol, cars and so on must be levied. We have to work towards road equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201259	Then it's Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201300	Thank you. I would like to ask a few questions about New Citizen's somewhat complex relationship to the Constitution. On the one hand, you hear New Citizens say that new citizens coming to Denmark must put the Constitution above all else, and if they do not, they can take their things and travel out of Denmark, as a leading candidate for New Citizens in North Jutland has formulated it. On the other hand, we also have new citizens who have launched a series of proposals which are somewhat contrary to the constitution, for example. to stop selling public land to mosque construction, to stop subsidies to Muslim private schools and to refrain from granting citizenship to citizens of nine countries which are predominantly Muslim. So will Mrs Pernille Vermund confirm that New Citizens' view of the Constitution is that those who may be new citizens must put it high, above all, while New Citizens are allowed to override it in order to achieve their political objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201406	We have great respect for our constitution and for our common Danish values. There is nothing in the Constitution that says that we have to state in the Constitution that it is the Folketing that passes laws on who should have citizenship in Denmark. In relation to free schools, it is already the case in the free school law that if a free school is based on undemocratic values, it does not comply with the free school law. In other words, a free school must already be based on democratic values. And since Islam and democracy slash freedom are two opposing values, and since Islam, wherever Islam gains, displaces freedom and democracy, it goes without saying that, of course, you cannot have free schools where there is no gender equality or, incidentally, it is the Islamic view, yes, what to say, these fundamental values that are at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201511	Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201512	In fact, when you open your drawer down here in the Assembly Hall, you find the Constitution, and Article 70 says: "No one can be deprived of access to the full enjoyment of civil and political rights because of his creed or descent..... So how does Mrs Pernille Vermund actually understand this paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201535	It is not a civil right to obtain citizenship in Denmark when you come as a foreigner. If that were the case, there was no reason for us to pass laws on it. It is the case that it is we here in the Folketing who pass the laws every time there are new people who must have citizenship in Denmark, and that is how it should continue to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201553	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201555	I took particular note of Mrs Pernille Vermund's statements on access to early retirement, and some of the positions expressed by Mrs Pernille Vermund are consistent with the SF's. That's why I want to be absolutely sure how deep it is. I noticed that Mrs Pernille Vermund said that it should be a medical assessment to decide. That's all it's gonna be? Are there no other parameters? And how, then, will the new citizens be able to award and judge flex jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201632	We believe that this should only be a medical assessment. It is typically the case that if you are either sick and worn out or if you are acutely exposed to an accident and therefore become incapable of working, either temporarily or permanently, you are already in a medical system or in a health care system. From there, of course, we must move on to an independent medical advice which can assess this. What is important to us is that you don't sit in the municipality in a job centre with case workers who can in fact refrain from looking into the medical records and making their own decisions and whip people around this system. It is also the case that, in our economic policy, we have set aside money because we know that the people who are being whipped around the system today will have the right to either a temporary or permanent early retirement with New Citizens' policy. It costs, and we think we owe each other that much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201733	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201733-2	It sounds very clever to have a medical opinion which simply decides it. But here I really must ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to go a little deeper into it, because a medical assessment cannot determine whether you should have a flex job of 5 hours or 12 hours. I don't suppose the doctor can judge that. And now I am trying to ask you a positive question about this, because it could be interesting, because we need alliance partners who can help create an easier life for the sick, the vulnerable and the vulnerable. But if I am to take it seriously, then there will have to be other proposals and other changes than just the one with the medical profession, which can handle some things, but not all things at all. Because it is not the case that people are either sick or dying or completely healthy. There are all kinds of variations in between. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201813	Thank you. Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201815	When we talk about early retirement, it is for people who are either permanently incapable of working or permanently incapable of working. These are the people who need only a medical assessment and who, therefore, are not going to go through the job centres today and whip around the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201833	Then it is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201837	Thank you for the floor. If you listen to what the rapporteur on the new citizens says, and if you also listened to the consultation on 28 August, you could quickly get the impression that New Citizens care a lot about the conditions of life, legal certainty and the welfare of reformers. But when you go in and read a little more of New Citizen's politics, that impression changes quite enormously. For here it says that New Citizens will bid the people who are affected by unemployment and come on cash benefits, DKK 6,000. and DKr 1,800. per child after baby. This means that a single mother with one child, after rent and electricity have been paid, has 102 DKK. available for food, winter boots, glasses with the right strength for his child, medicine and these things • a lump sum of DKK 102. I do not quite understand how this is related to the words spoken in the rapporteur's speech. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201940	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003201942	If Mrs Velasquez had read further on the website, Mrs Velasquez would know that this basic benefit is exclusively for people who either step out of the education system or who are newly educated and have therefore not been able to save the right to unemployment benefit. Our policy includes the fact that we believe it must be compulsory to take out insurance either in an insurance fund or in other insurance, so that we do not, as we do today, have people who only have cash benefits. And this is only going to be a substitute for the SU that you resign from, and that's why it's also at SU level.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202021	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202022	Thank you for your clarification. It still doesn't remove my concern. In the case of cash benefits, there are not the same rules as there are, for example: is for cash benefits. There are rules on how much value you must have. There are several different parts, and as Mr. Karsten Hønge also said, there are many things, if you are suddenly affected by illness or if you are affected by unemployment. That is why I just have to know that if you risk losing your job, that is to say if you become unemployed, it is supposed to result in a social de-oute? Because that is one of the things that appears when you look at New Citizens' policies in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202057	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202059	Our policy is that the basic benefit applies to those people who are either in education and drop out and may be on their way to a new education or who are newly educated and therefore have not subscribed to unemployment insurance. For the others who are on the labour market, you have to take out insurance against unemployment, either in an unemployment fund or in some other way, and if you are ill or worn out, you do not have to go around the system and live on a cash aid that you are doing today. So we have set aside money to ensure that those people who are currently parked on cash benefits but who should have an early retirement pension either temporarily or permanently receive proper treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202137	Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202139	Thank you and thank Mrs Pernille Vermund for her speech. I look forward to the cooperation, solutions must be made together, and they must, of course, be for the best of Denmark, including in matters other than foreign policy. For example: We have a joint task in solving the shortage of labour from scratch, as the rapporteur will probably call it. Many efforts are needed, including: to facilitate the amount regime, which is today a scheme that ensures that our companies can employ foreign talents in their companies • foreign talents who want to work in Denmark. However, as the Conservative People's Party has recently proposed, it must also be possible for older people to work all they want without being set off against their pensions. There is not necessarily enough incentive to do so today. So my question is: will new citizens support this proposal from the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202232	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202236	I can't help but think of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202240	Then we're on to the next one, and that's sir. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202245	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. We are right now in the stronghold of democracy, in the finest assembly of the kingdom. And I have been given the floor to ask the rapporteur a question. One of the prerequisites for me to ask the question is that I am a Danish citizen. And precisely the right to citizenship will New Citizens deprive young people who were born in the country, who grew up in the country, who have taken an education in the country and who, in my case, have been elected to the Folketing by the Danish people. So my very specific question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur really believe that young people born here should be deprived of the right to acquire citizenship only because they have parents from countries, New Citizens as Islamic?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202347	Thank you. If I may correct the questioner, it is not the case that we take citizenship from people who have citizenship and who, moreover, are law-abiding citizens just to be clear. In relation to whom we think should be granted citizenship, it is quite true that we have the view that politicians have for too many years given citizenship to people who should never have had it; that we have given citizenship to people who educate their children not to be good, law-abiding fellow citizens with Danish values, but to turn their backs on some Danish values and to others' direct opposition to them. We know through studies that an increasing proportion of young people with a non-Western background believe that religious laws should be above democratically adopted legislation. It's poison for democracy. In addition, we can see in our statistics that children of immigrants from Muslim countries in particular commit significantly more crime than other citizens do. We cannot examine these two things in the context of a conversation, in the context of the granting of citizenship, and that is why we have said that there are people from a number of countries that, until we have control of the immigration policy, we cannot grant citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202505	Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202506	But I would say to the rapporteur that these are citizens who were born in the country; citizens who work, who have taken an education, that is to say, ordinary citizens. And the reason why I am asking the question is that Mrs Mette Thiesen has recently been out saying about a well-integrated citizen, Harun Demirtas, that she hopes he will never get Danish citizenship simply because he is from Turkey. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really believe that well-integrated citizens can be excluded from citizenship simply because their parents are from a particular country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202550	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202551	It is our policy that, as long as foreign policy is not under control, there are a number of Islamic countries that we have said that people coming from these countries will not be able to obtain citizenship with our approval. We believe that we should put an end to the granting of citizenship to people from these countries until the immigration policy has been put in order. So that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202614	Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202616	Thank you. And congratulations on the maiden speech. I can't wait to see it's my turn. It won't be long. I'd like to ask you a few questions about your three mandatory or ultimate demands. A little advice might be that you have to be careful with them, but leave it alone. I believe that the content of them, or that the objective behind them, is 90 mandates, but we believe that this should be done pragmatically by amending the conventions through international cooperation. If you go the New Citizens' Way and say that you do not want it to be waited for, and if Denmark withdraws from the Refugee Convention, then we will also get out of the Dublin Regulation, and that will most likely mean that all the refugees who come to Denmark will not be able to send to other countries. And then, with New Citizens' policy, you risk getting even more refugees than you would otherwise have done. I would like to hear Mrs Pernille Vermund's comment on that. And by the way, I'm looking forward to seeing if mr. Morten Østergaard will be throwing himself into the arms of the New Citizens' refugee policy tomorrow in the wake of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202720	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202722	Thank you for the question. As I said in my speech, there is nothing in the Refugee Convention that prevents us from changing the current asylum system so that we no longer give spontaneous asylum in Denmark, but only help war refugees in their vicinity. Then it is true that there are regulations in the European Union which mean that Denmark itself has signed up to the fact that today we have an agreement that refugees should be helped in the first safe country to which they come. But these agreements have de facto come out of effect. Had they not been, we would never have received a single refugee at Danish borders, because there are no direct routes here for people; and they would be stopped at an airport. So we are not yet bordering, thank God, on the countries from which refugees are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202817	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202819	Yeah, yeah, but it just wasn't really an answer to the question. If Denmark is not part of the cooperation within the European Union and the regulations that belong there, then the rapporteur must recognise that this may mean that more refugees will end up in Denmark, in other words because you cannot work together to send them back to another EU country or, for that matter, completely out of the European Union. I do not think that the rapporteur will be more precise as to whether it is not worrying for the rapporteur when the question of refugees is so important to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202854	The worrying thing for me and for New Citizens is that we still have an asylum system which means that if the migratory pressure rises again, we are in a situation where we are virtually as vulnerable as we were last, so migrants coming to the Danish border down from Germany can show up at the border and say asylum and thus get a ticket in hand and be asked to drive to Sandholm camp and then, as I said earlier on the day, for many people can just disappear into the country. That's what worries New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202925	Then it's mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003202927	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your election; it is nice to have a whole new party in the Folketing. I am getting a little curious because we are both elected in the same great circle, where there are very many production jobs, and we have both met some of the most worn out in the labour market. In fact, I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund has a constructive approach to what is happening at the moment and, as Mrs Pernille Vermund knows, the Social Democracy has proposed a right for those who have been longest in the labour market and those who are most worn out. I'm actually listening a little forward to it's possible, it's because I'm an optimistic West Jyde that Pernille Vermund agrees with the idea of a differentiated retirement age, so I'd like to hear a little about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203009	New citizens believe that the right to early retirement or an earlier retirement should be assessed individually. We do this on the basis that every time politicians make boxes and systems that people have to fit in with when they say, for example, that now you have to have been x number of years on the labour market or been in certain industries, there are people who fall outside those boxes and who thus go through the system. That is one of the problems today. The second problem is that these boxes can also mean that there are people who have the right to withdraw earlier and who really should not have it. I really think that the first problem is the worst. So we would much rather that we assess people individually and that we remove them from this inferior system that we have today with the job centres, because I think that there is some of the flaw in the current system, that is to say that we have people who have been on the labour market for a long time, who are often proud adults, and who find it almost impossible to go to a municipal office and face a municipal lady and should ask for help.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203117	But that means that I also hear that Mrs Pernille Vermund recognises that there is a challenge to the labour market and that there are a lot of people, for example. South Jutland, for example, which has to. to take medication to cope with everyday life at all. Are I to understand that Mrs Pernille Vermund is going constructively, actively into these negotiations simply to create better conditions for those who have entered the labour market at the earliest and are most worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203139	We are going to go very constructively to these negotiations, because it is an acute problem and it is an important problem to resolve. We owe each other, if we want to maintain that we have a welfare system, that those people who cannot take care of themselves are given a helping hand, but they are not doing so today. The way we treat the sick and the worn out is unworthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203159	The next question is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203204	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. It shouldn't be a secret that the free choice means a lot to us in the Left, that is to say this: if you don't thrive on the offer we can make you on the public side, or if there is too much waiting time, you have the opportunity to choose something else, even if you don't have the world's biggest purse. It was a little disturbing to hear the Prime Minister's opening speech, where I guess I can say without getting hurt that she didn't speak up for free elections. This was then followed by a financial bill which chose to go out with the idea of lowering the coupling rate for free schools from 76 per cent. ed 71 per cent. We also take the view that if you do not thrive in primary school, some of your most important years, you should also have the opportunity to choose something else, even if your parents do not have a lot of money. Therefore, I would like to hear a little about New Citizens' views on free choice and freedom of choice in relation to the public offerings, i.e. if you do not thrive on the offers there are, and more specifically on this proposal, which makes it harder for parents who are not so well off to send their children to a free school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203310	We want to strengthen the free choice. It is both in relation to the primary school and in other areas which are currently run by the public authorities. That is why we are really pleased that it seems that there is already a majority outside the government, which is opposed to changing the coupling rate. We want it to be fully up, understood in the sense that we believe that the full amount should follow the children and that all schools should be free schools, self-serving institutions, where we as citizens can vote with our feet. If today there is a school that does not work, then the classrooms suddenly stand empty, and then the municipality comes up with a clever idea that you just put children in there, instead of recognising that when the school is in empty classrooms, it is actually sometimes because there is something raving wrong at the school. If it doesn't have a consequence, that you run a school badly, that you have poor management, bad teachers, a bad school environment and other things, then we keep putting these problems on people. So more free choice is New Citizen's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203412	Thank you so much for your answer. There are enough nuances about how we want to solve this, but in this respect, with the fact that we want to put the citizens at the centre, there is at least some ideological thought that I think is somewhat similar. So I'm gonna settle for it and look forward to us talking about some of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203429	Thank you. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203437	We shall move on to the question, and the floor will be given to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203438	Thank you. I think it is very interesting to hear Mrs Pernille Vermund's answer to the questions that come, not least from the newly-appointed President of the Liberal Alliance, and also from Mrs Pernille Vermund's speech that it is not felt in the new citizens that it is necessary to leave the conventions in order to introduce at least parts of her foreign policy. But I remember vividly in the election campaign when Mrs Pernille Vermund demanded of the former President of the Left Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, that he had to be prepared to leave the international conventions if New Citizens could be regarded as a supporting party to a possible Left Government, and I know that there is not necessarily a contradiction between these two things. I just need to know, for the sake of good order, whether it is still the policy of Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens that if the opportunity should be offered, the Left must be prepared to leave international conventions if they are to count New Citizens as a supporting party. Or are we into something now that it's actually okay for people to stay in the conventions because you think that foreign policy can be adapted to your advantage within them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203551	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203553	I can't believe I should be so happy with the questions from the left and especially from the SF. The version of New Citizen's politics that is being put forward here is Lars Løkke Rasmussen's version of New Citizen's politics and not my version. Unfortunately, these are the conditions when you are a small party with no party funding and are up against a strong Prime Minister who has never taken the time to drink the cup of coffee that might have been able to clarify all this. So Lars Løkke Rasmussen's version of New Citizens' politics was that it was ultimate for us to step out of the conventions. It never was. For example, the three indispensable requirements we have are that we should have a new asylum system. That is what the Prime Minister has now said she will take the lead in. I do not suppose that the Prime Minister will resign immediately and first of all from the conventions. So I assume that the Prime Minister has received the same reply from the Ministry as the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Mrs Inger Nøjberg, said. In the other areas, it is not our view that it is necessary to withdraw from the conventions in order to resolve immigration policy from scratch.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203711	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203713	Okay, I don't know if I should call it soothing, but thanks for the answer. It's good to get it solved. In addition to this, I think you must interrupt me if you disagree that one of the reasons why the conventions could have been the way is that Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens believe that we should help fewer refugees here in Denmark, they should be helped in the neighbourhood, it is said. It's gonna be nodded, okay. I'm just wondering. Because if it is the case that you want to help refugees in the neighbouring areas of New Citizens, why do you not call for significant increases in development aid, and why do you say so, for example? No more climate solutions, since there are many refugees coming from the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203758	And the rapporteur has to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203800	We have actually said with our policy that part of the money spent on development aid today must be spent directly and purposefully on helping people in the neighbourhood. It has to be the conditions that, when we do not bring refugees here, some money must be moved back to the surrounding areas, where we can of course help a lot more for the money we are spending. On the other hand, we can actually save ten times more on the money we spend there, because we can of course save on the costs we have here. Well, we spend billions a year in Denmark by helping people here, besides that it is devastating for our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203835	The next question is Mr. Henrik Møller of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203839	Thank you. First of all, I am pleasantly surprised by the feedback that has come from New Citizens from entering into the debate on the early withdrawal. So it sounds positive. I think it sometimes pays to have ice in your stomach, because the understanding paper with the goal of the 70%. The alternative was initially a little alone with its support, but subsequently we have seen that more and more parties have joined this objective. I heard Mrs Pernille Vermund mention that she was not so much in favour of shared solutions, but would like to have whole solutions, and that is why I think it would be wonderful if, in this matter, we could have an entire Parliament and not a divided Parliament now that the Left has also accepted the 70% target.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203938	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003203940	After all, the fact that we have to do things completely does not mean that we all have to agree on everything. It would be a quite, quite terrible country to live in if a Parliament had only one opinion, one opinion. When New Citizens are against the Climate Act and a law that by 2030 we have to have a reduction in CO2 in Denmark When we have to go further, it means that there are Danish families, Danish companies, Danes in general, which need to be tightened up. This means that it will be as it always is when you place a burden on our society, namely that those who have the hardest will get it even harder. Then I know that the left is going to say: well, this can be offset by redistribution. And there I am just saying: I do not want a society in which a climate law is used as a lever to introduce planned economy and socialism.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204053	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the questioner again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204055	Now I kind of agree that we don't have to agree on everything, but when it comes to precisely this, which is one of the most important things, both for our society and in and for ourselves, for our planet, it could be great if you had a united Parliament that at least supported this. One might also choose to say that the investment that is in this is not just a lack or a loss, but can actually develop new jobs and help create growth for this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204119	New citizens' opinion is that this is at best a waste of resources and, at worst, can be directly counterproductive. The emissions that can be saved from Denmark take up nothing globally. On the other hand, if we have economic growth and prosperity from now on and the next 10 years ahead, if we spend our money wisely, we will be able to do wonders for the rest of the world. So if we rush it and make ourselves relatively poorer in relation to our neighbouring countries, it could, at worst, be extremely counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204159	The next question is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204202	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for the speech. New citizens talk a lot about Danish values and beautiful Denmark, on which we can only agree in this Chamber. Mrs Pernille Vermund's party colleague Mette Thiesen was recently out accusing the homosexual nurse Harun Demirtas of wanting to subject Denmark to Islam, and she stressed that despite his perfect Danish and voluntary work in the AIDS Fund and the Danish Nursing Council he does not deserve Danish citizenship. This makes me wonder whether it means nothing at all to New Citizens, whether they contribute to Danish society and thereby help to strengthen Danish values, as Harun Demirtas openly does. And doesn't Mrs Pernille Vermund think that such a type as Harun Demirtas will contribute much more to society than one... Should I finish? Yes! ) Sorry. In other words, he will not contribute more than, for example. a Christian from southern Germany who wants to ban homosexuality? Well, I'm just trying to equate...
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204320	Speaking time has come to an end and the rapporteur must now be allowed to reply. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204324	New citizens' politics are the way I told you before, and it is not changed by being gay. How people live in their private lives, they have to do it themselves. We are not saying that you cannot be in Denmark, that you cannot work here, that you cannot live here, if you feel that you support yourself and comply with our legislation and have a residence permit in advance. We are just saying that getting Danish citizenship is a gift and that it is a gift that politicians have given for years to too many and that they should not have given. So until foreign policy is under control, we need to put a stop to citizenship for the people who come from the countries with which we have these massive problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204405	Thank you. Then it is the questioner for the second round, and there are 30 seconds available. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204410	Last year, Mrs Pernille Vermund said that it was mainly people from Muslim countries who were to be excluded from Danish citizenship. Let me use myself as an example, because I think the rapporteur is talking a little bypass. I have fought my way from a closed society and out of spiritual poverty to today to fight for freedom, equality and democracy here in the Parliament, values that Mrs Pernille Vermund also upholds and celebrates. But I'm also a Muslim believer. Does Mrs Pernille Vermund think that I should not have had Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204448	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204450	I am probably of the opinion that if all the people who have come here had behaved properly and taken our values to heart, for example. Mrs Halime Oguz and others have done so we would not have had this discussion at all. When we have it now, it is because Mrs Halime Oguz and I think Mrs Halime Oguz know that is different, and that is wonderful. However, recognising that this is not the norm and that unfortunately too many people do not take our values into account and that it is completely impossible to explain, it is our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204535	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204539	Thank you. And thanks for one, I think, very good speech. I do not agree with everything, but I agree with something. The part about setting the unemployed more free, I thought was really exciting. And I'm really glad to hear that New Citizens will help create a right to early retirement for those who are worn out. So I thought there were many exciting perspectives. And then I just thought it was a good speech, so thank you for that. I would like to hear a little bit about children and New Citizens' children's politics. Mrs Mette Thiesen said earlier that New Citizens would like to give more rights to parents. In fact, we want to do so in one area too: we believe that it should be the right of parents to give children an extra year in kindergarten if the children need it. Today, the kindergarten class is compulsory, and it is up to the municipality to decide whether the children can change. So I would really like to know if New Citizens will be joining us just as it has been before just, I think, 8-9 years ago to give parents the right to decide if the children need an extra year in the sandbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204639	Yes, we will. We have the problem, also in the transition from day nurseries to kindergarten, now the integrated institutions, but from the 0-3 years old and then to the 3-6-year-olds, where the municipalities also have a little cash thinking, if you have to be a little strict, and move the children over where it is cheaper, but we also have the problem when the children are going to school. And it must be the case that it is the parents' children and therefore also the parents' right to assess whether or not the child is ready to go to school and also the parents' right to say no to having children moved up in a kindergarten where everything else equals less staff for the children than there is in the crèche, i.e. the 0-3-year-old area. So, yes, we will. It's our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204729	I'm really glad to hear that, and that's what I had a feeling about. So now I'm gonna go see if we can get more bourgeois parties on the wagon that red block has kind of put on the road. I have another short question, and it is quite fine if the rapporteur is not in the primary school material yet. However, we do have a debate on the training qualification assessment. Today it is almost a third of all children and young people who are not evaluated and get that stamp, and that means a lot to their self-confidence, they say. We would like to abolish the educational readiness assessment so that everyone is ready for something. What's New Citizen thinking about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204804	New citizens think two things. Firstly, we need to ensure that fewer children end up in this situation, that is to say that fewer children are after a 9th grade and do not have the choices they would like to have. So that is one part, that is to say, to prevent children from being in that situation. The second is that we are probably a little more consistent than you might be in the SF. We believe that there are many types of education that can be good and relevant to young people. It should not be the case that we cannot move forward in the education system, but not everyone should have a degree, for example. There are plenty of technical training that is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204845	The last question in the round here is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204851	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying to Alex Vanopslagh that there is a very big difference between us. Now he mentioned that it might be that tomorrow the Radicals had the same immigration and refugee policy as the New Citizen. I think I can reassure everyone that this is not the case. There will be a great difference, we have very different value-policy relationships with things. When I ask Pernille Vermund now, it hangs, among other things. together with the very topical debate on smoking. This is one of the areas where New Citizens have not identified themselves and where I find it difficult to see where New Citizens stand. Will New Citizens raise the price of tobacco? Will New Citizens do something to ensure that young people do not start smoking? And will New Citizens help those who want to get out of smoking to get out of smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204946	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003204947	New citizens do not want to raise taxes, even on cigarettes. We already pay too much money in Denmark in taxes and taxes; in Denmark we have the world's second highest tax burden, so raising taxes and taxes is not our policy. In order to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke, we as parents have a huge responsibility. I also think that, to the extent that more information can be provided, we should do so. In terms of getting people to stop smoking, I think that as long as it is children and young people under the age of 18, it is therefore the parents' responsibility. If you are an adult, you must take responsibility for your own life, and if you want to stop smoking but cannot, there is plenty of help to be found, either in all the smokers who have stopped and who can offer advice and guidance, or at various smoking cessation courses and booklets.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205043	Thanks for the answer, I'll say. There is a big difference between our positions in this matter. There is no doubt that we have the basic view that young people's smoking means that they have to raise the price significantly on tobacco. We have noticed that there is a proposal for 60 kroner, and that is probably what it ends up being. Basically, we believe that we must stop all smoking and that is why we must raise the price as high as possible. But I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205112	Does the rapporteur wish to speak in conclusion?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205115	Just briefly, I would like to say that I do not believe that we, as politicians, should dictate how the Danes should live their lives. If you are the parents of a child who smokes, you must take responsibility for that child or young child.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205127	Thank you to the rapporteur. This is how we got through all the questions, and I should like to invite the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003205141	Thank you. It is a very special and great honour for me to stand here on Parliament's platform for the first time in my life, where I shall give my first speech and even as party leader during Parliament's opening debate. I am very concerned about that, and I feel humble in that situation. I cannot exactly say that I am the party leader with the largest party behind him, but I can be consoled that now that the Left has replaced me in the chair, I am no longer the most inexperienced party leader. So if sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen needs advice from a more experienced party leader colleague, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen come to me safely. Denmark is our home, it is the place where we thrive and at which we feel obliged. Denmark is also the people we love, to whom we feel a special bond, yes, Denmark is something greater than ourselves. But one thing is not Denmark: Denmark is not an invention. When the Prime Minister claims such things, it is nonsense, because Denmark is no one's invention and certainly not the invention of social democracy. Denmark, on the other hand, is shaped by generation of hard-working people who have shown initiative and community mind and who have joined forces to create companies, associations and free schools and organisations that could create a better society, create the Denmark we know. The only reason the welfare state is still linked, that the bumblebee flies, is the Danes' attitude to life and their values. There are many who work, although it is not always worthwhile, and there are many who start up new companies just because they can't help themselves, and then many who get up early and do their best, even completely without anyone from the municipality asking them to. Denmark is created by our good civil values and our liberal traditions... our tradition of having the freedom to set in motion in the community and in the market, our tradition of being open and turning us towards the world and acting with it and our tradition of having strong citizens who, of their own free will and power, are something for each other. There must be a link between the values, that is to say our internal compass, and then the incentives, the rewards that are around us, because it is only in this way that the bumblebee can continue to fly, and therefore it is also imperative that we make it clear that the Danes must be something for each other and themselves before they are something for the Treasury. This is for me to see the main reason why we need lower taxes and more private welfare, because then we can spend more time with the people we care about. Instead of working the sun black for the high tax burden, we can afford private welfare, where there may be opportunities for a well-deserved family journey and where there is an opportunity to send your children to a free school. When the Prime Minister talks about welfare first, it is, after all, the welfare of the Prime Minister, the welfare of the system, not the welfare of oneself. And unfortunately, it is not a matter of course that system welfare is doing well. It made a pretty big impression on me the other day when I was out visiting a single mother on cash aid, and I have since tried to raise a debate about what I saw, what I call spiritual poverty, that is, the poverty where you can afford smartphones, smokes and sunshades, but do not have the courage to get back into life. And here slogans of right and duty, something for something, or just pull yourself together, not at all. For it can all be very abstract for those who feel no duty, for those who do not feel there is anything to get, or for those who have nothing to take care of. Once the system has made you addicted and passive, it can be difficult to get back to life again. If you've never known the joy of having a responsibility, it's your business to know that you just have to pull yourself together. Once trapped in the spiritual poverty trap, it takes something very special to get away. There the materialist left has a little too long had a hard eye on the money and forgotten what it is that matters to us people, namely that we have the courage to live and that there is hope, initiative and plans for the future. Unfortunately, the price of the relatively high benefits, the generous help from the system, is that there is a system that allows itself to whip people around the chain and make people on the edge of society more discouraged. I think we need to move in a different direction, to use a modern and gradually consumed expression, we need to have a paradigm shift.• employment efforts must be rethinked towards lower benefits, yes, preserved, but also greater involvement of civil society, more carrots, more encouragement. Indeed, I think that we should be better able to encourage each other, encourage each other to take responsibility, to do the right thing and to appreciate the values that bear it all in our wonderful society. We are in a situation where the state is getting bigger and bigger because we insist on feeding it with new tasks every time the citizens experience the slightest problem. The consequence is that the Danes expect both the extent of the service, but also the level of service is growing and growing.I think we can all feel that in here, but their disappointments are also growing when they realize that expectations cannot be met. Bless you! There we must be careful that we do not end up in a situation where we gradually forget our inherent power to change life for the better and our own opportunities to cooperate and create solutions to our challenges. After all, that is what we have been doing for decades, and I can even see that there is cross-party cooperation to help with sneeze and the like, and that very well underlines the point. We find ourselves in the rather strange paradox that no more money has ever been spent on welfare, and supposedly there has never been so much money left for welfare. Because even though the public sector is marinated in money, we still hear about citizens who cannot get the police out when there is break-in and assault. We are still hearing about nursing homes with vacuum-packed food and one weekly bath and about children who tragically fail in some of the country's most expensive day care facilities, while never more money has been spent in the public sector. That is why I would actually like to agree with the Prime Minister. For the Prime Minister himself said on Tuesday that the increased billions for welfare would not be felt by the Danes in everyday life, that you could not just solve this with more money, and I think that was actually a brave announcement from the Prime Minister. I have rarely seen such a correct diagnosis combined with such a wrong cure, for the cure seems to be the same as it has been given to the welfare state since my father was wretched: send more money, find new taxes, higher costs, higher taxes. But if the disease is that welfare is true in bureaucracy and rigid rules and lack of innovation, then the cure is more freedom, more competition, more liberal politics. More freedom must be given to citizens and to welfare institutions. After all, it must be up to the employees and the managers of the individual schools and nursing homes and the individual day care centres to find out how best to fit in without bureaucracy and restrictive rules. Then I think that citizens must have much more influence, and citizens can give influence through free elections, to freely choose on all well-being shelves, both in public and in private. Because it doesn't matter what color the cat is, just it catches mice. With freedom, of course, there is also some responsibility and consequences. That is actually what goes in and replaces bureaucracy somewhere. So if there is a day-care institution that leaves children crying for hours alone, then it must shut down and turn off and make room for something new and something better when citizens choose it from, and then we can also ensure that the well-run institutions are better rewarded. Therefore, it must never become an end in itself that welfare is provided only by the public. Because we always agree that monopolies are bad when they are private, and that also applies, of course, to the public. I think we must have the courage to let the public sector go completely, we must dare to give citizens more responsibility, more freedom, because their knowledge, of course, goes far beyond ours when it comes to what is best for them. A former chairman of the Social Democratic Party asked at the time: can we not do it a little better? A little better at imitating Poul Nyrup Rasmussen I can certainly stay, but the good news is that yes, we can do much better. For Denmark is a lovely country with good civil values and lovely liberal traditions, and one should not be afraid to leave more responsibility to such a society. On the contrary, it is probably more necessary for the future to be full of opportunities, prosperity, well-being and better welfare. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210141	I would also like to thank the rapporteur, who is able, in his debut, to hit the speaking time per second. Congratulations. Then comes the line of questioners, and the first to speak is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210158	Thank you. And congratulations, sir. Alex Vanopslagh with the first speech from the platform. I think the rapporteur did well to do that. Many things were mentioned from the platform, and I would like to ask about one of the things that was not mentioned in the speech, namely the climate. All of Parliament's parties, including the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party and today we have also been told that the Left is backing a 70% CO2 which is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that this is also what the Liberal Alliance is doing, i.e. supporting a 70-percent reduction in 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210238	Absolutely. I can confirm that. I think it is natural that Denmark, which is a rich country and has surpluses, should also have a surplus to do the right things, including reducing its CO2 for us, the funds are more important than the target, and it is important that we do things in the right way, where it does not cost jobs, where you not only push CO2 I would actually also like to admit that I would rather Denmark reach 67 per cent, and then it is in a way where there is not a single tonne of CO2 so the funds are the important thing, but of course we share the objective too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210325	Thank you. At least I hear some green tones, and it's really, really, really nice. The Liberal Alliance proposed a green climate fund before the election campaign, which is why I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he can support our vision of earmarking a billion kroner for green research. This is a little in line with what the Liberal Alliance proposed before the elections. So it could be really nice to confirm that you want to back at least that part of our Finance Act, which is about earmarking a billion kroner for research.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210358	Yes, even if the Social Democracy only reaches a quarter of the ambitions of the Liberal Alliance in relation to the amount of money that will be allocated to the area, that is, of course, something that we fully support. We think this is the right way to go, and we would like to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210413	Thank you. Did Mr. Tommy Ahlers marked? No, it's a mistake. Okay, then the next questioner to speak is Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210428	First of all, thank you for a strong speech. I think it is refreshing and straight out of the bag, and there are many things I agree with on a long stretch, not least the need to ensure that the ideals of freedom on which our society is based are strengthened as far as possible. I would like to start somewhere else, namely with the question of what really guarantees real equality of opportunity. And there I may think that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh forgets a little that it is also in Denmark that the community does. When you point to the free schools and the desire to maintain a high subsidy, it is hardly private welfare. After all, it is a public subsidy that makes it possible. I would like to ask you about this child condition, that is, when children are affected by very low benefits. We can see in the research that just living in this relative poverty, which is after Danish terms, means something to the social relationship, for illness later in life. That is why I would just like to say: could we not consider again whether those who live on the lowest benefits really do not need the Community's hand in the back in order to have real equal opportunities and therefore freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210540	But that's what they're gonna get. When we had the ceiling for cash benefits, a single mother with two children received DKK 15,000. paid out. It's not poverty. In other words, what is poverty is the kind of spiritual thing where children grow up with parents who do not go to work and who have made themselves into those who have become accustomed to inaction, thus becoming dependent on the system. It's a tragedy. Speaking of studies, there are also a lot of studies that show that yes, there may be some harmful consequences in growing up in low-income families, but if your parents have had a job, also a low-income job at the level of cash benefits, then the likelihood of breaking the negative social heritage is over twice as great. It shows, of course, that it is not about the level of benefits, but that it is about having some good models, that one is strong in spirit, that one has a value-based basis, one is trying to improve one's own basis of life from. And having such a one-eyed focus on the money, I don't think it helps bring children out of spiritual poverty, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210642	So what is said, in the kingdom of the blind, is the one - eyed king, or whatever to say. I have some doubts about who's one-eyed here. For I am saying precisely that the blind focus that has been on reducing benefits has created poverty, relative poverty, which you can at least see is harmful to those children when they grow up and for the rest of their lives. Scientists can prove that. And if it's, like, sir... Alex Vanopslagh here says that, and I agree with that, it is not the benefits that determine it, but it is the effort, it is the demands we make. Why, then, do we not focus more on it instead of taking the risk, it is just with low services to leave the individual to himself and thus risk the harm?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210727	I cannot, of course, refer a question back to the questioner, but I wonder whether the questioner thinks that it is the low benefits that are the problem or whether it is the unemployment that is the problem. Well, it's not the low performance in itself that's a problem. We've tried higher benefits. It has not, of course, made us better at breaking the negative social heritage in the past. So I find it difficult to see the coherence of what the rapporteur says. But yes, I completely agree that a one-eyed focus on services and on too many tough demands and too much whip I don't think helps people any further. Carrots and more encouragement are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210759	The next question is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210803	Thank you very much for that and I would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on both the election and the speech. Well, I can read that mr. Alex Vanopslagh has also noticed that several young people are miserable and squeezed into our education system. One in three high school students feels stressed in everyday life, and high school students are generally as pressured as they are 20 per cent. Mostly pressured adults. Today, young people are growing up in a society where they are expected to perform constantly. They are constantly measured and weighed with grades and national tests entirely from the small classes. We have created an education system where there is no room for error or stumbling. Educational ceilings, character walls, progress reform and constant focus on grades are pushing young people. We in the SF would like to look at both the admission system and the amount of characters that young people get in the education system. Will the Liberal Alliance be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003210905	No, that's the short answer. We don't have a performance society when you can pass mathematics B in high school at 70%. wrong answers. It's a bit of a wasted cliché that's not very well documented. I believe, rather, that it is a theory, an analysis, and I would like to stress that it is in fact a lack of demands and a lack of frameworks that has made young people more pressured today. For today the only requirement that is now left is the grades, and then there is the demand that we realise ourselves and be happy. And a demand for well - being and happiness is almost impossible to meet. I think that makes the young miserable, that is, the left has been told for decades that it doesn't matter what you do, because you just have to be happy, and you have to realize yourself. It is an unreasonable requirement for young people. It is not an unreasonable requirement to say that you should be skillful, that you should make an effort, and that you should also improve in relation to grades at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211004	So the rapporteur does not recognise that, while young people in Denmark have gone from being some of the happiest to being some of the most unhappy, we have had one reform after another that is pushing young people more and more. I am surprised that the Liberal Alliance will not take responsibility for the fact that we have a whole generation of young people who feel unhappy. We can see that the Liberal Alliance places much of the responsibility on the young person himself, although we can see that the distrust among young people is so massive and widespread and not only found among a few in universities that the Liberal Alliance may not like.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211046	That was a long line of strawmen. If you do not know what a strawman is, it is, of course, that you put your political opponent's positions in the shoes that he does not have, and then you put your positions down afterwards. I think we should rise above that level. I just stood by and said, yes, there's a distrust among the young. I think it comes from the fact that we are making the wrong demands, the impossible demands, rather than the tangible demands of skilling, making an effort and being a good person, instead of striving for some impossible definition of happiness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211118	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211124	Thank you for the floor, and welcome to. It's exciting to go together, now in the Assembly Hall. There are, of course, some issues on which I share some perspectives with the rapporteur. I would therefore like to hear a little more about the rapporteur's position. Because as far as people are not supposed to sound so stupid that they have to be parked as if it were some car parked in the cash assistance system, but that, as a human being, you should not get into trouble if you are hit by unemployment or illness, so that you should not be so long in the cash assistance system, I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on the proposal that we in the Enhedslist have made to the financial law negotiations on the guarantee of clarification. It is a matter of simply ensuring that people do not get stuck in the cash aid system, but that within at least the maximum. One year, longest, and if there are now some particular reasons about illness then 2 years, have the right to a clarification where you are then searched for ordinary work, rehabilitation, flex jobs, early retirement or the like. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211234	I think that sounds like an exciting proposal, and I would like to take this constructively. And then we'll have to talk further in the appropriate forums.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211248	Now the rapporteur says it is an exciting proposal, but I would like to hear what else the Liberal Alliance thinks can be done to help some of the people who are currently in a mess with the cash aid system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211306	Now I will try to put it briefly in 20 seconds, I would have almost said. I think you have to divide it into two. There are those who are resourceful and who must be far more left alone. If we take something like the benefit recipients, I think it is better with a model where the daily allowance is reduced after 1⁄2 years, and then people have a natural incentive to get to work, and then they don't have to show up for all kinds of courses and meetings at the job center. And then there is the group of citizens who have been stuck for years. There I think we should move the task away from the municipalities, away from the job centres, and look at how we can involve some organisations in civil society that meet people at eye level and focus on human efforts and not so much on visitation and rules and paragraphs and complex processing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211344	The next question is Mr. Per Larsen from Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211348	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the President of the Party and the election of the rapporteur. Neither the Liberal Alliance nor we in the Conservative People's Party love new taxes and taxes. However, we in the Conservative People's Party have put forward a proposal to increase the price of cigarettes quite considerably, because we know that smoking is extremely harmful. It is the case that between 13,000 and 14,000 people die every year here in Denmark of tobacco-related diseases. We also know that the number of daily smokers is growing in Denmark as opposed to in so many other countries where it falls. We also know that 40 children start smoking every day. The fight against cancer has, of course, pointed out that it would be extremely beneficial to reduce the number of children starting with smoking, to raise cigarette prices significantly. Officials from the Ministry of Health have also documented that raising cigarette prices has an enormous effect. So I have a question: does the Liberal Alliance not believe that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that as few children as possible start smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211503	I believe that the best way to get there, among other things. is the one used in Germany. There we have entered the primary school and taught without scaremongering, but this is very factual and nuanced about the consequences of smoking and about addictive smoking. This has helped to reduce the number of young smokers in Germany. When I find it a little difficult to turn up the price of a cigarette pack too high, it is also because it is going to hit, I had almost said old Mrs Hansen at the nursing home, who has smoked all her life. You know the story. There is no reason for me to repeat it. I can tell you another story instead. It was someone I was always told when I was a kid. It's about a man who goes to the doctor. And then he says to the doctor: I want to be 100 years old. Well, okay, but it's very easy. Do you smoke? No. Do you drink alcohol? No. Are you chasing ladies? No, it's not me. Well, then why do they want to be 100 years old? I think that somewhere else we should also remember that it is not always only healthy life that is the good life.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211604	In fact, this disappoints me a little, because with the knowledge we have today, we know that tobacco smoking is simply really unfortunate and very lethal, and it puts a strain on our health services to a great extent, so it would be a huge advantage if we could reduce the number of smokers. So I am thinking: were there any other means than the good intentions that the Liberal Alliance could resort to in terms of reducing the number of smokers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211633	Yes, what I told you about at the beginning of my last answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211642	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211646	Thank you for that, and a heartfelt congratulations, for who would have thought that the two of us would stand here and that I should be asking the President of the Liberal Alliance a question. But I have to, and I'm happy to. Back in 2014, the then leader of the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Anders Samuelsen: Photographily speaking, they must be turned around at the airport, into a plane and into a refugee camp near where they came from. This is therefore the equivalent of a complete asylum freeze. That's what the Liberal Alliance said in 2014. Then came a small period, which we leave behind, and now we are here in 2019, and I would like to ask about the position of the Liberal Alliance: is it still the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211739	Yeah, that's it, and I'm proud that we were the first to make that move. Then New Citizens, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party followed suit, and this is one of the areas where I cheer almost daily at the Prime Minister's efforts to change the asylum system through international cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211803	I'm glad to hear that. Perhaps I would just like to confirm that this also applies to the Liberal Alliance in a future government, or whether this time it is only as an opposition party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211818	This is also the case in a future government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211823	The next question is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211827	Thank you for that, and congratulations to the rapporteur both for the election and for the new office as party leader and congratulations on the first speech from the Parliamentary Chair. In fact, before the parliamentary elections, the rapporteur's party was in government, and one of the things that filled a lot during that reign was the discussion about top tax. And the rapporteur's predecessor climbed into the trees, some said, crawling down again with the demand for top tax relief. The Left then went to elections to free themselves from the bourgeois parties, but now we have to understand that the Left has found them and wants to form a government with the bourgeois parties and, therefore, the rapporteur's party. So my question is this: if one day we should be faced with the fact that once again there is a bourgeois majority which includes the rapporteur's party, does this also include the ultimate demands of a Left Government for top tax relief? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211923	No, it won't be my management style. I have also understood the election speech, where some thought that we were a little too intransigent with our claim to the 5%, while others thought that we were too cheap for sale. That's where I'm marking a new time. The Liberal Alliance isn't like that anymore. Perhaps one might say that we are even cheaper for sale • almost rudely cheap for sale, at least during this parliamentary term. I think if the red government just lowers the top tax by 4%, we're gonna do the worst.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003211959	It's noted. I do not think that will be the case without me drawing the whole line. Will the rapporteur not only reveal what will stand on the block of demands for a possible future bourgeois government that the rapporteur's party will demand to support a Left Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212022	But listen, we have a red government. We have that for the next four years. The Liberal Alliance has just survived a choice and lies around the threshold, and then the questioner will spend time on a hypothetical situation if LA should have grown bigger and there should be a blue majority! I can assure the questioner that this is not something I want to waste time on in this Chamber. But I will be clear on the question put by the questioner before the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212050	The next question is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212053	Thank you for the floor, President. Congratulations, sir. Alex Vanopslagh with the debut on the platform, and congratulations on the fine election for Mr. Alex Vanopslagh personally, and congratulations on the presidency of the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh says that now there's a new style. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh says that's not how the Liberal Alliance is anymore. And that's why I'd really like to, if not sir. Alex Vanopslagh could confirm or deny whether, together in the next parliamentary term, we will spend a little more time planting trees and a little less time climbing trees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212137	It's a really cheerful night. I think I have indirectly answered the questioner by answering one of the other questions. But I would also like to remind you that the advantage of the Liberal Alliance climbing high in the tree was that we ended up in a government with the Left, and then the Left has also tried to be in a government with liberal politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212204	Thank you. And we'll have to see if that ever happens again. Now that we are talking about the greens and the trees, I would really like to ask the rapporteur the following question: does the rapporteur agree that at some point there may be a situation where those in government in Denmark will have to prioritise between public spending or ambitious climate initiatives, and where will we find the Liberal Alliance in that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212235	I kind of miss a third road called top tax relief, but don't worry! No, as I also expressed to Mrs Pernille Skipper earlier, it is also a concern that I share, or rather a prediction that I also have, and should the Liberal Alliance end up in such a situation, we would much rather contribute to the fact that we in Denmark are ambitious in the green transition rather than just making welfare more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212301	The next Member who can put questions to the rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212309	Thank you. And congratulations on the debut. I note that in his speech the rapporteur spoke about values of responsibility and how important it is for each of us to go to work and do our duty and do our duty. And I totally agree, but then maybe agreement ends there too. Because precisely when we talk about going to work, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees that today, politically speaking, we do not have enough answers to the group of people who are being worn out of work and who, at some point before they reach retirement age, are no longer able to go to work, and that is probably true of many people. Do we have good enough answers for that group of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212357	Well, I agree with the questioner that we do not have enough answers until the agreement on senior pensions, such as the one on retirement pensions, is concluded. The Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the then government and the Danish People's Party made, are being implemented and enter into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212414	Thanks for the answer, though it was a short one. After all, I can read that the Liberal Alliance will raise the retirement age by one year as early as 2030 and will abolish the post-retirement wage and will also remove the end-of-day allowance, all of which, for me, will go in the wrong direction and will create greater inequality, and which is certainly not an answer: abolishing the post-retirement wage and raising the retirement age from 2030 to the group of people who get tired of going to work. So I just want to ask how the Liberal Alliance is planning this group of people to have a worthy withdrawal from the labour market. How?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212506	Let me first confirm that yes, in the Liberal Alliance we are proud and happy. It is a party that is ambitious in relation to the reform agenda, also in relation to ensuring that there are more hands and wise heads on the Danish labour market. In relation to the group that is worn out, an excellent agreement has been made in the last period on a new senior pension, and as soon as it enters into force, it will be Arne's turn at long last.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212535	The next question is Mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212539	Congratulations, sir. Alex Vanopslagh with both the election and the chair. It's so nice to have such an experienced party leader... I feel completely safe. It's also nice to have this positive liberalism that you can feel pouring from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's speech and a positive liberalism that not only focuses on money and taxes, but also focuses on the spiritual, because we also need that, and that is also liberalism. I would like to ask about what has been asked about young people in the past, i.e. that fortunately it is not a whole vintage that is miserable, but that it is a little too large a share, 20-30 per cent, that is stressed. And that's where I share sir. Alex Vanopslagh's comment that we would like to have a culture of performance, where you try, yes, you can strive, but that the culture of perfection we must have a fight with. If the new Minister for Education and Research is now as clever as the former Minister for Education and Research to propose a new admission system, where we are not only looking at grades, but opening up to look at some other things that can create more reflection in a youth year, and opening up that it is not crucial exactly what grades you have at a certain point in your life, is the Liberal Alliance willing to look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212653	I am sure that we will enter into the negotiations constructively. And although we share analysis and opinions, I would say that where I think things are going wrong, it is said again that it is the character system that is the problem. But I don't think it is. After all, it is not that we give characters to people for their performance that is a problem. The problem is that we have a society in which we no longer have the same framework and the same expectations for young people that they should make an effort, that they should equip themselves and that they should become good people and be something for others. But they have been led to believe that they must realize themselves and be happy, and I think that they will be unhappy, because it is simply an unreasonable requirement for young people. And it doesn't have much to do with the character system; that is, it's just a symptom. Because when you have such an inner emptiness, you need to focus on the outer symbols... it can be likes on Instagram, it can be nice speeches on a platform, or it can be good characters on the character page.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212755	If we now put the assumption into this, that it is not about the character system, but about how we use grades, and if we would try to see whether there were other objective criteria to which we could put emphasis, in terms of the inclusion of young people in our higher education, that would do Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's attitude a little clearer and a little more positive?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212815	It may well be. I will leave that to our education rapporteur in confidence. Sir. Henrik Dahl is far more competent in this area than I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212829	The next question in the line is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212834	It was incredibly gratifying to hear the rapporteur talk about not purely material challenges, but also spiritual poverty, which is spreading in large parts of society. Therefore, it would also be nice if we could get some suggestions as to what we can do to solve the problem, for example. by strengthening family life. Would the Liberal Alliance take part in one of the ideas put forward by the Danish People's Party to make it easier for a spouse to go home and care for the children and thus have a greater share in the upbringing and give the young people a strengthened family life to live with, rather than being institutionalised all the way through? Could it be imagined that spiritual poverty could be combated in primary school also with liberalist support for example? to get more morning songs, more focus on Danish literature, Danish history, an increased emphasis on discipline towards unvored students, etc.? Could we basically have some more concrete proposals on what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh imagines that can be done to improve spiritual education in the homeland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003212936	I certainly believe that an increased focus on education in primary school is one of the important things. What songs should they sing in the morning, I don't think I should interfere with, because I just gave a speech about the importance of leaving more to society in the welfare field too. But definitely a yes to that more focus on education in primary school is one of the answers. Now it is late in the evening, and although I am a young and fresh man, I have actually forgotten the questioner's first question. I know I had a very clever and good answer to that, so perhaps the questioner can repeat the first part of his question which I have repressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213018	That's what we're trying to do. I'll give the questioner the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213020	It's in relation to the family. I believe that this is a core bourgeois value and that the family must be strengthened in the face of public institutionalisation. Today we have heard one speaker and one rapporteur after another speak of Denmark as a welfare society, as a function, but Denmark is much more than that. Denmark is first and foremost a homeland. It's the Danes' homeland. And that's where the family starts. So what kind of suggestions does Mr. Alex Vanopslagh to ensure that the family thus becomes the core and starting point of the spiritual armor he is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213054	After all, we are comfortable with, and it is part of our policy that the money that you get to send your children to crèche should also be available as a subsidy if you go home. But that is not what is proposed by the Danish People's Party. That's how you get 100 percent. cash benefits for going home. And I think that will contribute to spiritual poverty, because it will keep people away from the labour market. That may be my concern. But I rather see that the solution is that the money follows the citizen and that, by the way, we lower the tax. That is also part of the solution, because the lowering of taxes means that it is easier to take time off from work and part-time without affecting the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213134	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213139	Thanks for the speech. I look forward to a good collaboration on a lot of Freedom Days, where I have experienced in the last four years that I have been able to work with the Liberal Alliance, especially in the field of education. I hope we can continue to do so. And it is also about children and school that I would like to ask, in fact, the same question that I asked Mrs Pernille Vermund, namely about the right of children to stay an extra year in kindergarten if they need it. It was decided that it was in 2009 to make the kindergarten class compulsory, and before that it had been the parents' choice if you wanted your child to go 1 year extra in kindergarten. Since the rules have been changed, the number of children who are delayed in school has been halved, probably because the municipalities think in economic terms and it is cheaper to send the child earlier. Was it not a liberal matter to give the parents the freedom back and say that if the parents, in consultation with the educators and the school leader, consider that an extra year is good, then it is the right of the parents to decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213240	So, without knowing the concrete background to the decisions that have been made, it might sound like sweet music in my ears. But I have a little to know about the history and the reasons why the political choices that have been made have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213300	The story has certainly been that there have been some decision-makers who have not had a liberal mind. And now that there is a new liberal majority in the field of education, I look forward to a lot of cooperation, among other things. About this. For there the new majority has decided that the opportunity to give parents an extra year in kindergarten to the child will be explored. But we will need the support of the conciliation circle, so I am simply looking for it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213328	We go further in the line of questioners, and the next person to speak for questions is Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213340	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh earlier today was very concerned about where Enhedslisten's limit went for the increase in inequality defined as the Gini coefficient. And of course he was given the answer that Enhedslisten is concerned with the living conditions of specific people: whether there are real deteriorations in, for example. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2012 and subsequent years under the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2012 and the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2014. etc. I would like to ask the other way round whether there is any limit at all to the extent of the inequality for the Liberal Alliance. For example: The conditions that we know about them in the United States are unacceptable, where you pay for your education, where you pay for hospital care, where you personally insure against disease, and where there is no real welfare system. For example, is it... acceptable conditions for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213444	I do not know a single liberal who has the American model of society as a model. I haven't met a single one. I have met a lot of socialists who claim that liberals have the American model of society as a model, but I have not yet met a single liberal who thinks so, or liberal, as one might call it in here. Rather, it is a model such as that of Switzerland, which may be a model. And what the Liberal Alliance is fighting for in Denmark is that we go from having a welfare state to having a welfare society where there is still equal access to education, to care, to care and to health, but where it can be provided more by both private and public. And in relation to inequality: Well, the tiny bit of inequality we have here in Denmark is caused by people's performance, and it is a healthy inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213535	So there are limits to how much inequality can become even for the Liberal Alliance. And I could also ask how far down can be, for example. the amount available to a cash benefit recipient come before it becomes unacceptable even for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213557	It can easily come back to the old level, which was below the cash aid ceiling, and perhaps even a little further down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213606	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213613	Thank you for the floor. And once again congratulations on the new title as President and on the debut here on the platform. In the last reign, the Liberal Alliance celebrated tax concessions with champagne. But now I understand that new forces have come into the Liberal Alliance and that carrots are also being talked about in the Liberal Alliance. Nevertheless, I have some doubts; I have to say that the Liberal Alliance does not seem to have entirely changed its course in tax policy. In any case, the party's 2030 plan states that tax concessions and a negative increase in public consumption have been announced, which will actually mean 52,000 fewer public employees. So I would just like to say a few words: can we expect the Liberal Alliance to maintain the political line, that is to say that we are prepared to abolish the equivalent of 52 000 posts in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213708	I think the questioner is switching figures. I think it was about 250,000 jobs that would be created. There wouldn't be smoking 200,000 jobs out of the public sector. Of course, we stand by having a society of growth and prosperity with lower taxes because it is healthy. It gives better opportunities for the Danes to be something for each other instead of working, as I said in the speech, the sun black for the high tax burden. And then I feel that I am absolutely convinced that money can easily be saved in the public sector. Take such things as the social area. There the National Audit Office has said that we are spending 45 billion. kr. every year on pools that we can't document any effect of. It's just one area you can address. The 20 billion. kr. we spend every year on business support is another area we can address. And I haven't even mentioned all the journalists who are out in the municipalities, or the municipalities that have municipal gyms, luminous benches, and I'm gonna come after you. The public sector is marinated in money and it would be healthy if a little savings were to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213813	I am now quite sure that I am not trading anything, because I can see in the 2030 plan of the Liberal Alliance, which I am dealing with here, that we are counting on a saving in public spending of 51 billion. kr., and that is quite fine to 52,000 employees, but leave it at that. I can sometimes doubt whether we are moving in the very same world, the Liberal Alliance and I. Because when I come out and greet people at care centres, kindergartens, hospitals and housing units for people with physical and mental disabilities, I actually find that there are too few employees to create this safe daily life that is necessary for citizens. But now I can also hear the rapporteur saying in his speech that the citizens have too high expectations. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he can tell us where these many savings are actually going to be made (First Vice-President Thank you!) because they can only be found on wages?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213905	It is the rapporteur who has to answer now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213907	52,000 sounds like a more real number. I heard it as 250,000, and then I was going to say it was a little violent anyway, even for the Liberal Alliance. I really think the Prime Minister said it well on Tuesday: more money alone is not the solution. There is also too much bureaucracy, too much project welfare and too much pseudo-work. And that is what we need to address. So I hope that the questioner will support his Prime Minister, because the Liberal Alliance is doing so in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213939	The next person to speak is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003213943	Thank you. I'd like to congratulate you on LA's new paradigm shift. For 4, yes, almost eight years, we've heard that if we whip them on cash benefits and the others, they'll probably find a job for themselves. When Mr. Alex Vanopslagh's colleagues talked nicely about them, they said they would probably be inspired to do so. But otherwise it was just what needed to be done. Now we need a little more carrots, and I certainly recommend that. And when it is not the low benefits in themselves that are a problem, I would certainly recommend that we set up the benefits. For the people who live the lives while waiting for a job should also be able to survive and give their children the experiences that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh talks about so much. Free choice on all well-being shelves costs something, and either you have to have some money in your pocket, or the public has to step in and help. And that's why I'd like to congratulate you on the paradigm shift.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214048	I wish I could say likewise and congratulate Enhedslisten on a paradigm change, but I can't. I can hear that Enhedslisten is stuck in the same old rhetoric that it is higher benefits that are the answer to everything, and I think it is too one-eyed and materialistic focus. And we have, of course, followed that recipe, and there we had even more people parked on passive support in our system than we have today, so Enhedslisten's policy has just led to even more spiritual poverty than the Liberal Alliance has.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214124	I don't think there was much answer to that. The second part of Liberal Alliance's old policy was that if carrots were used against them at the top, it worked, but under no circumstances should the whip be used. Is there a paradigm shift going there, too? I mean, we have now seen in the last period that we have had VAT carousels, we have had money laundering and we have had tax havens in a very large format. Isn't it time we used a whip to the most greedy people in this society who think it's all gonna end up in their own pockets?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214203	I do not think that the questioner has at any time understood the policy of the Liberal Alliance. And it's okay. We have also always advocated more carrots for those with low incomes, for those who move from public support to self-sufficiency. We have suggested that the first DKK 7,000. at the bottom must be tax-free and that the benefits must be lower, and then there is a bigger carrot coming into work, just as there is a bigger carrot by working 1 hour more when paying top tax. It's exactly the same mechanism. It is fantastic that when you are elected as a liberal politician to the Folketing, you hope to talk about liberal politics, but half the time you have to spend teaching people from the Enhedslisten in economics, but I am happy to take on the role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214242	The next person to speak is Mr. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214247	I know it's late, so maybe this question could get in a little off in the conversation we've been having. However, first of all, I would like to commend the fact that the rapporteur in the media has raised the debate that poverty can have many faces, i.e. cultural poverty, spiritual poverty, economic poverty. But then I notice tonight that the rapporteur uses the concept of spiritual poverty over and over again. Could I have a definition of spiritual poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214325	Well, I actually tried to describe it in my speech, but it's the poverty where you've lost the courage to come back to life. I mean, if I was based on the actual single mother on cash benefits I visited, she would have given up. She didn't believe she could stop playing online casino games. She didn't believe she could find an apartment that was cheaper, because the municipality had to deal with that. She didn't believe that she could take an education where she could find a job she could take care of even if she had a backache. She didn't believe that she could give her son a better future unless the public gave her some more money. I think it is spiritual poverty that one has given up in this way in relation to one's being able to change one's own life situation. That's sad. That is where I think it would be, not rude, but wrong of me as a citizen, if my only answer was: pull yourself together. Because I could see that there was a human being with me who was having a hard time pulling himself together and who didn't know the joy of having a responsibility. That is where I think we need to rethink the employment effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214427	I am very pleased with that answer. At least it's a completely different place from what we heard from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, as such defined formation as a counterpart to spiritual poverty, in that we have to learn something specific in school, that we have to be family in a certain way, that we have to understand the country in a certain way, that we have to sing the right songs in a certain way. I hear that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is in a completely different place. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214458	I'm gonna share sir. Morten Messerschmidt's wish that there should be a focus on education and on what it means to be a citizen of Denmark. I don't think I'm gonna share sir. Morten Messerschmidt's solution on certain types of songs in primary school or certain ways of being a family. But what is tragic today in relation to family policy is that it is difficult, if you want to spend more time with your children, to go down part-time for a short time while the children are young. It's hard to do it, for example. Because of the high taxes. It is a restriction on our freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214532	The next question is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214537	Thank you. And a big congratulations to Alex Vanopslagh. It has now become late, and I would therefore like to ask for a few specific answers. It seems that the Liberal Alliance has had an internal discussion about whether the various interventions in the area of personal freedom before the elections went too far. Has a conclusion been reached? And can the rapporteur tell me whether the Liberal Alliance believes that the burka law went too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214610	One of the sad things about being in politics is that you can feel that you have said some things many times to many media, including that it was wrong that we voted in favour of the burka ban, and then discover that the vast majority of Danes, even Danes sitting in the Folketing, have not discovered it. In fact, I personally believe that one of the greatest homework for good and bad is that one really has to repeat the messages many times in order to be sure that everyone has understood them. And that is certainly not condescending; it was just a recital. The answer is yes, because we want a strict foreign policy, and we believe that we should be able to talk about the problems of people coming here, especially from the Middle East and North Africa, with values and a culture that does not exactly rhyme with liberalism, democracy and equality, but the solution is not a whole range of symbolic policy measures. In other words, the challenges are not taken sufficiently seriously. And somewhere I think that if you take the challenges seriously, you have to come up with solutions to the problems and not with symbolic policy that helps to share and create popularity in particular places.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214716	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214717	Another intervention, such as the educational ceiling, which the Liberal Alliance's Henrik Dahl in a way almost made his own case, is also something that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh thinks you've gone too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214736	The Liberal Alliance went to the polls to abolish the education ceiling. So, we are not the ones who are advocating this socialist competitive state mentality that citizens must run faster and faster in order to make profits to the state treasury. I assume that the questioner may rather be thinking about absenteeism, but perhaps the questioner himself can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214800	This gave all the authors the floor, because the time has passed. So thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I should also like to welcome the next rapporteur, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Welcome to the platform, and there are 10 minutes to the rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003214821	Thank you very much. First of all, a very great congratulations to all elected members of parliament and to the new government, not least to Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen. Together, we in the Folketing are the sum of democracy, and it is binding. From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we are delighted to look forward to cooperation and to relaunching another parliamentary term. There are many things we could use this opening speech to talk about: it could be Trump's offer to buy Greenland; it could be climate; it could be the security policy situation in the Arctic; Russia; China; it could also be the need for sustainable economic development in Greenland. These are all things which are very close to our hearts and which we will also spend the next four years working for. But there is one thing that is very close to Inuit Ataqatigiit and that overshadows all the other things. This is the foundation for Greenland's future: our children and young people. Personally, I was also really touched when the Prime Minister mentioned in his opening speech a joint effort for vulnerable children and young people in Greenland, because it is so infinitely important, and from here we must be very grateful. The question is: Is Greenland a safe place to be a child? If you look at the numbers, they paint a dark picture. In Tasiilaq, every second child has a social case in the municipality, every third child has been subjected to sexual assault, and every five inhabitants of Tasiilaq die of suicide. Unfortunately, the problems are not unique to Tasiilaq; they are also found in many other places around Greenland. Recently I spoke to a colleague here in the Danish Parliament who looked at me with a worried eye and said: in Denmark things are going well, in the Faroe Islands things are going well, in Greenland things are not going well. The social area is Greenland's responsibility, but in the spring the Naala Suisut was pressured by various parties, among others. IA, to ask Denmark for help, because we have had to acknowledge that a boost in the social area has to be made with help from outside and in even stronger coordination with Denmark. This is a very important recognition for Greenlandic society. In the Folketing and with the government, we now have an opportunity to change the course of history, and this obliges not only in Greenland but also for those of us who are sitting in this Chamber today. We have a responsibility to tackle together the great work of ensuring our children and young people in Greenland an even safer upbringing. Here we are pleased that the debate on children at risk points towards more ambitious solutions than we have ever seen before. When we live in a country where children as young as three years of age are infected with venereal disease, or where 81 per cent. If the women in Tasiilaq experience sexual abuse, then we have a fundamental problem. It is important that we wake up and that we realise the seriousness of the situation and, above all, that we use this extraordinary help from Denmark to address the root of the problems. Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has said in the past that a society must be measured by how to treat those who are worst. I couldn't agree more. In my mind there is no doubt that the aid to children subjected to abuse should be among the noblest purposes that we in the Folketing can support. On the part of the IA, we believe that this is a serious disaster and that it should therefore also be treated as such. Specifically, we have proposed a disaster fund which is being used for special social exclusion zones, which we believe should be identified. Only in this way can we target the very early effort, where it makes the greatest difference, rather than spreading it all over the place. It is very positive that something is finally happening. It is very good that an emergency team has been sent to Greenland, but it must not be left alone. And we don't have to wait too long. We are grateful that Denmark would like to contribute to improving help for the children. I see it as a breakthrough. The Minister for Social Affairs has promised further help and it is needed. For 5 million. kr. Doesn't go far, but it's a good start. The government, together with Naalaksuisut, will now come up with an analysis by 2020, but please do not let it become a jam jar, so we will have to wait for the long-term effort to be set in motion as well. It has been documented that it is difficult to recruit and retain people in Tasiilaq. If you sit as a case officer with 260 cases as they have done in Tasiilaq, it is an impossible fight. We must understand that this is not just about fire-fighting, but about tackling the root of the problem, because we do not prevent the abuse, we will always be at the rear. Creating a secure environment for our children and our young people is a shared responsibility. While Greenland has been repatriating the social area, we know that the whole area of justice is still a Danish responsibility in Greenland. Here the government and, in particular, the Minister of Justice have a very special responsibility, because when it comes to sexual assaults on children, these are criminal acts, actions that we also need to be better and quicker to respond to. And it is Inuit Ataqatigiit's clear position that we in the Danish Parliament have to take responsibility for justice in Greenland even more seriously than we have done so far. As it is now, the salary conditions of Greenland police officers and asylum officers are much worse than those of their Danish colleagues. This also applies to their Faroese colleagues, so there is discrimination where two out of three have a different salary than in Greenland. It leaves Greenland with a massive recruitment and retention problem, and it is a ticking bomb under security in Greenland. That is why we also believe that it is appropriate for police and asylum staff to have at least equal pay conditions with their colleagues both in Denmark and in the Faroe Islands. It is absolutely essential that the efforts we are making in the field of social justice and justice are supported by the fact that, of course, we also have people in the area of justice who can carry out those tasks. However, there must also be a great deal of praise to the Greenland Police, which is not like Naala Suisut and the government waiting until 2020, but has already issued a report with concrete and relevant recommendations to which we in the Danish Parliament should also listen carefully. The report says that the average processing time is doubled at the Greenland Police Department when you go from ordinary cases to cases where you do video questioning of children. We must be able to do better than that. Therefore, we should also look at some common solutions when talking about Greenlandic and Danish authorities in Greenland. One solution could be for the state, together with Naalakkersuisut, to set up children's houses where you had a one-door principle around the five municipalities in Greenland, to which the child should approach with the family, rather than having to approach many different authorities in Greenland as you are going to today. Children should not be a throwing ball in the system. It should be us adults who need to coordinate their efforts far more than we do today. Similarly, we also believe that one solution is a general strengthening of parental capacity. Depending on how you see reality, it can be painted light or dark, dark or foresight. Depends on what glasses we wear. We have well-known welfare challenges in Greenland and this is not the first time I have talked about this and these are some challenges that we do not manage, and this is happening generation after generation. After all, the criticism I make is also of the country that I come from and love, and it comes in respect of the children whom I believe we must help much more ambitiously than we do today. Fortunately, experience has also shown that it is possible to change the situation. It also gives hope. Along with a large number of fiery souls in Greenland, I am very proud to have been part of the effort that has halved the number of sexual assaults on children in Greenland. We just need to make sure that all children are also given more effort so that no abuse will happen in the future. Change takes place from within, and we call for all actors in the local communities, not least the eight different children and youth organisations that are part of the Children's Alliance in Greenland, to be consulted on solutions. Inuit Ataqatigiit hopes that the government and my colleagues here in the Folketing will use this extraordinary situation to create once and for all safe conditions for all children in Greenland and in the Kingdom Community. We would like to make a very positive contribution to this work. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-DK_20191003215843	Thank you. Then there is a series of speakers, and that is first Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003215849	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have just returned from the orientation journey in Greenland and have sailed in your fantastic country from Ilulissat to Nuuk. I have Greenland sitting very much inside me also because we were in hurricane storm, so we've had a boat trip of worst drawer for 10 hours, so quite a lot of us in here sail a little longer. You say that there is something that is of particular concern to you, and that is the foundation for Greenland's future: children and young people. We were in the northern municipality, and the mayor told us that it is the richest municipality and also the largest municipality in the world, but that it is also the municipality in Greenland that has the lowest level of education. When children and young people turn 14-15, they get a small dinghy, and then they go and catch Greenland halibut. They can make more than 1 million. kr. A year with that little dinghy. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is concerned that there is no practical training in that municipality. I mean, you can't go on an eud education, so you don't have an opportunity to get an education. Or is it okay because you make a lot of money?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220003	It was so good to say that the rapporteur was finally even twice. You should not say 'you', as was said in the first place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220011	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I am very pleased that the delegation has had a very good trip in Greenland and has also seen some good things in Greenland. There is no doubt that education and job creation are part of the solution. We also need to look at how to create good solutions, including local ones. And I usually say that although we are the world's largest island, in many ways we are also 80 small islands because we live relatively isolated from each other. The need to secure some jobs, among others. also in Tasiilaq, is also one of the things we have pointed out, so you can make sure that this is something that we are going to get rid of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220051	Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220052	I should know about you, but I'm a clerk now. So I'm sorry about that. It is the case that there are also young people who have neither education nor jobs. We were also at a high school in Aasiaat, and we took into account that there were also quite a lot of young people who did not really have a future. In Denmark we have created a fgu, a preparatory basic education. What will you do in Greenland that can help these very, very many children and young people who do not really have a future for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220124	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. One of the things that Naalaksuisut has done is to establish Majoriaq, which is a form of preparation that you can take after primary school if you are to continue studying. I do not think that is enough, and I think it is extremely important that instead of having only one form in which everyone should fit in, we should also look at how we can help to ensure that people who have practical knowledge are maintained in primary school and get a diploma in the end, so that they have some opportunity to read on. A place like this. Tasiilaq is unemployment as high as 25%, so the need to ensure educational institutions and also jobs is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220210	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220213	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech. After all, the rapporteur supports a red, social democratic government, and so I would like to hear from the rapporteur what kind of impressions the rapporteur has had on the budget law or on the new government as a thanks for the support of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220231	Thank you very much. Indeed, we have also, at least morally, supported the previous government. And what can be said quite specifically in relation to the financial bill is that some money is being set aside to do something here, but there is also a need for broad support here in the Folketing in relation to vulnerable children and young people. And then a North Atlantic pool is also set aside, where there is a possibility that we can get some of these things started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220300	Here you go, sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220301	I hear it as if the rapporteur is satisfied with the impression given to the rapporteur. One of the challenges of raising the level of a society is language skills, and Danish is an important language knowledge in Greenland in our optics to ensure that you can both train in Greenland, but perhaps also read on in Denmark. What are some of the measures we can do from the Danish side to support that we get even better Danish knowledge in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220334	Thank you. It is the case that the state also has a number of jobs in Greenland, among others. As an asylum officer. And because, at least in some other parties, you have had a very strong attitude about greenlandisation, it also means that a lot of people only speak Greenlandic, which means that it is really difficult to recruit asylum officers. So it could well be part of the training that you actually received some teaching in Danish. So it could be something you could look at in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220404	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220407	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very nice speech. Normally, when you hear about the Danish-Greenland relationship, it is a debate that goes a lot on block grants and a swarm about independence etc. However, I hear from the rapporteur a sincere interest in how we can jointly strengthen the Kingdom community and resolve some of the obvious problems that cannot be solved by Nuuk alone, but must also be solved from Copenhagen, and I would like to acknowledge that. After all, the Kingdom community is an incredibly important historical and family unit. I think we all know families where Danes and Greenlanders live together and live together and thus are woven into each other's lives. And now that we in the Danish People's Party and hopefully all the parties in this Parliament are handing over that we want to help solve some of the social and economic challenges mentioned by the rapporteur, could perhaps the rapporteur also give a commitment among the other parties in Greenland to speak up the historical and cultural cohesion of the Kingdom Community between Denmark and Greenland? Because sometimes you get the impression of limping a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220516	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the comments as well. It is the way I have experienced, in the four years I have sat in the Folketing, that rhetoric has changed. Where we used to talk a lot about independence, as if it were something that was going to happen tomorrow, then there has been another kind of realism in Greenlandic politics, which I also think suits Greenlandic policy. That's 70 percent. to be self-employed, but in the long term and to varying degrees. And I think that there are also fifteen different definitions of what independence really means. I mean, if we, for example... to be bought by Trump, I do not think it necessarily provides for autonomy, so I am quite prepared to do so. But something that I think is even more important than independence is welfare. I think it is extremely important to ensure that the basic welfare is guaranteed. And this is the case, just when you look at the historical, that we have a Nordic welfare system in Greenland, which is strongly inspired by the Danish, and which is also very high if you look at it globally. So the need to strengthen that welfare so that citizens' everyday lives are better and so that we have just raised both the bottom and the level of education, I think, is really, really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220626	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220627	It may sometimes be difficult to come up with something positive to say about the current President of Washington DC. But if he has really helped to strengthen the understanding that independence may not be the way to go, then that is really good. However, I would just like to acknowledge positively the commitment we are hearing from the rapporteur. And then one might say that one of the alternatives, if one looks at models of independence, could be the West Indies, wouldn't it? You, like the rapporteur himself, do not have the opportunity to sit in the American political system, but are only such advisory and such things. So Greenland has, at least in this way, compared to what the Americans offer to the Virgin Islands, a privileged position. But thank you for the commitment to strengthen the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220717	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220719	Thank you very much. Well, the attention from Trump has been a gift to Greenland. I have also said this in the past, and it has also been a wakeup call for some of my colleagues in this Chamber, that Greenland is actually very interesting and that Greenland is a major asset in terms of foreign policy, so I will in fact return to that. Recently, Foreign Policy Name in the United States and also discussed these things with different people around the system. And it is very clear to see, if you look at Alaska, that the way you treat your indigenous people is not very positive. So I don't think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220759	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220801	After a long day of debate, one might be a little weak in the codes and a little receding in the eyes. However, I think that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's speech on the conditions in certain parts of Greenland made all this disappear in an instant. In fact, we should interrupt the sitting and sit down and find out what we can do because it is so serious. And you can just try to do the thought experiment that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen also mentioned, that is, if it were somewhere near Christiansborg, how would we take action if we experienced conditions of that nature? I understand that there are two case officers with 260 cases per case. In the case of Tasiilaq, it goes without saying that it does not propose anywhere. I think it is important that there has been another dialogue and another recognition that we need to help each other. It's been a barrier to it. I also think it is essential to say that there is nothing that should not be tried and should not be done to correct those conditions. It is completely, completely incomprehensible that it can take place anywhere in the Danish Empire community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220913	Thank you very much for your comments. And a little like when the Prime Minister also talked about it, I am also very touched, because this is something I have been fighting for professionally throughout my working life, in fact. And I was so surprised at how touched I was when the Prime Minister talked about it. Because I really focus very much on being a professional. But I can also just feel that this is really a matter of heart, so I really appreciate the comments. Yes, if it was a Danish town, it would probably have acted a little faster. The challenge is that involvement takes time, and of course it is important to involve between Greenland and Denmark; involve the different parties. But it is also important to act quickly in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003220959	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221000	When you just let your eye fall over the recommendations made by the Greenland Police, you have to say, when they talk about the need for treatment and improvement of reporting possibilities in sexual crimes, that yes, I think you can say that calmly. They say that preventive measures must be adapted to local conditions and to study other factors which may contribute. Well, it's alarming that it's at such a basic level. And I can only repeat that we are at least quite ready to take the initiatives needed to support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221041	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221041-2	Thank you very much, first of all. The children's speaker in Grøndland said that it is so thought-provoking that a DR documentary is needed before politicians in Greenland act on this. Because she sent one report after another. So the fact that the Greenland Police have finally made this good report, which we have called for, also gives some thought to whether it would make sense to do it nationwide. At least some of the places where we know that the reporting figures are really high. We also know that there are so many dark numbers. Could we help uncover this, so we're just targeting it, rather than shooting a little bit of dispersal? In any case, I believe that this is extremely important, because we do not have unbridled funds, and that is why I think it is important to target them at the very early stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221132	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221135	Thank you for a brave and visionary speech. As usual, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen chooses to put a critical light on Greenland and put her finger on the most distant place, namely the children's conditions. We also heard Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen say that the recognition of the need for external assistance is today present in Greenland, but that cannot be quite enough. When Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen says at the same time that what is actually called a disaster fund is needed here, I have to ask: how large does Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen envisage this disaster fund? And the second question is: is there any support for this in Naala Suisut?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221220	Thank you for the questions. I made a note describing this disaster fund. We are actually pointing to six initiatives, such as: are these children's houses, and it's also a need for family high schools. It is simply necessary to put on better clothing for young parents at an early stage. When the parents themselves have experienced sexual abuse or have experienced caring failure, their children may not get the best start. So there is a need for this too. Some of the points we are making here are 100 million. kr. kr. from Denmark and 20 million. kr. from Greenland. We know the model from business development, where the previous government had made what is called balanced equal value, i.e. where both parties put some money in the box. And there we think it is appropriate that Greenland should, of course, also be involved in financing some of these efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221318	Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221320	Now the United States wants to open a consulate with seven employees in Nuuk, and some of the plans we hear from the Americans sound really exciting. It is, of course, as we hear it, in the first place cultural exchanges and language teaching, and we can all only be in favour of that. But when it comes from a country that starts and ends the sentences with America first, it would be natural to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen: What is one imagined in Greenland one might in the long term want to achieve by such a representation? Do you think it's only because the Americans suddenly find Greenlanders and Danes so adorable? Or could you imagine that this is an attempt to massage both the Greenlandic and the Danish public, and that later you will try to kick the door completely open so that there can be more room for American military presence in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221405	I mean, I'm leaning to the end. I see it as a charm offensive from the American side. I have no doubt that in the short term this is about something political, but in the longer term it could be about more military presence. So I think there is a need for us to have this area of confidentiality which has been discussed in the past. We need to be able to discuss foreign policy and security policy to a much greater extent than we have done so far, both among members of parliament, but of course also the government and the Naala Suisut.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221439	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221441	Thank you. And I would like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for her speech, and congratulations on the part-time victory that I think is now a common recognition throughout the Folketing and that there is a government that says: we are now doing something concrete about it. After all, it is first and foremost Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen who has repeatedly fought that struggle to make it visible. And I think it is a really positive situation if this can bring about a real boost, but I sincerely believe that more than one pool is needed. So I think we should wish all of you social workers and other people who have to do this job, and then we have to back them up as best we can. I would like to continue from where Mr. Karsten Hønge left off, and I would like to hear how Greenland will react. Because I see Trump's purchase offer as a parade proposal that really means: you can get used to us coming with more military in Greenland, and we probably don't ask about it. But how will Greenland react to that, and what does Greenland expect Denmark to do? I have heard the signal that there must be more community on foreign policy. I fully agree with that. But how will Greenland react when they come and say: We have to defend our bases up in Pituffik, and therefore we have to have e.g. Any nuclear weapons up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221611	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221611-2	Thank you. Thank you, too. Christian Juhl for the comments. As far as Trump is concerned, it is also interesting to see what will happen when there will be presidential elections in the United States next year. Will he repeat his desire to buy Greenland? Is there going to be a more intensive charm offensive on the American side? We don't know that yet. I think it is important that it is not the United States that is arming up in Greenland, because I think it can escalate the whole situation. But I think it will be important that we together find a good tone in relation to being able, of course, to monitor the area better than we do today, because there is about Greenland a presence of something that we do not really know about. We have seen this in the Arctic analysis. So monitoring and communication I think is something one has to be able to strengthen, also to ensure that search and rescue is better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221714	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221715	Thank you. I have just read an article in RÆSON by Peter Viggo Jakobsen, which I think most people know and which warns precisely against the huge risk that exists at the moment, by more military presence may mean that the spiral grows in the Arctic, and that certainly has not been what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has been advocating. When we talk about the Arctic, it has been a low-voltage area, and most parties in here have talked about that too. But how will the Greenlandic Government react when the Americans are likely to come and demand that they will enter the airports? they will have access for their military boats at airports, but also northwards, with that I think they do, and that cannot be avoided, but how will we act on it, and how will Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen recommend the Danish Government to respond to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221812	Thank you very much. I believe very much in diplomacy; I also think it is important to stick to it as a low-voltage area. At the same time, it is important to keep an eye on the situation even if the situation is completely different. If we have a whole new reality, we also have to act from there. So we're kind of pragmatic about this, but we're really gonna do everything we can to hold on to it as a low-voltage area. I believe that diplomacy, even when we talk about the Arctic Council, will be extremely important. In the long term, the eight Arctic states, which are not, of course, discussing security policy in the Arctic Council, will have to have a forum, I think, to discuss some of these things in and how to scale down the whole situation. by the fact that the political system really does talk, rather than myth formations occurring around one another.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221902	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003221903	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech, which also reminds us of the great value of the Kingdom Community for all of us, but also the huge challenges that are quite right. Now it is mostly justice that I have known about for good reasons and the rapporteur and I have had many good discussions in this area. I could not dream of claiming that we were in the goal, but I would say that many steps have been taken on the basis of a Greenlandic priority and that we have had some good dialogues. But, of course, there is a huge, huge challenge. Now the Greenlandic justice system and the Danish justice system are very different. We are rounded up by two different cultures as far as this is concerned. And I couldn't dream for a second of saying that this isn't about big social efforts, just to say that. But if we experience what is being reported, that is, that children down to 3 years have venereal diseases and other things, close to us, then I think we would start talking quite quickly about imposing penalties and talking about punishment and consistency. I sense that it is a little dawning on Greenland in that direction. Perhaps the rapporteur could say a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222016	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222016-2	Thank you very much, and I would also like to acknowledge the good cooperation that has been achieved when the rapporteur was Minister of Justice. After all, 40 million were set aside. kr., among others. to strengthen the justice area in Greenland, and yes, we are not in the goal, but it is a good start. I'm gonna have to round the wages, too. Because we are actually in a situation where we are shutting down some departments in different institutions because we do not have people to look after the inmates or look after those who are in society, and in the same way one can say that the police are experiencing a massive retention problem which is really worrying. It is also the case that about 40%. of the inmates who are in the asylums have been placed as children, and that is thought-provoking. After all, it is people who should have made a social effort many, many years ago, but who have not received it, which is reflected in some crime. So there is no doubt that preventive work is one of the things we will at least point out as one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222122	I fully acknowledge the challenges on the staff side, and we have discussed this at times. But where does the rapporteur stand in relation to having a proper criminal framework and having that part incorporated into Greenlandic legislation? For it is clear that, with the cultural glasses I have, I have wondered a lot about the way in which it is done. In other words, some might say that in some of the crimes committed, among others. against children, should be a clearer penal framework and some major consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222202	Thank you, and also thank you for the repetition, so that I can give a clearer answer. As far as penalties are concerned, we have, of course, wanted it to be debated, and this has been taken up by Naala Suisut and also raised in a public debate in Greenland. So the attitude towards it in Greenland is beginning to change. Resocialization may seem more interesting to me. Because our entire legal system is based on rehabilitation, but there is no mention in the criminal law of having any treatment. So if you have offended a child, we also know that there will be a relapse, that is to say, that you commit abuse again, in some cases at least, if it is that you are not being treated. We are not giving that today, because it has become a throwing ball between Greenland and Denmark, with regard to who should pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222248	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222252	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur for a heartbreaking speech. It always hurts to hear when so many children are hit so hard by abuse and neglect, so I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking it up today and putting the emphasis on it. I think this is a very good place to take action, because we cannot be aware that we have children who feel so bad, and it is also the children who must take Greenland forward and ensure a better future, including for adults in Greenland. So it is very beautiful and I think it is very sensible to set in motion an analysis work in relation to getting good long-term work going in order to get that disaster fund set up, and I also think it is wonderful that the judiciary and police reports are involved. So I have great faith in that coming to mean something. My question then is: can the rapporteur imagine anything else that we can offer from Denmark in addition to perhaps money that could support the development that is going on in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222405-2	Thank you for your question and thank you very much for your comments. One of the things I think Denmark can help to support around is education. After all, we have 500-600 Greenlandic students, and I very much believe that when we talk about social policy, it is about lifting the bottom and there I really believe that education is one of the areas. I would like our young people, in addition to being good at Greenlandic, to have better knowledge of Danish and mathematics. Because it just opens doors when you know several different languages, that you can take an education. I also think it is extremely healthy when you come from a country like Greenland that you come out of Greenland and see your own country in a different perspective, because I think it provides a vision and a different understanding of how the whole world is connected. Because you can quickly have a tendency to close up a little about yourself. I also think that there is a tendency in parts of Greenlandic policy to close oneself more than to look at the fact that there is an exciting world around you. I think that the opportunities for skillfulness and effort should be even more important in Greenland in the future, because unfortunately I do not think it has received the attention it should also have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222525	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222527	Thank you for your answer. I think it makes very good sense to invest in education, just as we do everywhere else. My question then is: are there any challenges in terms of developing the things that are in progress and the educational systems that are in progress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222546-2	Thank you. It is the case that the previous government has created a strategy for education and research in the Arctic, and this also applies to Greenlandic students in Denmark. There you have taken some steps to see if you can support Greenlandic students in Denmark better, for example. with some Danish lessons. As far as I know, there has been no search for it. So it may also have something to do with adapting it to the needs, rather than making a pool and then sitting at a desk in some ministry and thinking: It was also a good idea. Maybe you have to go out there and talk to people instead. But the dropout among Greenlandic students in Denmark is twice as high as it is for Danish students. So I think that would certainly be a good area for action.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222626	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222628	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for a very good speech. I shall then turn to foreign policy. After all, it is always grateful to have such an American president who behaves like a clown, as he has certainly done in this context, to have a little fun over it and, moreover, to welcome the fact that the focus is on the foreign policy situation and the Arctic strategic interests. You can always laugh at that. But that is a rather serious situation, because we, who have a veneration for Russia, are not Putin, but Russia, too, can see that there is a debate in Russia about the Arctic interests that are evolving from the so-called IP liberalist path, namely the international law and the negotiating approach, into a more patriotic approach, which invests heavily militarily and invokes the right to defend its interests outside its borders also by military means. The same is true in China these years. If you then take the whole melting pot of the various interests, I would like to ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen if she thinks it is realistic that we can keep the Arctic as a low-voltage area in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222751	Thank you very much for the question. It is a very good question, and I think there are a lot of people around and also scientists who ask themselves that question. That is also why I believe that we need to have the discussion, because we can suddenly find ourselves in a whole new reality. I think it is important that people in Greenland know something more about the way China acts around the world, among other things. in Africa. I believe that Greenland also needs to know more about foreign policy and that we need more research in Greenland anchored in Greenland. This could help to ensure that some more fact-based decisions are taken than we do today. We actually have a very concrete proposal on how to get some knowledge anchored in this Arctic research hub, which we are going to do in Greenland. Perhaps as part of the University of Greenland. So you can create some more knowledge that you can then give to the political system, so that hopefully some decisions can be made on a slightly better basis than the basis on which we make them today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222851	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222853	Thank you for that very nuanced and good answer. But can Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen perhaps elaborate a little bit of what expectations one has of the Danish Parliament, the Danish Government, in relation to the implementation of the Arctic strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222911	Specifically, the strategy for the Arctic will expire soon, namely next year, and some of what we would like to see is the maximum involvement of Greenland, not only of the Naala Suisut, but of course also here in the Folketing and in the Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, so you kind of have a common line on what we want in 10-12 years. It is therefore extremely important to discuss so that it is not just over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you sit and make an Arctic strategy. So we would very much like to take an initiative to create a framework for that discussion. But I think a room of confidentiality will also be extremely important to strengthen. We are looking at this in the area of defence policy, and I hope that we can also strengthen the dialogue between Greenland and Denmark in the field of foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003222956	Thank you. Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223000	Thank you very much, and thank you for a very warm speech from the rapporteur. It was exciting to hear about that. There is no one in the Chamber who is now in doubt about my interest in the Arctic and, above all, our military situation up there. At the same time, I know that the rapporteur's own daughter is serving as a military service in Denmark. After I get to know you, we've talked about it sometimes. At the same time, we are talking about vulnerable children and young people and lack of education and so on. Would it be interesting to look at whether, instead of having a test for military service, people were allowed to draw lot numbers and had an actual military service in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223047	I have to tell you, you don't talk to you, you don't talk to yours. You talk in the third person. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223051	Thank you very much. The IA would like to see at least a discussion on whether to extend the protection right. And I think that you should stick to the right to protection in relation to Greenland rather than to military service. It is the case that today you can come to the day of the defense and then you have the opportunity to bid that you would like to serve the military service in Denmark. I would very much like there to be a military training programme in Greenland. It could be in Kangerlussuaq, I think that would be really obvious. And one of my favorite stories, which I have told a few times, also in the Defence Committee, was that the defence went to Greenland and found that it was very cold and that there was a need for some long underwear. That's the conclusion of this exercise. And there I thought that you can then use the knowledge we have in Greenland about what it's like to act in an Arctic environment. In any case, we would very much like to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223149	Thank you. And one must also recognise that at those meetings the need for cold weather training has arisen. They're all talking about that, so that would be an excellent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223202	Absolutely. More exercises, also locally, so that it not only stays in Nuuk, but that it stays around because search and rescue happens throughout Greenland. If we are in a situation where we should be equipped from other sources, it is also important that we get training around, including with local preparedness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223221	Thank you. Then there are no more questioners, so that's why it's over. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003223241	Thank you. Denmark's colonial history is about the military, the entire legal system, all the courts, the entire law enforcement, the entire police, the whole foreign policy, contact with the outside world. But it is we in this Chamber who have the last word, it is we who are in charge of these things and more. When was the last time you thought about the effect these responsibilities have on your fellow citizens in Greenland • the Danish citizens in Greenland? Denmark has done nothing but what Denmark thought was best. Yeah, colonial times are over. I have often been told that, but have been told that I would rather talk about reality instead. So let's talk about reality. It is 300 years since Greenland became a colony in Denmark. It is 66 years since Greenland became part of the Danish Kingdom in a referendum in Denmark. It was 40 years ago that home rule was introduced. And this year it is also 10 years since the autonomy was introduced in Greenland. I was born in 1996, i.e. when home rule was 17 years old, and I was 12 years old when we were granted autonomy. Nevertheless, as a young Greenlander and now as a member of parliament, I am still experiencing the backlog of colonial times. After all, we're on good and evil a product of colonial times. Because although I was not the one who was citizenshipless like my brother's father when he was born, and although I was the first to go to segregate schools like my parents, my siblings, yes, as my whole family did, I have nevertheless grown up with the aftereffects of colonial times. Because no matter how much you deny the past, it helps shape our future. In the Prime Minister's opening speech, there was talk of trust, and this made me think of how important that trust is, how important it is to have for his country, for his people and democracy. But how is this confidence built up? Unfortunately, not through colonisation which has led to birthplace criteria, wage differences based on geographical ethnicity, social inequality, structural impotence and assimilation. No, unfortunately, this is the dark side of the common history we have. And trust in the Danish state was unfortunately weakened over time for the Danish citizens who now live in Greenland, for us Greenlanders, and now it is our time to build that trust. That is why I hope that we all remember our joint responsibility for Greenland when we come from this Chamber in the next few years to work to create greater security as well as confidence. Because it is not just us, the Greenlandic mandates, it is all our responsibility in here. Greenland is on its way to independence, which can either strengthen or weaken cooperation with Denmark, depending on how we also perceive this journey. It is now up to us to decide together whether the weakened trust that was and is between Denmark and Greenland should be improved or whether we should further create abyss. I believe that we can do better, because although in principle I do not want Greenland to have two parliamentary mandates in the future, precisely because I believe that Greenland must have a right of sovereignty over the country, I would like to use my mandate now to strengthen the weakened trust and create a basis for genuinely equal cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in the future. It starts with a recognition of our common history of good and evil, starting with an apology. The Danish state has had a crucial role in the experiment with Greenlandic children in 1950, which, contrary to intention, has done serious damage to very many people, and it is only one area. Because it went wrong in many other areas despite the good intentions. But that excuse deserves the survivors of the experiment, so that we from Greenland deserve to know that we as people are worthy enough to receive that apology. It requires confidence, including on the part of the Danish state, that Greenland wants this, and it must have a basis in the right intentions. These are those who have been harmed by colonialism, who have suffered family relations, who have led to increased violence, alcohol and drug abuse, which have unfortunately been passed on to the next generations, to us. The time has not come to turn the other cheek, but for us all to take responsibility for building a real, equal relationship again, so that together we can create the cooperation on which the Kingdom community is claimed to be built. And I hope that you will join me on this journey, because Denmark today still has the responsibility in 30 areas in Greenland often forgotten, laid aside, neglected, but nevertheless helps to create an inequality. And we know that inequality creates mistrust, so let us build confidence again. The priority of the police in Denmark is now a political issue, which is good, but frankly I get a little tired, because I remember that Greenland has been fighting for decades for equality, not better conditions than others, but for equality, for the police and their terms of pay, but why should it take so long? Has one simply been indifferent to the Danish citizens of Greenland? It's time for change! Resources must be provided to modernise the police system as the Danish state's concern, since it is not at all at the same level as in the rest of the community. Danish citizens in Greenland, I, us, should no longer be discriminated against. Wherever you come from, as a Danish citizen you must have the same pay conditions. Unfortunately, this applies not only to the police, but also to prisons and asylums and in many other areas. It is simply so unusable and I think it is a great challenge for our community: Greenlandic preparedness Sasak's savings are completely out of proportion; several years of delayed Greenlandic charts, which are essential; lack of clean-up of Greenlandic military facilities approved by Denmark; a fantastic fine prison has been built in Nuuk while others are falling; lack of employees; savings; deteriorations; and denial. There are so many things that I can't list them all in 10 minutes. But there is light at the end of the tunnel, because I really think we can do better. Just lately, Greenland has received help immediately, when natural castrophs or something that was man-made have occurred. I would also like to thank the government for immediately helping Greenland in relation to the unfortunate situation we have experienced with regard to Tasiilaq. I would like to thank you for the recognition of Greenland's desire for greater self-determination, because this approach brings hope, it creates confidence, a confidence that we have lacked. It is important to make it clear that we as Greenlanders want greater self-determination, but that does not necessarily mean that we want to distance ourselves from Denmark, on the contrary, because we do not want to fight each other, but to strengthen each other. It is more of a desire to cooperate with several countries in a globalised world where, together with Denmark, we can stand as partners in a truly equal community and as the two equal states. That's what we dream of. Whatever the case, it is blood ties that bind us to Denmark, and therefore the future Greenlandic state will have much more strong and warm relations with the Danish state regardless of its independence. But that also means that we in the House are now correcting this inequality and making cooperation more equal. It's time. So let us correct the mistrust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224235	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224239	Thank you for the rapporteur's strong and strong speech, I think I will call it. Of course, I was aware that the rapporteur calls for an apology, just as the Prime Minister apologized to the good-port boys. The rapporteur calls for an apology. However, I would perhaps like to clarify whether the rapporteur thinks that it is the minister responsible, the Prime Minister, who should apologise for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224311	I believe that it is the person who can speak on behalf of the Danish state who has to apologise in this case, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224328	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224329	But in relation to the confidence that the rapporteur speaks of in the speech, is it to be understood that the rapporteur, who represents a large part of Greenland's youth, will not have confidence in a prime minister who does not make an apology?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224346	This isn't about what I think. It's about what feeling you're left with when someone destroys a trust that you should have had to the one you were closest to. And I believe that we can build that trust if we are to have genuinely equal cooperation, which we are going around talking about in here at Castle. I think we can do that without talking about personally distrust.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224418	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224422	I am sure that the rapporteur knows the old Kierkegaard quote that life must be lived from scratch, but understood from behind. And that is often the case with a country, with a people's history: that when you look back with the glasses of today, mistakes and injustices have been made. This is true, for example. against women who first received the right to vote in 1907 in municipal elections and in 1915 in parliamentary elections; against religious minorities who in Denmark, just after the end of the Middle Ages, also did not enjoy the same privileges as Christians, etc. So there are absurdities that we would not repeat today. But what I do not understand from the rapporteur's speech is why she uses the past to deprive future generations of Greenlanders of the privileges that the rapporteur himself has enjoyed. As I understand it, the rapporteur was born in Hillerød, has studied at the University of Copenhagen, has put up a competition called Miss Denmark, and has therefore benefited from what is Denmark. If the rapporteur so incarnately wants Greenland to be independent, how can this be in keeping with the fact that she has benefited from the fruits that are Denmark? And why must the generation that she must bring into the world and the generations after that not also enjoy the same fruits?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224532	I don't know if it's when you talk about becoming a state, or when you talk about independence, you end up giving some impression that we're actually just gonna shut ourselves off from Denmark and the rest of the world. Here it is important to point out that I agree with the rapporteur on what he says: we need to know our past in order to shape our future. And that's exactly what I'm building my speech on. Because by denying and denying, we are not going any further either. There is a reason why there has been a great deal of mistrust. There's a reason there's been a great deal of anger. And if we are actually to be able to create a breeding ground for a genuinely equal cooperation between Denmark and Greenland, then we cannot continue to say that these things have not been real.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224623	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224624	I don't know anyone who doesn't recognize that things were the way they were. I would almost like to ask if the rapporteur knows anyone, because then I think we should get the names out. I believe that everyone recognises that the past was as it was, and we want to create a brighter future. What I just do not understand is whether the rapporteur, with the idea of independence and the swarming that she seems to be exponent to in Greenland, imagines that the same social, educational and labour market benefits can be offered to future generations that the rapporteur himself has benefited from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224702	It's not something I just mean; it's something I know. I know that if we really want to be part of the world order and do real cooperation with more countries than only Denmark, but where Denmark is also included, then we should also be allowed to come here. But if you do not want us to stop here, then it is also fine, because we can open up to the rest of the world, including the EU and the Nordic countries, with which we already have agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224734	I'm just saying it with a very mild voice, because many are new, but we're not going to tell you we're going to be indicted in the third person in here. The next is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224755	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the rapporteur's speech and congratulations on the first speech, including from the IA. The IA fully agrees with this with an equal partnership. Well, we kind of liked to see that there was. And we have also tabled a motion for a resolution in this House in the past about the experimental children, where there was also quite a lot of support. I also know that the Prime Minister will apologize later. But it is, in fact, the decision of the Naala Suisut that one would like to have an investigation first. So it is not because it is the Folketing that is an obstacle to giving an apology, but it is, in fact, because you want the study to be in place first. I would like to ask a few questions about SISAK, because it is actually not true that there are savings, but it is a question of strengthening the police fleet of boats around Greenland, among other things. in Tasiilaq, and we think that, from the point of view of the IA, is a very good thing. So I would like to hear the rapporteur elaborate on what savings are that the rapporteur is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003224857	This is a matter of human life, because in dangerous seas, which many of our Greenlandic people spend most of their time on, it is important if accidents occur, and if there are big storms, that regardless of the weather, and no matter how large a ship may sink, you have to be able to go and save people. Now you want to change the big cutters that can sail in storms and storms and pull heavy ships out of the water... with less and faster boats, because you want to be more efficient. I agree very much with that. The only problem is that you have to have one if you want the other. The same way we can't just say that because we need more doctors, we're throwing out the nurses. It just doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225002	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225004	Thank you very much. It is quite true that there is often very bad weather in Greenland, and there is a need for search and rescue, where it is both the defence and the police. It is, of course, the police's own professional judgement that there is a need for faster boats to be able to get out more quickly, and I think that is also important to respect. So I see it not as a saving, but as a modernisation. So I think it is also important to respect the positions of the police themselves and of the contact persons on the alert in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225040	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225041	It is fun to mention contact preparedness, i.e. contact with the emergency services, because these are the ones I have consulted before I took it up in the elections. Indeed, it is those who work for the cutters and work for the boats that think it is worrying and a problem. It's also because these smaller boats should be planned to get on land because they can't handle the big storms. But that's where we need help. It could cost lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225119	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225120	It's not really a question, it's just an expression. I am really emotionally affected by hearing the rapporteur's speech, just as I was when the rapporteur from the IA was up and talking. Well, it's that there's suddenly going to be that voice in this Parliament, in this room where you get the feeling that we're so diverse in the Folketing, and that there's a lot of voices here. You put into words a reality that isn't ours who live in Denmark, but yet we have the deep relationship that gets materialised when we hear this post. So I just want to say thank you from my heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225210	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225211	I can only say Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225220	Sir. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225221	I can only speak on behalf of the Danish People's Party, as at present. is a fairly small party... we're working on that... to change it. But I can tell the rapporteur that an apology will never happen as long as the Danish People's Party has the least to decide in this Chamber. The natural question is: sorry for what? So, I believe that Greenland and the Greenlandic people should be happy that it was Hans Egede who sailed into the Godthåbsfjord in 1721, and that Greenland did not become part of the United States. I believe that the Inuits in Canada and the United States see with great envy the way in which cooperation between Denmark and Greenland has taken place and the good friendship between the two countries. I guess there isn't a family in Greenland who doesn't have Danish blood in their veins. We regard the Greenlanders as compatriots and have always done so, and then we have to hear such a very hateful speech from the rapporteur. I think it's sad. I thought that kind of thing disappeared with Aleqa Hammond. Now I understand that we need a kind of reconciliation commission, just as they had in South Africa, and I think it is simply going too far, it is out of line, it is an insult. I think that Greenland should be grateful and express gratitude to the Danish people and changing Danish governments, who have so much embraced Greenland, also with great warmth and love. So an apology from here is never gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225403	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225408	Well, I'm sorry, sir. Søren Espersen believes that as Greenland's representative I do not understand what the Greenlandic people feel about the history that has been, because you may have been much better than other colonists. So if it's the case that one day you should have a boyfriend and he's only gonna slap you and say he's not gonna beat you up, and somebody else does, then maybe you just have to put up with it. No, there are actually some things you have to be able to apologize for to move on. It is not a hateful rhetoric; it is actually to move forward so that we can actually build real cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225454	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225455	Well, then we'll play it. But then let us go in and be practical, and then we have to be told here and now: what are we to apologize for to the Greenlandic people, who are half a Danish people and who have connections across and across all sorts of different ways? What are we supposed to apologize for? And who's gonna apologize? Is that supposed to be the Prime Minister? It would seem very, very awkward that the Prime Minister should apologize for something that did not even start in 1721, but which dates back to the Danish-Norwegian Viking Empire. Already from that time, in other words for a thousand years, there has been the cohesion between Denmark and the Greenlandic people. And I'm very shocked by the speech that came from here today. But what are we to apologize for? Let's get a list of it. Then maybe I can take this seriously for once, even though I didn't even imagine I was going to, but then we can relate to something. What's the excuse for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225557	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225558	Then you give me 30 seconds to list something that covers 300 years of colonial history. No, that's not how it's supposed to work. Well, there's a lot of things in this. Let us just remember that it is actually no more than one or two generations ago that there were many who did not even have citizenship or rights, or that the compatriots, as you call them now, are still discriminated against in relation to pay conditions due to ethnicity and ancestry. And then let's move on from there, let's stop talking about it, but let's build a common future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225632	You still don't talk to each other with you. We move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225642	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna take the opposite view, sir. Søren Espersen say that I have great respect for your wishes, and in the alternative we support an apology to the Greenlandic people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225705	I have nothing more to say than qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225711	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225724	I would, however, like to express my thanks for the speech, and I would agree with Morten Messerschmidt that there are absurdities in history; things we should have done differently. For example: If I were DFs, I would have done very differently and voted against the Home Rule Act and voted against the Self-Government Act. To claim that we should put Greenland under administration when there are problems it is a mistake in history that DF should have considered doing differently. After all, they can correct that by helping to find constructive solutions, Mr President. Søren Espersen. Then there's the children's case that we've been talking about... everyone's seen the film about the forced-removed children from Greenland... who are under discussion... and who the Prime Minister has agreed to take a look at. It's just as important as the good-port boys' case. And that's why it's important, sir. Søren Espersen, that we can apologize when the Danish state has committed an attack on specific people. It is extremely important, and that is why I would like to say that it is quite okay to mention it in the Folketing. And I think there's a lot of support for the government in looking at this case. But I agree with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen that it is very sensible for us to say: there is a report along the way, let us see what it contains and then let us react from it. I believe that the conclusion will be what we all believe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225846	Thank you for your comment. I also think it is very important that we look at it with children, which is why it is also important that we have it spoken. Funny enough it was also the case that I and the other Greenlandic MP got to know each other. We fought for children's rights in Greenland. So it is with great pleasure that we can talk about how to solve the problems together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225923	Here we go again, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003225927	Thank you. I also have a great interest in Greenland and Denmark's foreign policy and the slightly special situation we have with the Arctic. Because I think we need to get together on this. Firstly, it is Greenland that allows Denmark to be a state at all in the Arctic context and thus also to be able to conduct politics. I am also very pleased that it is Greenland's representatives who often speak the cause of the Kingdom Community. But it is important to discuss how to ensure low voltage in the Arctic and also in Greenland. Because I believe that the Americans want to be at airports and in many other places in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230008	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230008-2	Thank you very much for your comment. I also believe that it is important in a more global world order in which we now live that we should be able to have real cooperation, including on major policy. Because it is not just the United States, it is not just Russia; it is not just China; it is all working in one way or another for their own interest. And here, regardless of our independence, we must be able to work together as federal states on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230044	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230045	I would just like to thank you very much for a very touching speech and, above all, for the courage to talk about colonial times in the Folketing in the way the rapporteur did. It is rare that this has happened in a way where so many people have heard so well at this time of day in these opening and closing debates. So I think the rapporteur should be very, very proud of that. And then I would say that I do not think the rapporteur thinks that it will be awkward on the day when the Prime Minister will hopefully take that apology in his mouth. I don't think the Prime Minister himself does that in any way. But there are some others in here in this Parliament hall who can figure out how to behave incredibly awkwardly and who should perhaps learn one or two things about both the past and the present.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230137	Thank you very much. I do not have so many comments on it except: Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230147	Would Mrs. Pernille Skipper like another round? Then we move on to Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230154	I'd like to vote with Mrs. Pernille Skipper. I am very excited about Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam's courage. I do not necessarily agree with everything that was said in the speech, but I am just as enthusiastic about Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam's courage as I was in favour of the Prime Minister's courage to apologize to her, although everyone else said that it should not be done at least in the official work, the former government and all those who decided earlier. Because my father was a good port boy, so it meant the world to me. That's irrational. Then I can stand here and say that it matters to me, but why does it do that? And you can't use that for anything. Yeah, you can use that for something. It was fantastic when the Prime Minister apologized and you could tell it was heartfelt. That is why we have to maintain that it is the Prime Minister's prerogative to decide whether or not to give an apology. And I feel quite confident that this dialogue can be taken by the Prime Minister. But I am a little sad that at the same time it must be followed by a debate on autonomy, because that should not be a coupling.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230313	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230315	Thank you very much for your comment. The reason I am talking about colonialism tied up in independence is that I think our history is so important and that it is important to understand why Greenland has wanted to have greater self-determination. When you wanted home rule, it wasn't because everything was gold and green forests in Greenland. It was because there were already things that did not work and that, unfortunately, the Danish state could not handle. If we are to move forward, we need to recognise the desire for self-determination in order to actually create a genuinely equal community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230400	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230401	That is where my concern comes in, and it is also in the light of what I mentioned to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, that we are in a situation where it can be very difficult to maintain the whole Arctic area in a low-voltage situation. Would it not be stronger and a better position for us to keep the ties as close as possible in the years to come, and then, of course, with the premise that the Danish state is living up to equality and that we are living up to what we should be living up to with the Greenlandic people? But that we maintain a close Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230446	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230447	The problem is that I find it difficult to see the purpose of calling it a community when it is really a wealthy unit. It is the Danish Empire Community. If we're gonna have that close bond that you're sorry about, sir. The rapporteur also sounds like a wish, so it is also important that we create the structural framework that is needed to ensure that we are equal. And that requires two states to work equally side by side.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230521	Then we will thank Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam very much and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003230553	Thank you. Having been out of the Folketing for a while, it's nice to be back, nice to revisit familiar faces, and I look forward to getting to know the new members. Congratulations to the new government and the Prime Minister. In the Faroe Islands we also have a new local government, a local government led by the Sambands party. In relation to the cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, I can briefly mention that the new Home Rule Government will work towards the following: revising the law on foreign policy powers, a real free trade agreement with inter alia. EU, to strengthen the position of the Faroe Islands as part of the Arctic, and to introduce health care guarantees in the Faroe Islands in close cooperation with the Danish health service. The Home Government of the Faroe Islands will work for this. The new Home Rule Government will not resume work on a Faroese constitution or promote takeovers. I am pleased that the Sambands Party is working for the strengthening and development of the Kingdom community and is aware that together we stand stronger. Never has the need for cooperation been greater than now. We can see this trend all over the world. And the global climate challenges show it better than anything else. It was therefore with great interest that I listened to the Prime Minister's opening speech. I am pleased that the Kingdom Community has been given so much space today that the Prime Minister's priority is to strengthen cooperation both with the national government and with us, the North Atlantic members. I am pleased that the government has an ambitious climate policy and wants to take the lead in solving the climate challenges, which can only be solved in cooperation with other countries, as the Prime Minister said in his speech. In this regard, we do not escape the Kingdom community. The Kingdom Community has a central role to play when it comes to the environment and climate, which, as you know, does not respect national borders. The kingdom community stretches from Schleswig in the south across the North Atlantic and right up to the North Pole and has great opportunities, but also a great responsibility. The ocean circulation in the North Atlantic affects the entire climate system of the planet. It's the main artery of the sea itself. We therefore have a global responsibility together. We need to understand the sea better. The changes in the ocean currents have a huge impact on both the environment and climate, and in the Faroe Islands we experience it at the very nearest level. We live with and by nature and experience the changes before and stronger than most other parts of the Nordic Region. It is therefore necessary to learn how climate change will affect the entire region at sea and up on land. That is why I am pleased that the Prime Minister said in his speech that next year the government will spend 1 billion. kr. on green research. Former governments, both blue and red, have supported and allocated money to North Atlantic research in climate, environment and impact on fish stocks. I therefore hope that the new government will be as responsive as previous governments have been. Hopefully, the work that was put on track in the government base in 2007, but which unfortunately has not been a priority for the last four years of the North Atlantic mandates, can be resumed. Specifically, I would like marine research in the North Atlantic to be a priority under the Finance Act, a North Atlantic research collaboration between Faroese, Greenlandic and Danish research institutions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The previous appropriations in the Finance Act, together with so much else, have financed two doctoral and three postdoc theses, which have contributed with new knowledge and laid a good foundation for further research. One is the fact that the sea is influenced by climate change, but the ocean currents also affect the climate and weather on the mainland and thus also agriculture. When the ocean circulation is the main artery of the North Atlantic, it is also appropriate to measure the pulse of the Kingdom community itself. Climate change, as I said, does not respect national borders. That is why the climate struggle is a joint battle, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his speech, and since the Kingdom Community is responsible for the area from Gedser in the south to Qaanaaq in North Greenland, it is also the kingdom of the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark that is jointly responsible for gathering as much knowledge as possible about sea behaviour and climate change in our part of the world. It's a landlord! Madam Prime Minister, I am pleased that you are putting on the green guide hat and taking the climate challenges seriously in close cooperation with Faroese and Greenlandic authorities and institutions, of course. While I was working on this speech, a young woman gave all the world's leaders a song to the UN General Assembly in New York: Greta Thunberg accused the world's politicians, us, in harsh terms, of failing our responsibility and letting go of the climate crisis; that we have failed the generations that are coming after us. And it struck me that I have, of course, made a speech very similar to this rapporteur's speech earlier, a speech about climate change. It was as the Faroese lagman for a meeting of the Nordic Council in Reykjavík back in 1995. Even then, we saw climate change in the North Atlantic. Both weather conditions and the environment changed, and it still does. And what have we done, sir? President? At least not enough. But we can still do a lot together! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231524	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231529	Thank you. First of all, I would like to welcome Mr. Edmund Joensen, who has been missing, especially in the Left Parliament Group. We are very, very excited to have Mr. Edmund Joensen back again. In the meantime, Mr. Edmund Joensen was out of Tinget, we've had another government. It's hard to see if you haven't been here in the meantime. The government had an important priority to include both Greenlandic and Faroese mandates in a number of issues, including the discussion of the Finance Laws. And I just want to make sure that Mr. Edmund Joensen will also be involved in the Finance Act by the new government and will be involved in the negotiations on this, otherwise this will be a good opportunity to draw attention to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231628	I hope that I have now been told that I have a contribution to the Finance Act. I am glad that the priority has been given to the climate problem or research so much that a whole billion kroner has been set aside. The project I am talking about is not of the order of magnitude of much less time, but of course it has to be included in the Finance Act, and we need to talk about that at the right time and in the right forum. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231718	Isn't there any more questions? Then we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231725	Sir. Edmund Joensen's party, the Samband Party, is now part of the government of the Faroe Islands. Can I have an explanation of the reason why it has been decided to place its representation in Israel in Jerusalem instead of in Tel Aviv, where the others are, so that it helps to fuel the fire and conflict in the area where it already exists as one of the major areas of conflict? What may be the reason for placing oneself in Jerusalem?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231757	Thank you for the question. What is contained in the agreement between the parties in the national government is that the national government intends to set up embassies in countries such as Japan and Israel. There is nothing written about Jerusalem; I have looked, so that is my answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231835	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231837	I am really glad to hear that, because I have seen a number of references to the fact that one intends to place one's representation in Jerusalem. So perhaps I should understand that, on the contrary, we will do what virtually every country does, namely place its representation in Tel Aviv.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231854	Yes, now the papers say: e.g. in Japan and in Israel. And I understand perfectly well that an embassy is being set up, for example. Japan is, after all, a large market for fish exported by the Faroe Islands. And in relation to the other, I have seen nothing but that it says in the agreement that, for example, it... is Israel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231933	Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003231935	I would like to congratulate Mr. Edmund Joensen says that he has rejoined the Danish Parliament and that his party, the Samband Party, has taken over the leadership of the Faroe Islands. I would just like to ask the question of the election campaign over in the Faroe Islands: will the rapporteur give an assessment of the role played by the self-government issue and the national community in the election campaign that has just been over?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232006	Thank you for the question, and thank you for your congratulations for being back in the Folketing. I shall say this very briefly: at the last election there was not so much talk of secession as there have sometimes been. On the contrary, it was a very subdued issue. Not because things are not going well in the Faroe Islands... it is going well financially in the Faroe Islands... but the debate that was before the elections, I must say, is the tameest in terms of secession that I have been involved in since I entered politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232052	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232059	Thanks for the speech. I have just come home from a fantastic orientation trip to the Faroe Islands with a bunch of people here from the Danish Parliament, and it is incredibly nice to experience how well things are going, how much is happening and how well things are going. A small message that came home to the government in particular and, of course, to the rest of the Danish Parliament, is that there is, for example, that there is a need to ensure that there is no discrimination between the two sides of industry. Health is very much legislation, it takes many years to implement it, simply because it stalls in the Danish ministries. So I have a little call for us to continue working on making sure that it can be updated. Among other things: We were told by the new Minister for Health that this is a problem in relation to patients' rights and such things. That was a small comment. You mentioned free trade agreements, and I would like to hear about how you think Denmark can contribute to either giving some more space to the Faroe Islands, or how the government can contribute to making it easier for you to conclude some of the agreements you mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232153	We need to be careful with that direct charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232159	Thank you. I shall reply to the first with the treatment guarantee for patients. The national government intends to upgrade the hospital service and they will provide people with a guarantee in the same way as they have done in Denmark, with 30 days' waiting time. And in this connection it must be ensured that if the present Faroese hospital cannot last the 30 days, an agreement will be made with the Danish health system, of course against payment, to help so that these 30 days can be observed. That's what's in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232255	Christoffer Aagaard Melson, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232258	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned a possible free trade agreement and I wondered how the government could possibly contribute to facilitating the implementation of that agreement by the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232319	Thank you, thank you for the question. After all, the Faroe Islands have a simple trade agreement with the EU, which dates back to the late 1980s, in the early 1990s, and it is not spacious enough for Faroese exports today. That is why the Faroe Islands want more free trade for the EU market in particular. That's where the finished products can be sold. And the Faroe Islands have the best fish in the world, almost. So it is both for the Faroe Islands and for the European Union that we can eat that fish.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232406	Then it's Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232408	Thank you for that and nice to see the rapporteur again in the Chamber. It's been enjoyable the other times, so I guess it's gonna be this time too. I'd like to hear about one thing. The previous government of the Faroe Islands sent a complaint to the Folketing because we forgot that the Faroe Islands did not want the price- and wage-regulated block subsidy. And the finance minister had forgotten that, and thus the Faroe Islands had received too much money in block grants. And that is why Denmark had to apologize and say that okay, for the future we will remember the decisions of the Faroe Islands. Is that the same attitude of the new government? Another issue, which is a little more in line with what we have been talking about today, is about the climate. The Faroe Islands have a number of aquaculture farms that are inside the fjords, and when I have discussed with some of the fish farmers, they say: we have to take great care of what we feed, and whether we provide preventive penicillin and all those things because we have to take care of our marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232519	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232520	Thank you. The block grant first: I have looked into the agreement of the national regime, and it says nothing but that it is the current block grant that is being talked about. As far as the second question is concerned, I agree, of course, that this may be a problem, but we have regional authorities in the Faroe Islands that have a very good hold on the part that concerns the use of medicines and drugs for delusions and such. So very careful care is taken that nature should not be harmed by it. You are very aware of this, and it is also a sales value in itself that you want to be free of drugs of all kinds.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232637	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232639	I have heard that too, but I am nervous myself, because it is a very intensive sea farm that is being driven there. And there I am thinking of: the long-term interests of the Faroe Islands are precisely that one is careful not to do what it is called, the bacteria and those diseases resistant, precisely by preventing. The second was, in a sense, the block grant. I understand that in the Faroe Islands it will have been frozen. And actually, with the bnp in the Faroe Islands, which is higher than for the Danes, we could consider whether the Danes could apply for block grants from the Faroe Islands for a period of time instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232717	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232718	Thank you for the question. I have also heard that bnp for the Faroe Islands is higher than the Danish. That is why I have carefully looked through the papers today, but it is lower than the Danish, unfortunately. But Denmark can always apply for a block grant and see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232749	We thank you very much, sir. Edmund Joensen. There are no more questions. Then we come to the debate, at least in the first place, on the last rapporteur, Mr President. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003232759	Thank you for that, President. I have to say that it is a beautiful sight that we have from here when we look beyond Denmark's newly elected democratic assembly. It is not just the physical manifestation of the will of the people at the last election, it is also the culmination of a long, cool historical battle that ended well, which ended with popular rule in the country. To stand here and see the result is actually, if you think of it, so adorable a sight, that if I close my eyes, it is as if I have in front of me here a beautiful inland lake that is surrounded by green trees, it is a beautiful sunny late summer day, the sky is blue, and the birds are singing. When I hear the debate, the free democratic debate, it is as if I see the sun's rays, which find their way down between the leaves and branches of trees, and like enchant a magic light game on the surface of the water. That's adorable, sir. President. But then it is as if I am standing here on the shores of this vision with such a big, bad stone in my hand, which I will now throw out on the water and if not destroy it, then at least disturb it for a while. For now, the book I had on my nightstand during the election campaign was Joseph Heller's Catch 22... that is, the story of the American pilots during World War II, who were only allowed to go out on the important but deadly bombs if they were perfectly sane, at their full five, and were not allowed to sit in the cockpit if they were hit by the madness of the war. But the problem was that those who were normal did everything they could to pretend they were mad to avoid risking their lives while those who were they took happy and proud of themselves. That was catch 22. The logic of the system made it the wrong person to get into the cockpit. Then it was when I was reading this book on a late evening during the election campaign after a long campaign day that I thought: Democracy also requires its pilots. And in democracy we do not want the mad in the driving seat either; we do not want the despots, the tyrants, the egocentrics who rule on the basis of their own instincts and their own personal ambitions, their own vanity. No, democracy wants people in the cockpit who ignore themselves and make themselves a tool for the voice of the people, for the values of the people. Problem is, and here it is, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: That fight requires pushing others aside and pushing themselves forward in front of the media's lenses and microphones to get your own face to the people, your own voice to the people, your own image, your own opinions, that you like to get yourself squeezed into people's consciousness. I mean, it takes you to be a little egocentric. It also requires you to hang huge images of yourself in every other lamppost, and if you do, yes, you are even very egocentric. Then it was I that late night in bed thought this is democracy catch 22. The unselfish do not offer themselves; those who end up being the pilots of democracy are us with the big pictures of ourselves in the lampposts • us bigger and less self-centered. Of course, this is not a new observation. Tolkien said at the time that those who are willing to strive for power are often those who are least qualified to have power. Fortunately, however, the picture in front of us of the beautiful lake remains beautiful, because we can be sold after four years. And then we can spend the four years convincing the voters that we shouldn't do that anyway. Because we are right for the job; we are the unselfish types; we are the ones who break Tolkien's thesis. We are not the egocentrics; we are the true voice of democracy. On that basis, I would say, sir. President. - The debate is closed. It is called because in the very dramatic mountains surrounding the village more trolls live than anywhere else in the Faroe Islands. There are four inhabited houses in the village. Bjørn Brandenborg's grandmother comes from one of them, my grandmother comes from another. And with 50 percent. of the households represented in the hall here is the Trollanes, who are far strongest present in this room. And, sir. President, this is no coincidence. It is provided for, for in the old days the trolls did not always stay in the mountains opposite Trollanes. No, every holy king's night and night they came into the village, into the houses, where they held a terrible feast so wild that the inhabitants fled across the mountain to the neighboring village while this was going on. But once there was an old woman named Giðja, who was so weak that she couldn't make the long trip over the mountain, so she stayed in her house, she hid under a table. Then the trolls come down from the mountains, and they have such a wild, hysterical, diabolical party that she gets the scare of her life and sits there and just holds her head. But in the end she can no longer, and then she breaks into one: Jesus be gracious to me! And, look, Jesus' name didn't tolerate the trolls to hear. "Giðja loypti splitt í dansin· *Giðja destroyed our dance, they said, and went back to the mountains where they have been since. Sir. President, me and Bjørn Brandenborg are put in this house to tell that story. Laughter It's an important story. Because there are many democratic houses haunted by trolls these days. Nationalism and populism have rushed into many parliaments and are having a terrible feast. Widespread political Islam is trying to destroy the most valuable heritage of democracy in many countries. These trolls are not here in the Folketing, but they want in as they want in elsewhere. And to avoid that, it requires that we stand by our own and that we stand up for our own. This requires some to be the Giðja of democracy. And it's the two of us who are: Bjørn Brandenborg and myself. We are not sitting on the ranks of ministers; we are hidden away in the back row. One can almost say that we are hiding under a table, but our voice is important, just as Giðja's voice was important. And you have to listen to it if we are not to end up in a political catch 22 in this country and if we are to maintain the beautiful sight that I and the President now have in front of us here tonight. That was my main message. I do not want to go into so many specific matters. Since the elections I have been toured the ministerial office of this kind, and I have brought out many small and large cases, and I would like to sign for the great goodwill I have met at all the meetings I have had with the ministers. There is a clear will to solve the problems. I'm looking forward to it. We get a lot to do. I would also like to thank the former government for the fine cooperation that we had and wish the new government good wind with its work over the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003233800	Thank you. And now it falls to me to give the floor to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003233804	Thank you. You almost feel called to say something. From one Trøllanesboy to another Trøllanesboy I just want to start by saying: Takk fyri eina ordiliga góða speech. Thanks for a really, really good speech. You almost fret that we couldn't invite the rest of the village down so they could have helped to see this. I know the story about Giðja, about the trolls and about her yelling at Jesus to scare these powers away. I don't think that's what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale believes we have done in Denmark or in the Faroese Lagting or elsewhere. That's why I'm wondering if Mr. Sjúrður Skaale now, when we have this act and this intimate moment, could tell why it is that we do not have the trolls in the Danish Parliament or in the Faroese Laying. Why haven't we? And so thank you for the other part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003233917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003233918	Thank you for the question. That's actually a good question. If you look at Germany, Britain, France and Sweden, there are great tensions and great struggles within parliaments. There is no such thing in this Parliament. I think it comes from the fact that the open debate has been held. No opinion has been left out of the question. There are no opinions that are encapsulated that no one will touch. You take them out and debate them, and then people can see if they're rational or not. If you refuse to go on certain grounds in some countries, refuse to debate certain points of view, then they lie and grow in peace and for themselves, and then they break out and become a huge political force. It is extremely important that we take these forces up front and take the debate. That is the idea of democracy itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234011	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234015	Thank you. Now I just remembered that there are others who have opened their eyes to our homeland, to Trollanes too. Last week it came out that you've probably all heard that in connection with the new James Bond movie some scenes have to be shot in Trøllanes, where there are these four houses. It certainly made me think that things are going really well in the Faroe Islands, and we heard the previous speaker tell that too. I was wondering if Mr. Sjúrður Skaale might be able to say something about whether there is no danger when things are going so well that the trolls have now changed with James Bond that it could go too well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234059	Thank you. It is not so long ago that there was a Danish actor who played a leading role in a James Bond film, and now the Faroe Islands are being used as a backdrop in another James Bond film, so we are in the process of colonising the James Bond concept as it is. It is clear that there must be broad shoulders to bear good times, as they say, and that is a danger in the Faroe Islands at the moment, no doubt about it. You gotta be careful. The questioner mentions James Bond, and isn't there a scene where James Bond sleeps with one of these really handsome ladies, and she asks him: Do you really have to bring the gun to bed? And he answers, I'm only into safe sex. You have to be careful, don't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234147	Yes, yes; good atmosphere. We've got to move on, and now it's Mr. Knox. Thomas Danielsen. We're gonna have to sort this out now, even if it's late. The last person to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234204	Thank you for your speech, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. After all, the rapporteur mentions that democracy requires the right pilots, and I very much agree with him. Sjúrður Skaale i. There has been a new government in the Faroe Islands with the Samband Party in the lead, and it was not exactly the ones that were actually to be predicted to win the election. However, it is the case that Javnaðarflokkurin, in other words the Social Democratic Party in the Faroe Islands, which the rapporteur represents, is actually holding hands under the Samband Party, in other words the Left's sister party, in the government. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: is this something that the rapporteur will be able to teach the rapporteur's sister party in Denmark something about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234257	Sorry, I'm sorry: So the Social Democracy in the Faroe Islands is holding hands under the government of the Faroe Islands is wrong. The social democracy in the Faroe Islands, Javnaðarflokkurin, is in opposition to the government that has just been formed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234316	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234319	Then there's no need to pull it anymore. I understood from the news that the rapporteur's party was actually holding hands under the Samband party up there. So I'm sorry if I've been wrong. Because a slightly different government had been foreseen and, if that were true, I was very much in agreement with this with the right pilots, which is why I would have liked the rapporteur to perhaps be able to inspire his sister party Denmark. But it's not that good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234349	Then it'll just be a comment. By the way, I think that one reason why things are going well in the Danish people's government is that you do not dig into trenches. You are here in the house very cleverly better than really, very many other places to make broad settlements. It is actually something that is exemplary in Danish democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191003234405	Thus we came through the rapporteur's series in a rather festive way. And we will continue: Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004234420	It is in every possible way incredibly unreasonable to come after Mr. Sjúrður Skaale for these debates. Nevertheless, I would like to be allowed to wipe my eyes; I think it is a little relentless light after so many hours. No, I would like to thank you for an incredibly good debate. I have soon been a member of parliament for 20 years, and I really do not remember a great debate in here where there has been such a good atmosphere, and everyone deserves a thank you for that. We may disagree, we are, that is why we are elected for different parties. At the same time, I do not think we should have a second in doubt about what this means, both for our ability to produce results and for people's confidence in us, that we can do what we have shown today. So thank you so much. We've been far, far, far, from •Married at first glance to the animal kingdom. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl was asked earlier this day what kind of animal the government's alien policy was and he looked at me. I don't really know what that meant. I'm not gonna answer on behalf of Mr. Knox. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, although I have previously enjoyed being allowed to do so. Today there is probably most of all such a little old circus horse over most of us: we smell a little sawdust in the mane again, looking forward to getting started, and I can feel that impatience is great. For example: Mrs Sophie Løhde, the Left, has called for the government to save 3 billion. kr. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the I think it was a proposal that the Left was against. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wants us to introduce a differentiated retirement age. Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radicals wants us to abolish the education ceiling. I can reassure everyone that what we said before the elections still means away, and we intend to implement it as well. I am therefore delighted that the greatest criticism made by the government today from almost all parties is that we do not implement social democratic policies quickly enough. Thank you for that! This is, after all, a good promise for the forthcoming negotiations. I can't wait to get to grips with everything we need to do. I'm also a pretty impatient person myself, so it sort of fits pretty well. And we should not forget what we have already achieved in this enthusiasm. You have to say, we threw out hard. We actually made one of the first a broad agreement with all the parties of the Folketing, where we bought four elephants: Ramoline, Lara, Djungla and Jenny. What we didn't know when we started that purchase, and this isn't to be laughed at, is that one of the elephants had a friend, too, a best friend: a camel. The camel was, of course, Ali, and we were given the important information that it would be wrong to separate the Ramoline and Ali. And that's why we actually got Ali on board. So when the Danish People's Party in the second context has said that it was Ali's turn, then it is right. Unfortunately, Ali isn't feeling very well, and he wasn't actually a best friend of Ramoline either, so I guess it wasn't that good a deal we made. In fact, I was also a little worried along the way... since the camel is called Ali... for whether New Citizens would jump from the deal, but you didn't. Thank you. On the whole, it must be said that we have moved quite a lot in the animal kingdom today. There is probably a slight tendency for a little parrot to go into such a debate. I knew some of the words from some of us. Sir. Karsten Hønge asked Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether one in DF was a mouse or a man. I forgot the answer to that. On the other hand, I heard that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl outlined what he himself defined as the government's relaxation of foreign policy. And numbers are a grateful size: if I now produce according to the same logic, we have 56 elephants and 14 camels at the end of this parliamentary term and then we may have to have a completely new stable system. Think of how many nurses we can get with the same method of calculation. However, as I said in the opening speech, we should be careful a little bit about inflating our results far too much. I'm kidding. I understand that my opening speech was perceived as gloomy. Perhaps it is really a success, given that the new President of the Left recently compared my party with North Korea. It was then the same day that the cake was censored away from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl's video. And I understand that DF is a little bit tired of what you can sort of understand. In fact, I was truly surprised to hear that some of you, or others, perceived my speech as gloomy. First of all, because I am irrefutable optimist and with all my heart believe in Denmark and our social model. I love this country, not made by myself, but by the generations before. But despite the love for Denmark and my unwavering belief in what we can, I am genuinely concerned about some of the tendencies towards division, I see where the reality and differences between us have grown and where there is a risk that solidarity and confidence can erode or at least become less. Where a director can get millions in bonuses just to do his job, while others who have been worn out of doing a job cannot even be allowed to leave when they need it. I wonder whether we can stick to the solidarity, the trust and the cohesion that we have built Denmark on, and which I think we will actually recognise across the board if we do not know each other, if we do not meet each other and if we do not know each other's relationship. That is why we are going to fight for a right to early retirement for the most worn out. In today's debate, I understand that many have been taken up by Arne. The Left even mentions the proposal in a proposal for adoption. It's pretty big, and I hope it lasts all the way. I can also speak to Mr. Knox. Søren Pape Poulsen confirms that I like John Mogensen. Who can't do that, sir? Søren Pape? I could almost ask. There are, however, some who cannot do so, and I also admit that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and I actually share a taste of music, because we were both at the Danish top in the Box last year. I am also a fan of Sebastian, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen quoted. But there is something wrong in Denmark when our employees in the care of the elderly spend about half the time away from the elderly. That's not right. Is it gloomy? No. Is that the way we want a welfare society? Hopefully not. For all the time the sosu does not spend with the elderly, the teacher does not spend with the child, the educator does not spend with the smallest, all the time the nurse does not spend with the one who is sick, goes from what is most important. That's what I wanted to say. That is why I would also like to express my particular thanks to someone who has impressed me and whom I think had a fantastic debut, namely the President of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome! It was quite interesting to hear the conversation that was going on. It is not to talk ugly about anyone else in the Chamber; it is just not always that the depth and nuances and perspective come out in a political debate. It is quite well done to deliver it the first time you are in the chair as President. And if you're 27, it's terrifying to think about what that can lead to in the bourgeois camp. But we have to think new and we have to think creatively, and almost the best offer I got today was the idea that then let us go and ask the elderly if they are satisfied. Now it's going to sound a little too easy, but I think we need to think new, and I think we need to think big, and I think we need to think parts of the welfare society over again if we want to solve the problems that exist. With a rewrite of a quote from the former Vice-President of the Left, one could say: it is the people who have a Folketing, not the Folketing, who have a people. And that is enough with the approach we should try to go to some of the really difficult discussions. And we have a lot to rejoice about, and things are going well in Denmark. This is due to a fine, common merit of many decisions crossed and crossed. Employment is high, unemployment is low, we are prospering and Denmark is strong. We must also say that the picture will be different when we look out. Brexit, the recession in Germany... which is our biggest trading partner... and trade war. Just last night, new reports came from the United States, and it's troubling and yes, sorry for the expression gloomy. It is also a reminder of how important it is for us to have solid and responsible companies that create jobs and can export, and even if in this financial law we choose to roll back some tax cuts in some places, I would also like to emphasise that we cannot do this indefinitely. We need to be careful. We need a boost in welfare, yes. This requires us to roll back some tax cuts, but with what we see before us, one of the most important tasks for the Parliament that is starting its work now will be to ensure the best conditions for business. I think that the best conditions for an industry are also about education and research. We can then discuss that, but on my part it is really just an emphasis that with a brexit and a trade war out there we have to look after the Danish business community really, really well in order to secure the employment we want. It is also a reminder of the importance of a responsible economic policy, but economic responsibility is not just to cut public budgets and labour supply reforms. There is a need for a new kind of reform, among other things. with a focus on research and on education. A healthy economy is the whole foundation of our prosperity and of our welfare, and that is why we put welfare first. We have done so with the agreements with municipalities and regions, and we would also like to do so in the forthcoming financial legislation negotiations. I think it is a little much when some people say in the debate that there is no welfare promise at all when we propose to hire 1,000 new nurses. These are a great many new employees, and it will mean something to those colleagues out there who are running too fast. It will also mean something to those who are now admitted to a Danish hospital and do not experience the care and care they need. Is that enough, are we in the finish line? No. But does it matter? Yeah, of course it does. We will not get around the financial bill debate we are facing, strengthening our police and strengthening the tax administration. It is rarely the type of task that gets the most credit in the public discussion, but it is one of the most crucial things. Because if we do not trust our authorities, it is hard to have confidence at all. In the field of education, we were faced with savings of 1.2 billion. kr., but now here quite soon after an election we have found barely 1 billion. kr. to roll back some of the savings, to abolish the re-priority contribution, so we should not have those annual savings to continue the quality pool on vocational education and training and give a hand to some of the VUCs that are at risk of closing down and which, in my view, are crucial to whether we have an entire Denmark. There are, of course, other things too, but making sure that there are VUCs throughout the country, I think, is very important. Does this solve everything in the field of education? No. Do I still think it would be a good idea to abolish the education ceiling? Yeah. I just didn't say at any time that we could do it all at once. Is there a challenge with a taximeter of HUM and SAMF, as it is called in the political language of the social sciences university educations? Yes, and we have to see if we can go any further, but I do not pop my neck when, in a budget proposal, we can eliminate the savings that we are proposing here. But no one should be in any doubt that I would like to be able to go further myself, and I think we will have room to do that at some point. Then the benefit issue has usually filled a lot of the debate today. It is quite true that we have made an agreement on a temporary family allowance, better conditions for some children, and we also said that we would do so before the elections. I would also like to make it clear that it is not the government's position that we should just raise the benefits. In fact, I think it is fundamentally wrong to come here from the outside and just have access to the high benefits that we have in Denmark. I believe that an active effort must be made before you become entitled to benefits like everyone else. I believe that we need to put much more pressure on women with a non-Western background in particular, so that, when you are in Denmark, you learn Danish, you enter the labour market and take a greater responsibility for the society you are now part of. Duty and justice go hand in hand, and it must be in that order. But it does not mean that we should not also focus on problems of deprivation. We will be discussing a poverty limit during this parliamentary term. I wish we could have a poverty limit that actually reflects real poverty and would like to arrest what more people are using as an argument here today, namely the so-called poverty limit of the AE. No one has decided that poverty limit, but it is being used as such a witness of truth in the debate. And I would like to question that, because if you follow the figures, a family of children with two adults and two children is poor when, within a year, i.e. the available after tax, the income is about DKK 250 000. Is it poverty when after paying taxes you have more than 20,000 kroner? Back? If we take another family example, namely, a mother and a father and two big children, that is, teenagers, then the figure will rise to just over 300,000 kroner. a year after tax. Is that poverty? Actually, I don't think so. I don't believe this Parliament or this country or this society will solve real poverty problems until we start discussing what poverty is. To have 300,000 kroner. In my view, four people, two of whom are under the age of 18, are not poverty per year. And I believe that those who use the figures as an indicator of poverty do harm to the discussion. I would much rather we had a serious discussion with each other about what is right and right. Of course, it does not matter whether you have money or whether you can afford money, for example. leisure activities and, at the very least, a proper way of life. But the figures that are being used as a poverty limit will allow me to question today. I would also like to point out that I am in complete agreement when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen says that the best way to protect against poverty is to get to work. Then I hope that everyone here also knows that it is not entirely by chance who is not going to work and that there can be many reasons why some people never will. There we need a proper social safety net and it has been challenged in Denmark. We must also recognise that some of what has been inherited from one generation to another in Denmark is our strong feeling that we must contribute and that we must get up in the morning and support ourselves. And there is, of course, evidence that not everyone comes here and has the same attitude towards the society they have now become a part of. And that's where I think we're gonna have to no, I'm sure we're gonna have to be more precise in our demands. Of course you have to support yourself when you come to Denmark. As far as foreign policy is concerned, I have just a few points on top of today. After all, I am in favour of a strict immigration policy, and I would like to congratulate the previous government and the majority of foreigners' policy today for tightening up in some places, because that was necessary. But now to stay in the animal kingdom, I want to say that one stands and stands in the ground like a bull and claims that it is a relaxation of the whole of Denmark's immigration policy that Mint is coming back to a 13-14-year-old girl, as I know Danish speaks, saying that I really do not think it is serious, so that it should be a relaxation on an equal footing with making completely new family reunification rules or terminating the agreements we have in the field of asylum. Here too, we need to discuss things as they are. And there's too many people here, and it's drawing serious leads and consequences in this country, but it's not Mint. I believe that if we have the courage to do so, and if we dare, then in this Parliament we can find the balance between being tough when it comes to the influx to Denmark, family reunification rules, citizenship, gang problems, the fight against terrorism, and at the same time, for example. give Mint the opportunity to come back or cancel Lindholm. It is not because we should not find a new place to place those who are on tolerated stays and they must leave Denmark, and only then can I just say that in many ways it is the new ones in the class who have impressed today. Mrs Pernille Vermund has also had her debut on the platform, and I think that we in the Danish Parliament benefit from the fact that new parties are going to come up in us a little. Because it is true that we have patched up the immigration policy, and now there is a party that is asking us to start over, for example. with a completely new asylum system, and I would like to sign for that. We need new thinking, and that requires lowering our guard against each other, otherwise we will not find solutions. This brings me to the next point: completely new in class you are not, but I would like to acknowledge from the platform that when the Danish Parliament has moved so far on the climate agenda today, the alternative also plays a role in it. I am not sure that we would quite acknowledge this at the beginning, even more than suggested by the Alternative's rapporteur, but I dare say openly and honestly that both the Alternative, but also the hundreds, yes, thousands of children and young people who asked us on Friday after Friday in all possible contexts to get the climate right on the agenda, have helped to ensure that the June elections became a climate choice. What matters is whether or not we are doing something about it now. The EU is moving in a different way than we have seen in the past; business is moving; pension funds are willing to invest; and yes, the Folketing is doing so too. Today we have gone one step further because the Left has agreed to the 70-percent objective. And when we talk about it, it is very much the merit of the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radicals that the current government landed at 70%, because we also had to be pushed. You held on, and I am happy about that, and I have no doubt that the whole of Denmark can be happy about that. Industry and exports will be pleased about this, and our growth will be pleased about that. Most importantly, our nature, environment and climate will be pleased with it. Perhaps we should actually improve on what I am doing right now, namely to recognise that political opponents, whether they are close or far from it, can make your own policy better. If we are to find the solutions that are really interesting, that is to say really interesting, a new public sector, to solve the climate crisis, to find the balance on services, then we do not find them, by standing and asking each other short questions: does that mean, Prime Minister, that we want to abolish the free choice? That is not what I said; I said that we have to recognise that free elections pose some challenges, just as the welfare rights approach presents some challenges for the sosu who are out there today. Someone said to me: I can soon lay my head before I go to work, because you have decided on a road map anyway, what I should do and what I should not do. So if we're going to do this, we have to recognise that we're bringing in something that can help push our common agenda forward. It brings me back to the gloomy. We are not overcoming the problems of climate change and we are not solving the climate crisis by being pessimists or gloomy. I think we can only do this in the good old-fashioned Danish way, i.e. by pulling the work clothes and working together. Our people and our business community have been ahead of us politicians for a while, but now we are coming to terms with them. I am pleased about that, and I fully recognise how big and difficult the task is. Today's debate has shown this. Because there are some balances. We have set an ambitious target, but it should not be at the expense of equality and our social model. But it should not, of course, be, and I say this not least to the Conservatives, who have also been involved in the climate struggle for a long time at the expense of good Danish companies, our competitiveness and our ability to export. That's what makes it difficult. Climate change is also being felt in the North Atlantic, and I would like to express my thanks for the debate, including to all North Atlantic members. I had moments when you were on the platform, when time stopped, and you brought a very special mood to our debate. In relation to the children and Greenland, I cannot find words for it. I welcome the announcement that the cooperation we have begun is a good thing. If you ask me a few questions in the debate, do I think that is enough an appropriation of 5-6 million? kr., a new job that gets started and I think I'm going to answer no. And that's why I think it's a start. I was very impressed when I was in Greenland a short time ago. There I sat and had a meeting with the Greenland Ministers about all sorts of things: raw materials, infrastructure, Trump, foreign policy. Suddenly someone says: It is something strange that when there is a natural disaster in Greenland, you move in with a huge preparedness, and we solve the problems, and everyone is up top. When children are raped, mistreated and careless, we talk. I am pleased with the seriousness of the situation, and I am glad that we are talking so openly about it now; we have not always done so in the relationship between Denmark and Greenland. I experience that there is a will in the Greenlandic community in a lot of people to get this done, and I hope that a united Parliament • and I feel sure that we can • will do everything we can to solve these problems • everything we can at all. Now we have got it started and I consider it only a start and will be responsive to all the ideas that may come. Then there was also a somewhat heated discussion, one must say, about colonial times, excuses, what is right to do and what is not right to do. I have no doubt that an apology can be right. You have to mean it, and you have to want it, or it loses its credibility. And if it loses its credibility, it doesn't matter. In relation to the experimental children who were sent to Denmark, it is my clear conviction that an official Danish apology is the right thing to do. There is a Greenlandic request that the historical analysis be completed. I think that is correct. But since it was now suggested in the debate that that apology would never fall, I would like to say right now that I believe it should fall. And I think it can be a real step in our important, important relationship that we relate as much to what is behind us as to all the fantastic potential that lies ahead of us. This applies to the relationship between Denmark and Greenland; this applies to the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. We have a strong Kingdom community and we can also feel that the world out there is increasingly interested in us. I hope that we will go together into the future that we have, in an equal and orderly manner. I'm glad to hear that, sir. Edmund Joensen's words on climate cooperation on the sea and climate change, and we would, of course, very much like that. I wish I could say something just as beautiful and sophisticated on the basis of Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's comment, but I cannot go into troll terminology in exactly the same strong way. But I think we all understood what was being said. Let it be my conclusion, for it is true that in the world around us things are becoming more and more extreme, and there is more and more division, and things we thought we had left behind are gaining ground. We are one of the parliaments in the world that differs from some of the trends we see. Today has shown that there are differences, yes, but there is more to us than there is to us. And we carry the most valuable thing in our hands, namely Denmark, so let us take care of it together. I look forward to the debate, even though the time is running out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001253	Thank you in this round for the Prime Minister. Now it is the case that we have one hour ahead of us, and according to the agreement it is the case that the general rapporteurs who wish to do so are given the floor initially with extended speaking time, first 2 minutes and then 1 minute. And the same for the PM, of course. And that's what we're gonna do now, and first it's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001313	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for a speech that was certainly much less gloomy than the one we heard yesterday. I sincerely welcome the cooperation expressed by the Prime Minister. But when the Prime Minister, after his opening speech the other day, was asked to say a little more than the headlines, the answer was: I do not start with the concrete. And I don't think that's really getting any better this evening. The government claimed that it would work day and night to ensure a right to early retirement. But there are still no answers to who is included and, if I may say so, I think that the Prime Minister looks well-rested in view of the late hour. So little rest, though, has come to pass. The government would save 3 billion. kr. In the case of consultants, it is not quite clear who they are and when to do so. The government apparently does not really like free elections, but there is not really any answer to what will happen to the elderly, who are, in fact, happy that they have a free choice. But Prime Minister, politics is practical. That is why I would like to ask a specific question related to my speech earlier here today. Is the government ready to spend part of the economic space on the green transition in the years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001445	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001446	It is true that policy is concrete. A good example is, of course, when it comes to being really concrete, how easy it is to reduce the wage and how difficult it is to build up again. So you can conduct a specific policy, and then you can wing it off and say: now I have reduced an early retirement. And it's harder to build again. And what delays work on, I hope, new rules in the area of pensions are private agreements. The President of the Left is well aware of this. Of course, I could choose to say that we do not care about a request from the social partners that we should not put forward anything that could affect private contracts. I do not think the Left would recommend this, and I am quite sure that if the Left had the responsibility of government now, a desire from the social partners would be met. That's what's delaying. It is also that the model is difficult to develop. There's nothing new in it, and I actually have no problem saying it. If we wanted to set up a searching system, I don't think it would take very long, but when it's supposed to be a real right, it's hard. And I have no problem with something being difficult, and that something also takes time. And that will also apply in a proximity reform, because the easiest thing would be to say that we are now asking everyone to send out proposals for debureaucratisation on a website. We have tried that, but we have not got a better public sector from that. Now I am appealing to the fact that there were actually more party leaders who caught it that we are trying to think about whether we have actually come to overdog a welfare society with bureaucracy. Because then it is not a concrete change that needs to be done, so we must change our whole way of looking at the welfare society. Will we help to use room for manoeuvre on green conversion? Yeah, we'd like that. We have clearly said that when it comes to the room for manoeuvre in the coming years, it is covering the demography that we regard as the most important task.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001643	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001644	Thank you. That was a concrete answer, and I am pleased about that. And I am glad that the Social Democrats seem to have changed their attitude in this area, because if you are not willing to use room for manoeuvre, then there are three options: reforms, new taxes or lower public spending. And there I think I have a feeling of where the left will go. At the moment, there is such a rather strange situation in Danish politics, where the Prime Minister spends a lot of time talking down expectations and expectations that have been created not so long ago, while the Minister of Finance actually spends money, as if the good times never stop, without having just one suggestion on how to create the prosperity that is the prerequisite for the well-being that we all really love so much. The Prime Minister himself mentions it: we have a brexite on the steps, we have some ominous risks of trade war over the Atlantic, and the warning lights are quite bright in the German economy. There are, in fact, enough concerns to address. That is why I would also like to ask: is it now time for us to have a financial law that does not take account of this future and which actually makes Denmark poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001813	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001814	I do not agree at all that the draft budget we have presented makes Denmark poorer. And that is why we need to have a discussion with each other about what it means to conduct responsible economic policy. One of the reasons why Danish companies are well placed in global competition is that at some point research has been done into what they are selling today, in fact often in an interaction and fortunately in a closer and closer interaction. Moreover, it might be interesting to discuss how to get our public and private research funds to work even closer together. So, for example, when we suggest doubling what we are spending on green research, it is the best handshake you can give to a business that is dependent on us finding the new answers. One example is Færsk, who has said that one will be fossil-free by the year 2050 • fantastic reporting, it has huge significance. How about we, together with Danish companies, research developing the fuel that makes it actually possible? That is what would make Denmark strong. That is why we are proposing targeted investment in education and research, and it will then require some changes in some taxes. I think it is not only a viable but also a responsible path to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001927	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004001930	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for these comments at this late hour. I also acknowledge that, after such a day's debate as this one, there are a great many things that illustrate that there are many values that we at least seem to have in common here in the Folketing. And it also means that we have a parliament in Denmark, which we can say very well about, in relation to how we work together when we look at other countries. But it is sometimes only when you really find out what is under the headlines that you find out where things stand politically. And, of course, I also think that this evening the Prime Minister is very good at speaking in some general terms, in some headlines, but where we are also some who really want some more concrete answers. And that's an opening debate, too. For example, it is when it comes to when those near hospitals will be re-established, on which the Prime Minister went to the polls, and all the other issues that I raised. But there is one thing in particular that bothers us in the Danish People's Party and that we really think is a burden on Danish society and that I would like to ask the Prime Minister about, and which I have also tried to ask some of the others about during the day. And it is one thing that concerns foreign policy: we in Denmark have people who are convicted of very, very serious crimes for murder, for rape, for drug crimes in relation to security in Denmark, in other words in relation to the rules of terrorism, and who are being expelled by the courts, but who are still staying here in Denmark. As for those people, we had set out to try to create a situation so that they became more isolated from Danish society, so that we could have a little more control over where they were, namely on the island of Lindholm which has been made a laughing stock throughout the election campaign. And then a new majority here in the Folketing has decided that they should not be isolated as much as one could now do within the framework that is legally on the island of Lindholm. So that has been cancelled, but without giving a single answer as to what will happen to those people. Therefore, I would like the Prime Minister tonight to tell the Danish Parliament: what will happen to the people who will not be on the island of Lindholm? Where are they gonna be in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002132	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002133	Thank you for the question. I can say that the rapporteur and I absolutely share both the value and the attitude of the issue of sentenced people who have been sentenced to expulsion and people who have been tolerated, and I do not have any need whatsoever for any thought to be given to re-socialisation or for them to be spread across the whole of Danish society. These are people who have been convicted, who have been expelled from Denmark and who refuse to travel. Some of them have even committed serious crimes, and I would like to make it as clear as you can at all: they are undesirable in Denmark, and it is incomprehensible to me that our hospitality is abused by committing this kind of crime. So far so good. We share that. So the question is, what are we going to do about them? Under the previous government, we have jointly tightened the reporting requirements. It then presents some challenges with regard to the police I look down at Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and prosecutor's office, which we have to see if we can't solve somehow. Then there was a majority before the elections that agreed that the island of Lindholm could be in the right place. I have no strong views on where it should be. I am more concerned about whether we can create not just a centre structure, but that we can have a structure underneath the centres that are being sent out more, and that means putting greater pressure on the countries from which they come. I think that part of it is to make their conditions of residence while they are in Denmark as bad as possible. Lindholm was a really expensive solution, and I have to say from the local community that it was not a solution that was very much supported by the local community. It is now enough to get local support to house this group of citizens, which is why, of course, I am also concerned with the group of citizens who are paying the price today, namely in the current local area. To make a long story short: near hospitals, we are taking part in a plan for health reform and we are looking at how we can create a smarter centre structure. But the perspective and conclusion I share completely with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002345	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002346	Well, listen, that's just the easy part of the answer anyway. Hey, excuse me! With all due respect and all that: what was all about saying why there is no local support for the island of Lindholm. Yeah, I know. I mean, I'm not wearing blindfolds and fingers in my ears. I know. We have all been part of a long election campaign where we have discussed these issues. And it was just an instruction, a concrete suggestion, on how to make life more difficult for these people in Denmark by being more isolated in an island society. No matter where these people are, they spread insecurity, and people don't like it. Then there has been a majority here... some are also sitting close to me... who have decided that the solution that we had is not good, because it was too expensive, I understand, because it costs 759 million. kr., when you see it over 4 years, they said. It was too expensive, so we couldn't. Now it's been a few months, and then we'll just ask, but then what? I have also asked the people today, the parties responsible for this decision, and I have not received the hint of an answer to it. Then I ask the Prime Minister of the country, who is primarily responsible for the fact that the decision that we helped to make has been taken off the table: what then? Then there must be an answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002502	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002503	But what if it ends up with us actually having a solution to this before the Danish People's Party would have had it? Because it would take some time to arrange Lindholm for the people concerned to be there after we had paid a fairly large bill, and I know that the ferry had almost to sail back and forth at shuttle speed. They were not so completely isolated. In fact, I think some people even talked about installing buses so that you could drive directly to Copenhagen. Is the Danish People's Party absolutely sure that you would have the desired effect with Lindholm? I'm not sure. In fact, I think the most important thing to the Danes is that we have a system in which those concerned, if we have the opportunity at all, are sent out. 'Cause they're not supposed to be in Denmark. That is why we have undertaken the task of seeing whether we can find a wiser and better solution, and as soon as we are ready with it, we will of course put it forward. Even if we agree on whether that solution is better, we shall see. But I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002553	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002554	Thank you. And thank you both for your speech on Tuesday and for your reply today and for your cooperation, which is why there is now a Social Democratic Government, and congratulations on that. I went to a summer cottage during the summer holiday and stumbled over a glass of Nutella that I think was bought abroad. At least there was a slogan in English, and now I want to say it in Danish so that everyone can keep up. It said, "You can't make everyone happy because you're not Nutella." And when I had heard part of the Prime Minister's opening speech, I thought that perhaps the Prime Minister had had a similar glass of Nutella and then decided on the basis of such a principle of equality that we should make no one happy. Because it was as if the expectations had to be toned down, and if no one can be happy, then no one should be happy. You will not be able to feel the changes being part of the message in your speech. I thought maybe that was just putting the bar a little low. I think we should dare to take it seriously on the question of confidence to reach out for people to see some changes that are not just some we have talked about and where it is not just the case that we have had the right discussions, but real changes out there that you can feel. I think we should start now, and that is why I would just like to appeal to you to perhaps look at if it was not very good to start reducing CO2 I think it is a little difficult to see in the draft. And if we now write in the proposal for adoption that we should invest in education, it is a little strange that new savings are being proposed, among other things. in primary school and free schools. I therefore hope that we can agree that, although we cannot make everyone happy because we are not Nutella, we can at least have the ambition to make some happy: those who believed that a new majority would actually reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002757	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004002757-2	In many ways, the discussion has developed in the way I will probably actually use it when I stand up and say: Despite the fact that I know that the best regional agreement has been drawn up for ten years, and despite the fact that we are not only covering the demographic trait but are putting money on top of it, and despite the fact that we are putting forward a financial bill, where training savings are being rolled back, where there is funding for 1,000 more nurses, and where, moreover, there is an opportunity to negotiate both on something green and on welfare. The easiest thing would have been to say today: there you can see the new majority is doing what we said, and that is really, really good. It would have been the easiest. And that would actually be okay, even within such a common truth detector test, because it's true. And when I say something else, it's not to be expected. It's not to walk away from anything we said before the elections. We mean everything we said, and we also intend to implement it. My assessment is that the challenges in this welfare society are so great that, even if we do everything we want to do, it will not be enough, at least not this year one. Because in the whole discussion we have had today we have hardly talked about psychiatry, we have hardly talked about the area of disability, and I think I can say with certainty that we have not talked about the demented or the premature born or those where there are problems with fertility. There are plenty of challenges. And I am proud to be in charge of a government and a new political majority, where we not only cover the demographics, but there are many who do not even want to be built up on top. And I am sure that we can all go further together. I just want us to be honest with people and tell them it's gonna take some time. It's not to walk away from anything I said. I still believe that we should have proximity hospitals, I still believe that we should get rid of the ceiling on cash benefits. But I am not sure that we can do everything in the First Finance Act, and my hope is, of course, that there will be more so that we can lift each and every time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003008	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003009	Well, I guess my point was more to be honest about what it is, which is the important thing: where you want to measure that we can actually see the changes when you can't deliver everything. For politics is also a priority, and it is also a priority, in which order you take it. If you think it is a serious problem that an education ceiling was introduced because it puts a performance pressure on young people and forces people to make wrong decisions like not to carry out a bachelor's education for fear that you cannot then take the other person you had decided on or whatever it is, then you have to let it follow up the policy of what is going on. That is actually what I have been trying to say today, so for us it is absolutely crucial that people can see that we are not just able to gather widely, although it is good about ambitious objectives, but that people can actually also see that CO2 in primary school. And similarly in relation to poverty, that is to say, helping the families that have the least in Denmark, so that we do not steal opportunities from children. That is just where I would appeal to you to become the number more ambitious and dare to say: this is where you are going to see the changes and we are fighting for it night and day.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003136	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003137	Yes, but I like thinking very much, and in many ways we decide for ourselves how far we want to go, respecting that there is an economy that needs to be able to keep up. And, as has been said before, there are some black clouds out there which, of course, we have to think into the economic policy we are pursuing. Anything else would be wrong to me. But we have made our priorities. And it is not certain that it escapes completely with others. We say that the most important thing for us this year is to cover the demographic trait, that is, to get beyond what has been the discussion for a long time, namely to start with savings out there. That's the first thing. In the field of education, we say openly that the most important thing for us has been to get rid of the re-priority contribution and then to save those VUCs. But it could have been said that the training ceiling was the most important and that something else came after that. It's a matter of opinion. And so we have said from our side that hiring some more nurses in the country's hospitals is crucial because the nurses together with others cover a core function, and we believe that if we can hire more, we can together also create a better working environment that can infect our health care. These are some of the priorities we have chosen from. And you could have done something else. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003247	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003248	Thank you to the Prime Minister both for the speech on Tuesday, but also for the speech today. I think it is refreshingly honest to say that we are facing some major challenges in our welfare society that we need to start repairing. Now we have heard for four years that things are going extremely well in Denmark, and when you talk to pensioners; when you talk to children's families; when you talk to people who are sick or with people who are on cash benefits, they will say that it is not their experience of Denmark. Well, it went unbelievably well for those who have theirs on the dry, but not for those who sit on the edge of society, and that is what we need to start repairing. After all, something is happening in the Finance Act, a serious increase in public welfare of 5 billion. I think we should also acknowledge that there are things where we need to go one step further than what the government is proposing. For SF there is no doubt that it believes that it is time for, among other things. more care, and a little bit of love, in our day care institutions, i.e. to the very least, those who are 0 to 2 years and 10 months and go to our day nurseries. They're little kids who need to be seen. They need to know that there is actually an adult, not only when they have to eat or have changed diapers, but in fact, also when they just tug around a little and maybe are a little sad. It is also about children who are kindergarten children and about to go to school, because they also need to know that there are still enough adults to set them in motion and that they are not just being stored or cared for. This is really the boost we on the part of the SF would like to see done by minimum standards. Now I noted that the Prime Minister of the Congress stressed that there are now minimum standards in Denmark. I am pleased about that, and it is also in the understanding paper, so what we are about to agree on now is a model. SF would like to see a model of one to three in crèches, i.e. an adult to three children in crèches, and an adult to six children in kindergartens, and that we will phase it in before 2025, which we have also agreed with each other. What is the Social Democrats' view of a model of minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003456	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003456-2	Well, as the President of the SF will remember, we did not actually go to elections on minimum standards. We went to the polls to raise the standards and prioritise the children's area. The thing about steering that way isn't a flower that's grown in our garden. Do I believe that we can find a way with minimum standards without creating a new bureaucratic monster? Yes, I do, and I will insist on that too, because the idea of minimum standards is not, therefore, that we should employ more controllers to ensure that it is also enforced; the idea is that we should employ more adults. We need to start talking about how we do the best we can. We've started talking to the municipalities about this. It is true that we have written black and white, that we will jointly introduce minimum standards, which will have to be fully phased in by 2025, and I am counting on that to be one of the things we will be discussing in the budget negotiations, namely how we can take the first steps. Then I am pleased with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's first remarks, because I think one of the reasons why a speech by some may be perceived as gloomy and by others as very close to reality is simply that we live different lives. One of the places where I can really see it is the price of food. That is, when you see that in some supermarkets, probably primarily in Copenhagen, regular food can be bought at very, very high prices, without people really wondering about it, and then you know other families who sit with the offer paper and cross off and go hunting to get things together, that is just a picture of how different lives we live. So the way you look at how good Denmark is depends on where you see it. Many have been given more opportunities and have improved, and that is good. But there are some who are left and can see that things are rolling they're just not even part of it. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003702	Pia Olsen Dyhr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003703	I have no doubt that there is a difference between the eyes that see and that is why it is also so crucial that our welfare society works, because it is for everyone, and it must be particularly strong for those who are weakest. These are our children, and that is why it is so crucial that we get that boost. I have noted that it is not the Social Democrats' starting point that minimum standards should be introduced in the country's institutions, but do so, a little like when we introduced the class ceiling, which is, of course, about us wanting to put a barrister on how it should look in classrooms around Denmark. Then there are some municipalities that choose to say that they want only 24 pupils in the classes. There are some who have 28, and there are also some who break the ceiling by having a special derogation in special situations. This is exactly the same thing we have to do in the area of children: we have to make a bottom. It is no luxury at all to talk about a teacher for three children in a crèche or about a teacher for six children in a kindergarten. Therefore, when the Prime Minister himself uses the floor at the Congress, namely the word'minimum standards', it would be interesting to hear: what is behind the concept of minimum standards, and do the Social Democrats, the Prime Minister, agree with, for example, what is behind the concept of minimum standards? BUPL in their proposal for a model for how to handle this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003816	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003817	I agree that we need more adults and we have jointly decided that this is through minimum standards. I'm not gonna stand by the exact size of the number. And no matter how you turn it around, we're gonna get into trouble in this area because it's gonna be really, really hard to find enough educators to do this job. Therefore, we may also have to have a talk with each other about the content of our education programmes and perhaps about • now I am throwing up another big thing from the platform • whether we are educating in the right degree programmes. Do we have the capacity for the training we want and is the quality equivalent to what it should be? And then it's all of a sudden an even bigger discussion. But I am delighted, to make a long story short, for the discussion with the SF, but indeed also with the other parties, about how we do this exactly. We know that we have a common will and intention to strengthen the children's area, and that is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003919	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004003921	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Prime Minister for the speeches One of the things on which we have been very much in agreement during the election campaign has been the need for a boost to our welfare. And I can hear from the Prime Minister again now that what you are most concerned with in the government is ensuring demography. It is such a mysterious word that we constantly use in here, as if everyone else knows what it is, but we should agree, and also honest that demography is not a boost to our welfare. And if we are to be completely honest, demography is not a guarantee against more layoffs and more deteriorations around the municipalities. At any rate, I have begun to get the first requests from citizens who are sitting with local municipal budgets and cannot understand why there are savings proposals in the local primary school, since they had been promised something else and had voted for something else and had chosen something else. And I think it's important that these people can feel the first Finance Act. They cannot feel the first economic agreement, but they must be able to feel the first financial law. One of the things that we think is really important is our healthcare system, which the Social Democrats and the government also think is important, but especially psychiatry. Gitte Ahle, president of the psychiatrists, says that there are some 400 beds missing in the psychiatry right now. It's really violent. And half of the psychiatrists say that they must either daily or weekly prescribe patients who actually need to stay in the hospital. And we talk people with severe schizophrenia, anxiety, people who are suicidal, and some of them actually die after they have been discharged. It is something that affects the employees, the relatives, not to mention the patients. And we would like to see the financial law we face to be felt in terms of welfare and psychiatry, but we cannot find it in the draft budget. Where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004140	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004141	I agree that we are challenged in the psychiatry, and I think the right thing to do is to do what we talked about in the election campaign, but also in the weeks after, namely to have a real long-term plan for psychiatry, where we get some of the decisions that are not just about the economy; it is also about the economy; I would like to put a thick line on that, but also about some of the other things, for example. to ensure that we get some treatment offers that go against, but in reality we also get better at dealing with the problems before entering the psychiatry. In fact, I think we are a little on the same street as when I say that, in order for everyone to feel a boost in welfare, we also need a proximity reform; I could really transfer that to psychiatry because there are more problems in psychiatry. One is clearly that too many beds have been closed down. There are simply some people who are really seriously mentally ill and who do not receive the treatment they need. But I suppose part of the problem is that too many children and young people enter psychiatry, which we did not see there before. We live in a time when more children and young people are becoming mentally ill than before. And instead of thinking only in increased funding for psychologists and psychiatrists and medicine, it could be that here in Things we should also have a discussion about why our children are getting sick and getting something done about the underlying problems. So here, too, I would like to appeal to us to have a slightly broader discussion about distrust, because if we do not get around it, we can continue to spend more money on psychiatry, but we will not solve the problems. This then does not change the fact that we need a long-term plan... also an investment plan for psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004321	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004322	Yes, I can agree with that, but the need to think in the long and tough way of prevention and to discuss why so many more young people are mentally vulnerable and enter psychiatry must not prevent us from doing anything for those people who urgently need a bedroom. So I fully agree with the 10-year plan of action that we have agreed on. But we just cannot wait for a long action plan when there are people who are suicidal, who are being discharged and who should not be discharged and who need help. And that is why I appeal to us to find it in the Finance Act, because we should. We should find an urgent boost to psychiatry on the Finance Act. And we should find it so that it can be felt. What worries me is that when no money is set aside for psychiatry, when no money is set aside for minimum ratings, which is clearly a task for us to deliver the first steps in relation to this finance law, and when there are actually no green measures that can be measured on the climate accounts, then it starts to become a pressure. So I would just like to appeal to us to promise each other before we enter the negotiating room that what we come out with is a financial law that can be felt on welfare and that can be measured on climate accounting so that we can look into the eyes of the people who have voted for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004451	Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004452	Well, in terms of climate, you can easily discuss the order of this. We have chosen to say that it is research that we would like to focus on at the outset. It may well be that it has a much more positive impression than CO2 so I don't think it's so stupid to say: okay, we have a very ambitious target by 2030; what we are doing now is getting a lot more money set aside for what it takes to actually achieve the goal. I will certainly be able to stand up for this, especially when the Danish Parliament has a climate bill in place before Christmas and then we will start the climate action plan, which will soon have to sit down in a CO2 so here we are probably more concerned about the order in which we do things. The fact that we need to reduce our carbon footprints does not mean that we disagree. I would very, very much like to participate in the debate on psychiatry, but I do not want to stand on the platform and say that I believe we will solve all problems with one financial law. But the rapporteur does not make me say that I do not want us to discuss psychiatry in this Finance Act too, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004610	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004613	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech here. When the families are well, Denmark is well. We're all out of a family. Family comes in many forms, but basically it is the foundation of our lives. And we have a lot to be grateful to our family and families for. Even those who started small. When there was a family who decided to say: Should we not create a business, should we not put everything on one board, should we not start creating something? Those companies, after a few years, may have grown large into a company of 30 employees, 100 employees, and those companies could, of course, be in a situation one day when they would like to drive them forward in the next generation. It is companies that are everywhere in Denmark and employ 850,000 Danes. It is companies that contribute to living, active communities, and I think it would be incredibly good if the companies that contribute all the positive work today and tomorrow the daughter or son takes over. Why, then, is it important that the state should now have a greater share of the company's value when the company shifts from father to son, from mother to daughter, or which parent now switches to which child? I know I've talked a lot about this today, and it's not just something I'm pulling out of my back pocket and saying, "Now we're gonna have to ride it." That is because I am truly sorry about it, and I am sincerely indignant that you really think it is right to do so. They have created so many jobs and we are in a situation where some of them choose to say: well then, we may have to sell the company. Because we can't afford the generation shift. And in the worst case scenario, someone might buy them up and move the company abroad. And I simply do not believe that is the wish of either the Prime Minister or the Socialist Group. I refuse to believe that, and that is why I just ask: can we not find a solution so that we maintain our family businesses, even in the next generation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004834	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004004834-2	I have the same respect and love, I think I can almost say, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen has, to the family-owned Danish companies. We owe them a great deal, and in many ways they are the backbone of Danish business, not only in Jutland, but also elsewhere in Produktionsdanmark. I think it is important to say that what we are proposing is to bring the rules back to what they were in 2015. It sounds almost as if we are making a completely new inheritance system in such a pioneering way, and we have also discussed this in Denmark. I know that the rapporteur is opposed to this, even when it comes to other incomes or amounts of money that are being transferred. I wonder if there is a more fundamental discussion underneath this one too. At any rate, I remember that we had the opportunity to exchange a few words on this earlier. I think it is basically a healthy principle when you inherit something, that you then pay a tax on it too, and I think we look at that differently. So when it comes to family-owned companies, we are talking about the rules as they were in 2015, and we are in dialogue with companies about how we can do this in a way that does not happen, as Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen fears. That's right. I can confirm that. It is certainly not in our interest that such a thing should happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005010	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005011	Of course, I'm glad to hear that. I'm still excited to see where it ends. It is clear that I agree with the Prime Minister that this also covers a more fundamental debate. It does so completely, because I have to admit that we do not believe that there should be any inheritance tax for companies or private individuals at all. But when I spend a little time on this business, it's because so many others are also dependent on it, so a lot of people who go to work every day, and I understand that they're thinking: What does this have to do with it? I recognise that it will be brought back to 2015 level. But the reason we changed it and that some of us thought it was so important that we changed it was that we thought the old system was wrong. That is why I think that we should have a strong awareness of the many companies that are, as it were, being heard from now, and perhaps some of them have also been somewhat frustrated in the press. It's because they can see that this is going to hurt. That is why I think it is essential that we find a solution. I would like to see what is in the draft budget dropped. But if you do not want to, you can at least find a solution that takes account of companies. I mean, I can't imagine that we're going to participate in such an agreement, but for the sake of companies and Denmark, I'm just asking you to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005125	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005126	I certainly believe that we should take account of companies, and I think we should do that in our actions at all in this House. Over the past four years, many billions of dollars have been saved on education. I think this has been a fundamentally wrong priority. Thus, in a situation where, speaking of family-owned production companies from one to the other says they are going to lack skilled labour, it is strange that training has been spared. I don't think that's taking care of our companies. When the previous government took office, it was decided to cut down on green research. I do not think that is to look after companies, and that is why we must, of course, do this in the best possible way. I think it is a good thing that we have confirmed that there is also a more fundamental view that there is no desire for inheritance tax, and here we are really, really disagreeing. If there is anything that creates inequality, then it is that one can be allowed to inherit large fortunes without making a contribution to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005238	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005240	Maybe it's because it's almost 1 o'clock that I'm getting a little reflective. I'd say it's been a very special day for me. It is not just because we have talked about camels and elephants and Nutella, and the trolls from the Faroe Islands also came into the room, but because I actually think it has been a very honest debate and that it has been a very open debate. I was wondering whether it is because we have got a very young new government • average age is seen from the older perspective, which I have as soon a folk pensionist, low. However, many young voices have also been heard, namely from the new Members in the Chamber. I think there has been something in play that makes me really, really happy, I would say. That's good. But it is also necessary because the challenges we face are as marked as they are. So there is enormous responsibility here with us. Are we in between able to hold on to the possibilities and to manifest this new time and this new spirit that is needed to solve the serious challenges we face? So I think this is a special moment for us here in the Folketing, and it is also in the coming period. However, there is something that has become clear anyway, and that is that although there is a common recognition of the scale of the problem, I do not think the way to solve them is clear enough, nor do I think that the resources allocated to meeting these challenges today's date are present. That is why I really hope that the Prime Minister will listen with the curious ears that the Prime Minister has expressed today and that she really has a desire to find new models and will also listen to some of the ideas that are being presented. Our political rapporteur made a bid, namely green bonds, and with a reference to the Netherlands, where 45 billion were received in 24 hours. kr. To work with. So I just hope there's that sensitivity and curiosity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005501	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005502	I feel in a lot of ways, just like Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk. Today and the debate have been different from almost everything I have tried in here. I don't think it's the government's fault. Something has happened in the Chamber today that is different from what it used to be, and I think it suits us and I hope that we can take it with us. I think that all of us are under, and in some way have also become, the victims of a public and political debate which goes too fast and where we all too often end up in headline discussions. And we all know that it doesn't solve it. I agree with that, sir. Uffe Elbæk says that we are now about to be there when it comes to the goal, but we cannot see the way there yet. That's right. We must be far, far further there when we meet in one year's time, because then we will have the Climate Act in place, and hopefully we will also have a climate action plan in place. That is where we start taking some of the really, really difficult discussions. One of the most important, I think, is how we get electrified this society, because it's one of the green sources we have. It is extremely difficult to do this in transport, because we have so many tax revenues tied up on some cars that we can all figure out should not remain our primary means of transport, but how do we make that transformation so that ordinary people can keep up with, without losing many, many billions of dollars, but go in the green direction? We don't have the answers to those things yet. So I acknowledge impatience and understand it. We have to be much, much longer in one year. And I will probably be one of those who, a little stubbornly, also insist that research is absolutely, absolutely crucial, because I am one of those who believe that new technology is one of the keys to saving the problems of the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005704	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005704-2	What I am saying here may once again sound a little subtle, namely that the alternative really really wants the government to succeed with the project. It's not just for the government's own sake that I say it, but it's also because it would be a huge generation failure if this government and this Parliament didn't succeed with this project. Then we will kill the hope today among children and young people that they also have a future and that some adults actually take responsibility. So when I stand here representing the Alternative and say that I really sincerely hope that the government succeeds in the project, it is also because I focus on those on the street, those who have stood and demonstrated every Friday. This may be more of a comment to the Prime Minister, but I hope that it is also in the perspective we are entering into this cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005806	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005808	I think that what is so special now is that the pieces are about to be in place for the whole of Denmark to lift this. I am experiencing a population and, above all, our children and young people who have already taken the lead and who want to do so. We have a business community, Danish Industry, which now supports the 70-percent objective. You have agreed to our proposal to create binding partnerships in the area of climate change. We have the pension funds moving in. And we have to say that quite a lot is happening here in the Folketing as well. Now it has to be tested in the two rounds of negotiations that we are embarking on. But I believe in it and must say that I fundamentally share the analysis that if we who are here now do not deliver, some of the children and young people who are so concerned about this and who not only have opinions but actually act will be left at worst with a feeling that democracy cannot be used for what they are passionate about. And we are democracy for them until they can come in here themselves or have the right to vote themselves. That is why we must show that we mean it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005918	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004005920	Thank you for the floor. And thanks for a good line I don't really know what it's called here today. Thank you... I guess I have to say for the praise to both my mate and myself as debutantes. One of the special things about coming in here and changing the drawing room at home with this new workplace is that we have a wonderful library. And when we got our offices, I went to the library and borrowed a few books: a little about Lars Løkke Rasmussen, a little about Anders Samuelsen, a little about Carl Holst and the portrait book that Thomas Larsen has written about Mrs Mette Frederiksen. And now I would like to quote from Thomas Larsen's book, if it is possible: "Mette Frederiksen has also, at the time, been given a much more critical approach to the Islamic environments. And she has since helped to propose that Muslim free schools should simply be closed because, in her opinion, they support the construction of parallel societies, weaken the cohesion of society and, at worst, create a breeding ground for radicalising children and young people. She also believes that there is reason to look more critically at the activities taking place in a number of mosques here at home, and she blames herself for being too naive: we often go wrong into the foreign debate. It will be a question of religious freedom instead of a question of democracy. Of course, at all times I will fight for the right of men to believe in the god they will. But I will not give them the right to injure others in the form of hate speech against Jews, homosexuals, Israel, the United States or Denmark. I can't, but it happens in some of the mosques. It is subversive to society, and here we should not think in religious freedom," says Mette Frederiksen. For the sake of good order and in order to avoid misunderstandings, I must stress that New Citizens and I of course also believe that everyone in Denmark should be allowed to believe and think what they want. But can't Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen deepen her critical approach to the Islamic environments and the subversive influence of Islam in Denmark, which is described in Thomas Larsen's biography?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010130	Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010131	One of the things that saddens me most, both as a social democrat and as a woman, is that we have a discussion in Denmark at all about whether to shake hands or not. For those who won't shake hands with me, they won't shake hands with me because I'm a woman. And that someone at all thinks it's okay, and such a little fresh says, ah, it's just a matter of culture, hasn't really understood how women's oppressive that view is. I listened a lot when Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said earlier today that it had been difficult for him to land in the burka discussion. That's when I listened to it, 'cause I don't feel that way myself. It is not, of course, because I do not recognise that there are dilemmas in relation to legislation, but the burka is so oppressive and that it is in Denmark at all and now I use a word I would not otherwise use in many other contexts. It is absurd, and that there is anyone at all who is defending that one sex should be suppressed and have wiped out its identity, is only an expression of cultural relativism which does not understand the seriousness of the radicalised version of Islam, which is also in Denmark. And it takes place in the face of women's oppression, and it also occurs in the overlapping of crime, terrorism and the undermining of our democracy. And I consider it quite serious and dangerous, at home and in the Western world. That's my view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010316	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010318	Thank you so much. I am glad to hear the comments. I would like to ask the following question: what does Mrs Mette Frederiksen think, as a government, can be done to ensure that Islam is maintained as a private matter, that is, a religion that can be believed in in private, but that Islam does not have this subversive influence on Danish values, gender equality, freedom and democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010345	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010347	In fact, by doing what the rapporteur says. Denmark, of course, is based on freedom of religion, and I have no challenge with other people having a religion other than that I have. But the women's oppressive thing that some people use their beliefs to effect, we should not support in public space. I do not think that, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take a decision on this matter. gender-separated swimming in public swimming pools belongs in Denmark. I do not think so. And I'm sorry about the way this discussion is going on because we don't understand how oppressive it really is that boys and girls shouldn't be able to be in a swimming pool together... us who have been fighting for boys and girls to be able to be together in all sorts of contexts. It's just an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010442	Just as a service information service when addressing a minister, you use the title that is, and not necessarily the name. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line and we have reached Mr Gundelach's position. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010452	I would like to address this issue of red tape. I sense that the Prime Minister is quite sincere in his desire to succeed in debureaucraticising the public sector, and a very sincere question on my part is: how can it be that this has not been achieved before? As far as I know, it is every government since Poul Schlüter that has made some kind of trust reform, modernisation programme or de-bureaucratisation reform. We also had the magic 5 billion. kr., during the time LA was in government and yada yada. But it has never succeeded, and I am a little excited to hear the Prime Minister's analysis of why it has not succeeded. So, my own is, of course, influenced by my liberal beliefs in the sense that, on the one hand, I think it is very difficult to succeed in a debureaucratisation of the public sector here from Christiansborg, unless we close down the municipalities or at least have a rather violent fight with KL. And as long as we have a centralised collective agreement system, the trade unions will also continue to create bureaucracy with the agreements. These are some things where I do not have the imagination to imagine that it will change, but I hope that it is my analysis that is wrong. And then it is clear that I also have the conviction that the lack of competition means that there are not these market mechanisms that provide quality and then bureaucracy goes in and replaces it. And I would only like to say that I would be happy if the Prime Minister had another analysis, because I hope that the Prime Minister will succeed. I would like to hear what it is that exactly this government will succeed in debureaucratising, while all the others who have tried have not succeeded in doing so, and that is a genuine question. It is not a trick question. If the Prime Minister were to succeed, I would be very happy. It is just before that LA would propose an LA-S government that is so popular for liberal parties to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010705	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010706	I think it is true that some of the paperwork and bureaucracy are being produced in the municipalities. I also asked in my opening speech on Tuesday whether patient associations are willing to demand a little less firm rights and whether trade unions are willing to make a little less firm demands on behalf of their members. But we also have to look inwards here in the Folketing if we're going to do this. For example: pool management is not very popular. Speaking of the discussion here, we are making an agreement with municipalities and regions where we are giving more money for welfare, and the first question we are getting is how much money exactly is for the children's area. You can't do both. And if we want to know exactly how much money goes to the children's area or to the elderly area, then they have to be given in pools. And I promise you that it may well be that pools from in here create some welfare, but it also creates bureaucracy and paperwork in developing the pool, make application form for the pool, get some to check who is applying for those pools, and then they have to be evaluated, and then there are probably some who have to evaluate them. We're not running the public sector in this Parliament anymore; we're running it. So I think the prerequisite for us to do this is to have the courage to look inside. That is why the question is relevant because everyone has had the ambition, but none of us has achieved it. The reality is that every government in Denmark bureaucrats more along the way. And I don't think the number of legislative proposals is quite constant. So I will come back and regret that it will not be more concrete than that. I believe that this is a real, fundamental change in our welfare society that we must embark on. And the question is, do we dare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010902	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010904	Yeah, that's the question. I hope that a majority in the Folketing will have the courage to do so. I think the solutions are quite drastic, because we would have to get rid of a great deal of control. And I think you'd have an army of officials who would be ready to explain why every rule of eternity is necessary to preserve. However, I agree with the latter part of the Prime Minister's analysis, and I look forward to the government becoming more specific in this area as well as in all sorts of other areas. But we're gonna be bothering the PM about that in time and prematurely for the next four years. So let's look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010952	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004010953	Just to give an example, at one point I visited such a residence offer for people with brain damage. It was summer and hot, and then some began to tend to some lay sores. So the employees would like to apply zinc ointment. Before they can lubricate zinc ointment, they must call the guardian, because they are people with brain damage, to ask if they can call the general practitioner. Anyone who has tried to get hold of a general practitioner knows that it may well take some time. I asked, of course, the question: have you ever seen a guardian say no? They didn't. Have you ever seen a doctor who says no? Neither did they. Nevertheless, every time they apply zinc ointment, they must ring and be allowed to do so. I cannot help thinking in my quiet mind that some zinc ointment is still needed before it becomes a really serious problem. But this is also about medicine and everything else, and the test will then consist of that if we give freedom to professionalism and to management and the problem then arises with a person who has gotten nine tubes of zinc ointment or too many aspirins or something else really serious it's not to make fun of it • What does the Folketing do? Let me know if we don't say, we'll legislate. And that's what we shouldn't do. And that is the question whether we dare it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011113	The last rapporteur we reach is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go. Are we done already?).
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011117	Thank you very much. That is the last comment today. But I would like to thank the Prime Minister very much. We have also noticed that the Prime Minister's speech has been called gloomy. On the contrary, I would like to show my respect at least and say that I think it is credible, it is responsible and it is honest. And, seen through Greenlandic glasses, I also think that we are in a historically good stall. We are also among the impatient that the Prime Minister is talking about, but we think that there are some really positive political signals from the government and, in particular, from the Prime Minister, so thank you very much for that. We in fact want to take part in conciliation on the part of the IA, and of course we have entered into the financial law negotiations. But when we talk about socially vulnerable Greenlanders, we want to help talk about solutions. When we talk about defence or criminal justice or police, we'd like to sit with you and talk about solutions. We think that we know most about Greenland and the part that deals with me The Arctic. So I want to hear from the PM if it's something you're willing to open up to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011227	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011228	Yes, we are, and I believe that the closer we cooperate, both at government level and here in the Folketing, the better it is. I'd like to say that to all of you, because it's a big deal. Well, I think it's been a pleasure today. I know that we are still away at the beginning of a parliamentary term, but all parties have actually indicated today that they want cooperation and broad cooperation in slightly different areas. However, the goodwill of all parties and of all mandates to enter the negotiating rooms can give us a unique opportunity to make broad agreements, which will also stand and last for the future. This also applies, of course, to the Arctic, but also to Greenlandic conditions of a more internal nature, if you can call it that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011320	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011326	Thank you. The last time the Prime Minister used the word absurdly was in connection with Trump's desire to buy Greenland. And it can be said that the whole process that has been going on has also been an eye-opener in both Greenland and Denmark, compared to the fact that we have to do something else. We also need to look at how we can kiss the kingdom community more together. I think that where something is hanging us together is in the welfare field, and I think it is extremely courageous to take up this discussion on how to basically solve welfare challenges in Danish society. And I have no doubt that it is also something that Greenland will look at, because we are so inspired, one can say, by the way one has a welfare system in Denmark. However, thank you for today and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011410	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011411	I think that what we in Denmark need to recognise when discussing Greenlandic welfare conditions is that Greenland will always be extremely challenged simply because of its size and because it is difficult to reach; how much influence the weather has on everything that is going on in the magnificent country. There are only completely different circumstances in Denmark. And you have to understand how big challenges are logistical and practical under Greenlandic conditions, before you too, I think, as a Dane, understand why it is difficult to run a health system and a school system. There we just have a completely different set of conditions. But that does not change the fact that we need to use our experience together. I look forward to the cooperation and, of course, am incredibly happy to hear that one among others. on the part of Greenland, we think we have got into a good journey. We certainly do. So I'm very happy about that. To all: thank you very much for a good, long but really, very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011521	We thank the Prime Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. That is why we can proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011528	There are two proposals. V 1 by Jesper Petersen (S), Morten Østergaard (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 57 (S, RV, SF, EL and ALT), against 50 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. V 1 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 2 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Søren Pape Poulsen (KF), Pernille Vermund (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191004011616	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 8 October 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website and will also refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
