ParlaMint-DK_20191115095959	The meeting is open. Today is Friday 15 November 2019, and today there are the following reviews to the Danish Parliament's agenda: The Treasury Minister (Morten Bødskov): Bill no. L 64 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Recovery of Public Debts, the Tax Reporting Act and the Act on Active Employment. In the case of recovery proceedings, etc.) Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-35 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on citizens' right to demand binding municipal referendums). René Christensen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 36 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of chain liability for Danish private and municipal waste companies when dealing with Danish waste). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 37 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution refusing to grant visas to nationals of countries subject to visa requirements who refuse to accept their own nationals) and motion for a resolution No. B 38. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100058	The debate is open, and the first to speak is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Troels Ravn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100124	Thank you. The aim of the draft law is to adjust a number of tax rules in order to ensure against unintended use of tax legislation. Let me begin by saying that the IRS is a cornerstone of our welfare community. In Denmark, tax morality is high. We have a contract with each other. We pay our taxes, no more and no less, and that is the key to linking our welfare societies. It undermines the confidence of ordinary citizens in our tax system if it is possible for a few companies and individuals to create special arrangements, for example. to obtain an artificial reduction in profit margins or deductions for artificial losses in order to deliberately release them into tax. Such a course of action cannot be accepted as a community, as a community, and that is why it is also an important legislative proposal that we must now deal with first. I will briefly outline the main sections of the draft law. Around A- and B-models, A- and B-shares: The adjustment of the rules for the partial sale of shares by the majority shareholders is intended to prevent unintended use of the rules for profit-making, and we have been made aware through early warning from the Danish Tax Authority that models with split into several classes of shares in a company have seen examples of the use of the legislation for, among other things. to create artificial tax stock losses. Therefore, in the future, the majority shareholders will have to apply a new method to the partial sale of a share stock when the company has several classes of shares. About debt reduction: an adjustment of the rules on tax on debt reduction should prevent unintended use of safeguard rules on the treatment of tax deficits and interest relief in the event of debt reduction. The protection rules in force can be circumvented, and the safeguard rules must therefore be extended. Capital fund partners: the rules for the taxation of capital fund partners need to be adjusted. Again, early warning has demonstrated methods to avoid the additional return on capital funds partners being taxed as personal income. However, the draft law here also raises a number of questions which it is essential for us to deal with and give answers to. For example: Will the proposal prevent generational shifts so that the next generation can enter the company? And here's the answer no. Is the proposal a business barrier to business? No, the proposal does not prevent any commercial transactions, but merely prevents these transactions from having unintended fiscal consequences. So the Social Democratic Party therefore supports that bill. For the Social Democratic Party, it is crucial that we have a well-functioning tax administration that ensures that everyone in Denmark makes a fair contribution to our community. We will tighten our grip on the people who are trying to avoid making their contribution to the community, and we will put an end to aggressive tax planning and cheating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100439	You're welcome, sir. Troels Ravn. There are no brief comments, so we thank you for your efforts. We welcome Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100452	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with L 4, a legislative proposal to close a number of unintended tax gaps. The Danish Tax Office has pointed out that there are a number of ways in which tax legislation can be used to obtain unintended tax benefits. The aim of the draft law is therefore to adjust a number of tax rules in order to safeguard them against the possibility of obtaining unintended tax advantages. We in the Left have nothing against this; on the contrary, the closure of tax gaps is a priority for us. It is not okay that some people, although few, try to cheat on the benefits of setting up special schemes and thereby deliberately release cheaper taxes in contravention of the intention of the legislation. That's why we're also positive about closing these holes. We note that the consultation answers give rise to some technical proposals which we would like to see clarified in the work of the committee. In particular, however, we note that the draft law states that there will be a permanent surplus of 60 million in implementation. kr. 40 million annually; kr. for the part relating to intervention against the valuation of shares via equity classes and 20 million. kr. for the part relating to the circumvention of tax on debt reduction. That's what we're wondering. The closure of tax gaps should not give any additional revenue. This is a tax which should have been paid. And if there is an additional tax on our companies in Denmark, it is crucial for the Left that the proceeds are returned to business. We will not be involved in imposing additional taxes on business. We look forward to that being clarified in the work of the committee, and that is also what will determine whether we can support the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100647	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115100654	Thank you. The legislative proposal, as has already been mentioned, is about changing the rules so that they cannot be used unintentionally, and thus closing what we also call a tax gap. The proposal describes that early warnings, i.e. early warnings, have been given by the Danish Tax Office, which has found that the rules can be used. It is mentioned before it can be said that it has been fraudulent, and I think we should praise the Tax Office for reporting up in the system so that the problems are actually caught before it becomes a new tax scandal, cases of VAT fraud or other things that can lead to huge financial losses. So I would like to commend them for making those proposals so that they can be dealt with in good time. I do not want to go down all the points, as I support most of them, but I just want to address one of them, and that is what is called "Action against unintended exploitation of the average method in the calculation of share margins." ▪ It is about the use of A and B shares, which, as described, can be used to create an artificial tax share loss, postpone the tax on share profits or bypass dividend tax, and I fully agree that it is a good thing to stop it. But the solution here is to use the commercial value instead of the average method of determining the value of the shares in the future, and I find it hard to see how to determine the value of these shares. Because it is quite easy if it is a company that is on the stock market, because then you can fairly easily say what it is worth, but if it is a company that owns 100 per cent. of the shares and will split them up into A and B shares, how do you hire the value of the trade? Well, it's never been done. You write yourself in the bill and I'm just trying to read it out: "After the proposal, the main shareholders will have to distribute the purchase price according to the value of the individual share. This presupposes that the value of the shares is known, which in practice can be administratively challenging. ▪ So, it's not just administratively challenging, because how to determine the commercial value of something that has never been traded? It's gonna be a little something about just thinking about a number, and it certainly gives a lot of uncertainty. As I said, I do not disagree with the fact that we need to close tax gaps if they are there, but I would just like to announce that I would like to see in committee we go down and look at whether there can be another way to make it simpler, i.e. whether there is another way to adjust it here, so that it does not suddenly become such an administratively heavy problem for companies to determine the commercial value of something that has never been done. So, as I said, it's not to be against it, but we just think that our tax rules are complicated in advance, and that may be why these tax gaps arise. And then, of course, we can close the gap, but if it becomes something that is virtually impossible to manage, then it is not necessarily a good thing. Finally, like the rapporteur from the Left, I should like to mention that I have also noted that there is an additional income of 60 million. kr. in this proposal, and I would like to hear from the Minister first of all what they intend to do with this 60 million. kr. If you vote in favour of this proposal, you will be allowed to contribute to the implementation of this 60 million. kr. I think it might be possible to link this money to the next proposal, L 48, on CFC taxation, for example. imagine that we are some who would like to have a substantive test that potentially costs money. Could it perhaps be some money that could be transferred and spent on something else? At any rate, I think it is essential to get rid of what these 60 million. kr. I'm gonna use it, but maybe the minister can cover that up when he gets on the platform. These must be my concluding remarks. We support the draft law as a starting point, but we would like to drill into one point on the use of commercial value and how it is to be determined and whether there may be some possibility of doing so, so that it can also be managed in the future. But otherwise, as a starting point, we're gonna say yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101033	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no brief comments here either, which is why we welcome Mrs Kathrine Olldag from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101040	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we are also in favour of this bill, which, of course, helps to close a tax gap. One can never be against that if one has a tiny bit of common sense. So far, so good. Just like Mrs Bjerre from the Left, I am also wondering how this draft law can generate revenue, but it is very possible that we can settle this in a general and peaceful way in the committee work that I look forward to. Similarly, there are also some of the technical details of the consultation answers, which I would also very much like clarification on before we finally respond to what we are inclined to do in relation to this legislative proposal. So I look forward very much to the further work of the committee and look forward to discussing this quite excellent legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101134	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and welcome to Mr Seligman's report. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101140	Thank you. I'll be brief. The draft law clearly moves towards reducing tax evasion. There is estimated to be a permanent surplus of 60 million. kr., and SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101156	Thanks for that; short and cash. And then we welcome Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101206	From Enhedslisten's side, we can warmly support the intention and approach of this bill. The bill will close a number of tax gaps that can be misused to reduce tax payments through aggressive tax planning, and we from our side have a great focus on closing tax gaps and strengthening our tax base. And it's really good that early warnings can materialize in legislation that closes these tax holes. The first proposal is aimed at tightening up the way in which shares are qualifying and determining their value, because by dividing the shares into A-class and B-class you can create a shift between the trading value of the shares and the shareholder's acquisition amount, so that the majority of the acquisition amount is allocated to the B-shares, even if their trading value is actually lower. Even if there is a total gain on the shares, the B shares can be transferred tax-free according to this method, or even a tax loss can be triggered, which can be used to minimise the tax, and it is very good that this hole is closed. Then it is proposed to close a number of gaps on debt and interest relief. Right now, there are a number of safeguards on exchange-rate gains tax and deficit and interest-rate reductions that can be circumvented by the creditor selling his claim to a company in a group at a low rate to which the creditor will be prepared to surrender instead of a formal agreement. And, in accordance with the rules in force, no tax or reduction of losses or interest relief is required, even if the group is actually free of debt and even if the creditor who transferred the claim has the right to deduct losses. And it is proposed to adjust the rules so that there is also tax or deduction limitation in the situation where a group-linked company or a shareholder acquires the claim from the creditor. That is also very positive. Then there are elements relating to tax-free business conversion, and rules will be introduced to prevent the inclusion of private debts during the transformation, contrary to the intention of the rules, in the case of tax-free business conversion. This is a very good initiative. Finally, there is the taxation of the so-called capital fund partners, where there will be a tax on the return on profits, and this is a proposal that we can also support. However, in relation to the bill as such, when we look at it and there is reason to welcome it, we also have to say that we do not really think that the bill goes quite far enough in relation to the funds. Because we think that we should look not only at the capital fund partner and its return on capital, but at the taxation of the capital funds themselves in Denmark, as at present. is non-existent, and this is due to two factors. This is because capital funds are qualifying as a fiscally transparent entity. And that means that the company is not taxable, but that the underlying persons are, in other words, the fund partners and the participating partners in the fund. And that makes it difficult and close to impossible to tax them, because the people and companies involved can be found in many parts of the world. There may be a great many actors, several hundred maybe, they may be located in tax havens and elsewhere. So it is not certain that the Danish tax will be paid as it should. But if it were decided that in Denmark we would not qualify capital funds as a transparent entity, a company, but as a genuinely taxable company, then we could tax both the company's income and the dividends they pay, also to fund partners. And then, suddenly, it is not just the so-called return on the capital fund partner that is being taxed; there will be a tax on the entire income, of all the money that is being earned in the fund. Then someone might say: well, we are dealing here with companies that do not have a permanent establishment in Denmark, and the fund may be in a tax haven, it may be Delawar in the United States or elsewhere, and that is where the management of the fund sits. Yes, it is true, but when the fund takes over a Danish company it could be, just a perfectly thought example, a telecommunications company or an airport • then it is so that in our view it is clearly a revenue-generating business of the Danish company to which the fund belongs. It is therefore a matter of actual management, which is carried out on Danish soil, and then, in our opinion, it is also a permanent establishment. We therefore believe that it would be useful to return to the corporate tax law and to see whether, with relatively simple controls, a much more reasonable tax on capital funds could not be imposed in Denmark. But, of course, we have a positive approach to this proposal and we intend to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101734	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. It may seem a little strange that the President suddenly stands up in the middle of a rapporteur's speech. This is such a cautious signal to the rapporteur that he is too enthusiastic about his presentation and has spent a little too much of the time. So we are doing this in order not to spoil the rapporteur's speech. It's just because I can see that there are a lot of listeners today and warmly welcome! Then we have to go to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101805	Thank you for that, and thank you to the tax minister for the bill, which we, like the other bourgeois rapporteurs, are also fundamentally positive about. Because it is about closing some gaps in tax legislation so that tax evasion does not take place by making special business designs. We have the same concern that some of the other bourgeois rapporteurs have also raised, namely that there is some inconsistency in the way the draft law has been written. Because it says that it is to avoid potential tax speculation, in other words to avoid someone doing something that they are not doing today. But it also says that there will be an extra income for the Treasury of around 60 million. kr. We would like to have an answer to that from the Minister of Taxation in relation to how it is related. And we also feel that we would rather not be helping to raise the overall tax level in Denmark, so if more taxes come in on this bill, we would also like to know what to do with the money. After all, we do not think that they should be shoved away on higher cash aid or more refugees or anything else. We think they should then go for a reduction in some other taxes. So we would like an answer to that and then we hope that a solution can be found which we can also be involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101920	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115101928	Thank you for the floor. This bill is intended to close unintended gaps in tax legislation, and of course we are very much in favour of this in the alternative. Furthermore, in some cases, the draft law will lead to an increase in the taxation of generational change, which is also welcomed by the alternative. The bill was sent for consultation only after the submission, as it is confidential, and therefore we have not received a hearing response. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102001	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102008	Thank you. I shall try to keep my enthusiasm in my speech, so I shall be brief, although it is difficult when it is a tax matter. After all, this is a matter which some rapporteurs have said closes gaps. I find it rather difficult to use the word holes because it may be inappropriate. I mean, there are some legislators who have in the past made these rules that companies are acting on. But, of course, if there are any shortcomings, we have to go after them. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Conservatives, and indeed also the radical rapporteur, for referring to the problem of revenue. For new citizens, it is quite clear that if we are to be involved in changing something in a law that provides additional revenue, then we would also like to be involved in regulating how that money is spent, so that they not only go down into the treasury but stay out in business and out by the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102058	You're welcome. Enthusiastic short speeches are always welcome. Then we'll go over to mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102109	I would like to join with the other bourgeois rapporteurs in wondering why a bill to close down potential tax evasion could generate a revenue of 60 million. kr. extra in relation to the revenue we have today. This is not the usual way of calculating, and we are therefore afraid that the bill will cover a real increase in taxation, not only by closing what can be seen as unintended tax gaps, but by increasing the taxation of the Danes, because that is the only reason why a revenue should be set aside unless new rules have been introduced with the change of government. It must not be excluded that the general opposition of the Social Democratic Party to common methods of calculation has succeeded in making the office count in a different way now, so that it is now calculated so that when you shut down companies in the future can evade tax, you suddenly have money on the financial law you want to make with the red parties. But I'm sure we'll get an answer to that when the tax minister gets up. In the case of a real closure of the possibility of tax evasion, the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal. If, on the other hand, we are talking about an inappropriate increase in the tax burden on business, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102250	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why we are moving on to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102301	Thank you for that, President. May I not start by thanking you for what one might well call an overall positive reception of the bill. For the government, as the draft law also states, it is essential that everyone contributes to the community and that we do not have legislation which means that we can, as it were, be fooled. It is not right for some people to set themselves up with special arrangements for example. to obtain an artificial reduction in profit margins or deductions for artificial losses in order to deliberately release them into tax. That is what is at the heart of this, and that is why it is necessary to adjust a number of tax rules that ensure against accidental, as it says, the use of our tax legislation. The question of these early warnings is not new to those who have been dealing with the tax area for many years; it is known before, and therefore it is here entirely in continuation of it. As I have said, this follows up on a whole series of early warnings, where the Danish Tax Office has drawn attention to various areas where, as I have said, legislation has been the subject of accidental exploitation or where there may be a risk of this. That is why, as has been suggested, amendments are proposed in four areas. The first area is the so-called A and B models, where the draft law involves changed rules for the valuation of share margins by majority shareholders in companies with several classes of shares. The proposal here must then help to ensure correct taxation, and it is not possible, by using creative models, to create artificial losses or to avoid tax on profits. The proposal places emphasis on not burdening the broad shareholders by targeting this intervention to situations where there is a real or real risk of exploitation. It was the A and B models. The second area is the question of debt reduction. As I have already said, it is proposed to adjust these safeguards against deficit and interest relief after debt cancellations. The purpose of these safeguards is to ensure that no deduction is made for expenses that are actually never paid. Again, the aim is to ensure that the rules are sufficiently robust and applicable as intended, i.e. also in situations comparable to those of a formal debt waiver. The third area is the question of the capital fund partners, and we also propose the adjustment of taxation for them. The regulatory framework we are adjusting here is designed to ensure that the return on profits received by the parties in relation to the other investors is taxed as professional income. This return is really a remuneration for the tasks and role of the parties in the establishment of the operation and operation of the Funds. The adjustment shall, in particular, ensure that the capital fund partners cannot organise themselves out of taxation in accordance with the rules by obtaining additional returns in a particular form. Furthermore, the draft law also proposes that the partners in infrastructure funds should also be included in the regulatory framework. Infrastructure funds are funds that invest in and own infrastructure installations, e.g. wind farms or hospitals, and these funds are similar in structure to the traditional capital and venture funds, and there is therefore no basis for making any difference in the taxation of these types of funds. The fourth point is the question of tax-free business conversion, and it is then proposed to change the rules on the exact tax-free business conversion, and that part of the bill is intended to ensure that private debt cannot be included in a tax-free business conversion contrary to the intention of the rules. It is then proposed, when we look at the submission and consultation, that certain parts of this proposal should take effect from the time of submission, which has also been mentioned by a few, and this is because there is a risk of speculation in the tightening of the rules that we are now proposing with this bill. The bill was also sent, on the same grounds, only in an external consultation at the time of the submission. I would like to thank you for the debate. I myself also admit that this is very complicated and there are questions that we can also drill into in committee work, and we will, of course, answer all the questions that might come. A question has been raised about the fact that there is revenue here. It is always a discussion and we have had that discussion many times in this Chamber about whether there will be a revenue, so it is a tax increase when you close a tax gap? We have had that discussion many times. One might say that here there are so few that the Danish Tax Office considers the rules unintentionally to be used. Is that a tax increase? I don't think so. But it is true that there is revenue. How it gets there, we can easily calculate and pass it on in committee. What happens to the proceeds? In a similar way, as in other situations, it is part of the room for manoeuvre, and that is what can be used and used in different contexts, for example to close other gaps left behind, for example. on cars, which we have discussed in wider contexts too. So there's plenty of stuff you can spend that money on. But is it an increase in taxes that closes a tax gap which, so to speak, is being exploited inappropriately? I don't think you can say it is. Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102928	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115102934	I believe that the Minister has not been a tax rapporteur before, and that is why it is perhaps not known to the Minister that this is the first time in this Chamber that the Treasury has collected revenue from the closure of tax holes, and that is why it requires an explanation, and if not the Minister of Taxation can give the explanation, as the Minister of Taxation said on the subject, that he could not, after all, have been able to give that explanation in the Ministry. Why is it that the proceeds of the closure of tax holes have suddenly begun to be estimated when they have not done so in the past? Is it because this law really covers a real tax increase and is not just a closure of a tax gap?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103020	No, it is the case that the proceeds calculated here are based on the fact that the gaps have actually been used today based on the current rules. So that is what the revenue calculation comes from, and that is also clear from the draft law, so it can be said that there is nothing new in it as such. And now it's a long time since I've started my career in here, but I've actually started in the Tax Committee just for mr. Ole Birk Olesen's further cheerful remarks but it was long before Mr. Ole Birk Olesen started in here. So that's fair enough, but we don't have to whip that around anymore. That's how it is, that the proceeds are based on the fact that the gaps have actually been used today, based on the current rules, we've got and it's thus unintentionally utilizing these rules. That is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103119	After all, sitting on the Committee on Taxation does not make you a tax rapporteur. I think the Minister is aware of this or I hope the Minister is aware of this, otherwise things will be even worse than what the answer here suggests. Is it an early warning here or is it not an early warning? And can the Minister explain why no revenue has been expected in the past when the holes have been closed or where people have already been using the holes? Why have the accounting rules been changed here, or is it really a tax increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103150	It's an early warning, that's what the bill is all about. It's a guiding principle for the tax administration's work, not just under this government, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen too. Now I think we have had a few suggestions about it and there have been plenty of proposals of the same kind in the past. We can do just fine in the committee work. I do not think this is extraordinary in any way. I think it is good work that the Danish Tax Office has done for us here, namely that one has a look at the fact that there is an unintended use of the rules that are, and of course we all have an interest in taking action against that, I hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103226	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103229	Thank you. The draft law states that this is such an early warning, and that is an expression of the fact that it is a closure of some gaps that have not yet been used. Now I understand that the Minister is saying that it is because it has been used and then it is not an early warning. I guess it's just a gement tax hole, and it can be fair enough, but that's just not what you've written in the bill. That's why I'm wondering why you close a hole that hasn't been used yet, and that's 60 million. kr. It's a connection that seems a little funny. What I really wanted to ask is whether it is the Minister's view that it is normal practice that those who vote for this proposal and help to obtain funding also help to use it. So what I really just want to hear is whether the Minister is prepared for the parties voting in favour of this bill to also help find out whether it should be used on the next proposal, that is to say, a substantive test, for CFC taxation or something else, or whether it just goes into the box. Because I think the normal practice is that the money we help to find by voting in favour of the legislative proposals is also used.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103323	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103325	This is part of the room for manoeuvre, and we have discussions about this in many other contexts, so there is an opportunity for one of them. to take advantage of it. I do not remember that there is a direct resemblance between the fact that if there is revenue from a legislative proposal, those who vote in favour will also automatically take advantage of and implement it. That will be new, but of course you can make it as a requirement to vote in favour. If you want to do so, the parties are free to do so, but it will be a new interpretation of how to deal with legislative proposals in the Folketing. It will. This is particularly true in legislative proposals which are outside what can be said to be settlement-bound or contract-based. It will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103405	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103406	I fully understand that this is not something we have always said automatically when we vote in favour of a legislative proposal. And there are also a lot of agreements where the money has been spent on something else, but the money has not been spent here, and there is no automatic majority in advance. That is why I would just like to know whether the Minister cannot confirm whether it could not be good style for those who, after all, supported and helped to lift the bill, which is not something that has been tied up with an agreement or other, but something that is worth 60 million. kr., so could also help translate this money. That would be natural, because it is not something that has been used in an agreement or in any other way. So I just think that it could be a good, healthy parliamentary custom that, when you help to vote through some things that generate some revenue, you also help to spend the money somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103445	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103447	The Danish People's Party must decide with itself what they want to write in their contribution to the report. This bill is not going to mean that this government and I don't really think subsequent governments will change practices in this area either. There will be discussions in the future, I could imagine also with the Danish People's Party where you sit in financial discussions about how to get an agreement to be bound together, so to speak, when it comes to how the agreement is to be paid. At least for the time being, there has been a desire in the discussions we have had, including with the right-wing side here in the Danish Parliament, that we should try to look at the room for manoeuvre. Therefore, one might also ask whether it is wise to commit ourselves in advance. I would not do that, but you have to do what you want to write in a contribution to the report. This isn't going to be a new start on how to put the equation between voting for a bill and at the same time getting hand and neck over a revenue. We will come forward to discuss agreements where funding needs to be found, and there will be progress on exactly the same principles. Sometimes there will be room for manoeuvre, sometimes it will be directly funded. Where there's room for manoeuvre, the reality is that it comes from something like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103556	Next is Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103558	I would like to know if the Minister will define this as the closure of a tax hole.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103603	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103605	We are closing tax holes here because these are unintended uses of the rules that apply today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103611	Well, it's that I'm surprised, because now I've only been sitting in the Folketing for 12 years, and in the 12 years, a tax hole has never given a revenue, so what is it that now gives a revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103624	It is quite explicit from the draft law that it appears that calculations of revenue, as I said to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is based on the fact that the holes are actually being used today. That is the basis for its calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103638	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103642	A little on the same street, I would like to hear the government's general attitude to the tax burden. Now there's a bill here, where taxes seem to rise a little bit. Is it something that generally worries the government, or is the government okay with it if the tax burden rises in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103703	This is a little beside this question, but the point is that the government has the explicit view here that the practice used not only by this government but also by previous governments has been that there has been a tax administration that has been aware of whether there has been accidental use of the rules that we have. If somebody is taking advantage of some gaps in the rules, we need to stop it, and that's why this is all about. Does this revenue matter in the main context? You can have a long discussion about that. Does it have anything to do with the government's view of how the general tax burden should develop? I don't think so. The government is of the opinion that Danish business must have the best possible conditions for creating the growth and jobs needed so that this society can be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103750	Well, I guess it's not entirely unreasonable to ask the tax minister about his attitude to the tax burden. I assume that this is known as the curriculum, on which the Minister of Taxation is well aware. So I would like to ask again: what is the government's attitude to the tax burden in Denmark? Does the government not have the same concern that I have and that of my party, namely that we are nervous about the tax burden being too high in Denmark, or does it matter to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103814	The tax burden certainly does not matter to the government. Nor do I think I reveal too much, nor to the listeners who are here today, when I say that the Conservative People's Party and the government disagree on tax policy; it is obvious to everyone. And, as I have said, we also believe, with the financial law that we are going to put forward, that we can look at some of the very violent benefits that the previous government has made and then spend the money on, for example, children and young people's education. We think this is much better for Danish society's opportunities in the future, and it is also something which, for example, when we invest in education, is much better for growth and employment opportunities for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103854	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103856	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Minister could give concrete form to whether we have been talking here about existing legislation, some of which are being pursued by companies, and then we want to change it into a new piece of legislation that companies will then have to act on. So, these gaps that the Minister is talking about, are they some that are being exploited at the moment, or are they some that people, if the current legislation is being preserved, will start to exploit?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103931	The purpose of this is to close down what has also been described in the draft law as inappropriate when it comes to circumventing these rules that we have today. That is the purpose of it. So they must be closed so that the option is no longer there. That's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115103946	But that's not what I asked. I asked whether there are companies currently using this gap as defined by the Minister or whether it is estimated that some companies will use it in the future. Because if it is in the future that you consider that some companies will do so, it is often the case that you have legislation that you so much want to change because you think you want to change some rules. And then it's not a hole. Then it is just real legislation that is being changed, which creates additional revenue for the state. And then it is really a tax increase for business. Therefore, it is interesting whether at this stage there are companies that are taking advantage of this gap, or whether it is something that is forward-looking thought someone is going to come to. This is essential if we are to be able to say whether we are talking about an increase in taxes or whether we are talking about the closure of a gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104033	As I have also said to the rapporteur of the Left, the proceeds are revenue and that is what I assume Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen also refers to the calculation and based on the fact that the gaps have actually been exploited today. That's the point. That is why it is also what is at the heart of the proposal here, namely that we want to close these gaps, and we want to do so because it is accidental circumvention of the rules. We believe that the work underlying this is a good job. We do not think that, as far as the four proposals are concerned, those who make use of it should be given the opportunity to deal with the rules it is all about. Of course, here they have to pay what they have to pay for the community fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104119	Thank you. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104142	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104153	Thank you for that, President. The essential content of this bill is about the implementation of the minimum requirements of the EU tax avoidance directive for Member States' CFC rules. CFC stands for controlled foreign company. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that tax evasion must be combated and that tax should be paid basically in the country where you earn your money. It's in that light that this bill needs to be seen. Moreover, I have been working on this bill for a number of years. This is an important legislative proposal for our community, for our society, for citizens and companies, because common international action is important when combating international tax avoidance effectively. There's a lot at stake here. Many have shown interest in the bill understandably. Many organisations and consultation parties in connection with the bill have spoken to me and they have given their opinion, and this is positive and helps to qualify our legislative work in the Folketing. The Tax avoidance Directive is an important instrument to ensure that all EU Member States have rules to prevent tax avoidance that meet certain minimum requirements. Otherwise, we will have a race to the bottom between the Member States of the European Union, which will have major and worrying consequences for the so-called cohesion of the countries and for the well-being of the citizens. The bill ensures that Denmark complies with its international obligations and ensures that there is full implementation of the tax avoidance directive. With its proposal, the Government has found a balance that ensures that Denmark continues to have a robust corporate tax base, and at the same time we seek to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies. That is an important balance. We must always prevent unnecessary bureaucracy and we must work for good framework conditions for businesses. Danish companies must be able to be competitive. On the other hand, the government wants to put the bar above the minimum requirements of the directive, as Denmark is and must continue to be a pioneer in the fight against tax avoidance, and that we are fighting the opportunities for multinational companies to exploit low-tax countries to reduce their Danish taxation. We must also remember that minimum rates will mean both a weakening of existing Danish rules and a loss of revenue in the billions. The desire for a so-called substantive test has therefore not been met, as a result of which a response to the request is deemed to undermine the applicable CFC rules. It is therefore good that Denmark has great ambitions in this area. Increased taxation must be implemented where it makes sense and, of course, we must maintain a robust safeguard against fiscally justified relocation of income to countries with lower taxation than in Denmark. Social democracy fully supports the tax avoidance directive and therefore supports that bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and one is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104525	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must have rules that make it impossible to avoid tax evasion between the countries of the European Union, that is to say by having subsidiaries around, and that is quite reasonable. However, I would just like to hear the rapporteur why it is felt that we need to have stricter rules for Danish multinational groups than there should be for German multinational groups. Is it because it is the experience of the Social Democrats that it is typically Novo Nordisk, Danfoss or Grundfos who speculate to evade tax in relation to the other countries? After all, this is an over-implementation of an EU directive. In other words, the argument that we should have common rules is not just what has been put into this, but we simply make far stronger rules for Danish companies than we do for foreign companies, thus putting them at a disadvantage in competitiveness. They have worse opportunities to buy up businesses and other things, and I just do not understand why that is the aim of the Socialists. Avoiding tax evasion at EU or worldwide level is a good thing, but why should Danish companies have a tighter screw on this than other companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104623	It is the case that the desire for this so-called substantive test has not been met, and this is due to the fact that responding to this wish would undermine the existing CFC rules and lead to a substantially lower revenue. In this respect, it is important that the assessment is that general transfer pricing rules and exit tax rules, which are known in all countries, are not sufficient to address the risk of erosion of the corporate tax base. It can therefore be said that in Denmark we have had a different starting point than in other EU Member States because we have had some CFC rules which have provided a much better protection than they do elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104711	Well, I think it sounds a little strange that a substantive test in Denmark should undermine the rules in Denmark. However, this is part of the directive in which it is actually possible to do so, and other countries have chosen to do a substantive test. They have then considered that it does not completely undermine and that it provides open doors for tax evasion. So what is it that makes it said that in a Danish context it would be completely subversive to do a substantive test? There is, of course, the fact that it is just a test of whether there is actually a real business, i.e. whether you have any production or other things. How can it undermine the Danish companies precisely so that they do not have to cheat, but it is not a problem everywhere else in Europe? Well, that's the logic against it. Why should Denmark have a much greater need to tighten the screw extra hard here in relation to the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104756	It is quite simple because a desire for a substantive test is deemed to undermine the existing CFC rules. In this respect, it is considered that general transfer pricing rules and exit tax rules, which are known in all countries, are not sufficient to address the risk of erosion of the corporate tax base in Denmark. We must also remember that in Denmark we have had a different starting point from that in other EU Member States, which is why we need a different protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104832	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104834	I find it very regrettable that, with this proposal, the Social Democrats and the government are imposing stricter taxation on companies which have their head office in Denmark than on companies which have their head office in other countries. It is the case that if you are established in Germany or some of our other neighbouring countries, you do not have the same very large bureaucratic task that we are now imposing on companies which are headquartered in Denmark to explain in detail from which all the revenue from all your departments around the various countries comes. Why is it that the Socialists think that groups that have chosen to have their head office in Denmark should be taxed and burdened with much more administrative burdens than groups that have their head office in some of our neighbouring countries? It is after all to ask Danfoss, Novo Nordisk and other Danish companies to move out of Denmark and establish themselves in our neighbouring countries when you give them worse conditions because they are in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115104932	In fact, there is no evidence that specific Danish CFC rules in this area have led to a flag-out of Danish jobs. Actually, there isn't. With its proposal, the Government has tried to find a balance that ensures that Denmark has a robust corporate tax base, and at the same time we are also seeking to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies, and I have also explained that this is an important balance. On the one hand, we must prevent unnecessary bureaucracy and, on the other hand, we must continue to be a pioneer country. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is important that Denmark remains a pioneering country in the fight against tax avoidance and that we are fighting the opportunities for multinational companies to exploit low-tax countries to reduce Danish taxation. That is what is important for our society, that is what is important for our community, and we have found a balance here which is also important for our businesses and for our jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105039	Virtually all business organisations agree that this is a very heavy burden on business. This applies to Danish Business, Danish Industry, Danfoss, and this applies to a large number of organisations that have submitted a hearing response. But the Socialists then believe that you can just say to them that it is no burden. How can the Socialists be smarter than the companies about how much trouble this brings for companies? What is it based on when you say that it is not a problem when business shouts out here? It has rarely been seen that there are such sharp consultation responses as have been made to this bill. Why do the Socialists not take business concerns seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105121	We certainly do. I have also been visited, as I explained in my speech, by a great many companies and organisations of interest, and it has been important to have that dialogue, and when I say that there is an indication that the Danish safeguard rules have in practice limited the incentives for companies to move their assets and profits to other countries, there is in fact nothing to suggest otherwise. On the basis of European accounting information, the Ministry of Taxation finds that companies with head offices in Denmark have located approx. 3% of their mobile assets in selected low-tax European countries: the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus and Belgium. In comparison, companies headquartered in Sweden and Germany have more than 10%. of their mobile assets located in European low-tax countries. Therefore, this is an indication that in practice the Danish protection regulations have not limited the incentives for companies to flag out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105225	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105226	I should just like to ask briefly whether the rapporteur recognises that this is an over-implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105235	It would probably come as a surprise to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party too, with such recognition. This isn't an overimplementation. It is timely care that we ensure that Denmark remains a pioneer country and ensure that you pay taxes where you earn your money and that multinational companies should not have the opportunity to move their profits around to low-tax countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105302	I have to understand that: so the rapporteur does not think that Danish legislation is implementing more than the European Union requires?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105314	Yes, we do, and I have explained why we cannot accept a so-called substantive test. This has been a common theme in my rapporteur's speech. Here we have found a balance where we ensure that Denmark has a robust corporate tax base, and at the same time we seek to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies, i.e. the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105336	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105341	I just need to get some logic out of it or perhaps something that I cannot quite vote for in the proposal as it stands now. The rapporteur says that if we implement a substantive test in the Danish proposal, we will certainly lose billions. On the other hand, if we do not implement a substantive test, we will lose billions, according to Danish companies. So somewhere there is someone, at least as I see it, who either has difficulty figuring it out, or who has a few notes or access to some sources that are not quite clear yet. So can the rapporteur explain why these billions are at stake in the two rounds?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105440	Basically, with our proposals, we have found a balance that ensures that Denmark continues to have a robust corporate tax base, and at the same time we are also seeking to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies. And this desire for a substantive test has not been met, and this is due to the fact that a response to the request is deemed to undermine the current CFC rules in Denmark. So this is a defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105513	So when the Danish companies and companies have actually been applying the rules in force for many years and thus neither lost their competitiveness nor anything else knows it, how can it be that we still find that the introduction of a substantive test will give this less revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105537	Based on the European accounting information that we have received from the Danish Treasury, it is estimated that companies with head offices in Denmark have located approx. 3% of their mobile assets in selected low-tax European countries, namely the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland, Malta, Cyprus and Belgium. In comparison, companies headquartered in Sweden and Germany have more than 10%. of their mobile assets located in European low-tax countries. It is an indication that the Danish protection rules have in practice limited the incentives for companies to move their assets and profits to other countries. So we actually also have indications that with this bill we find the right balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105625	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105634	I would like to go into the substance of the proposal here. If a Danish company wanted to buy a company in Latvia, which could then in future be a subsidiary of the Danish company, the Danish company would have to pay a total of 22 per cent according to this change of law. in corporation tax as it is in Denmark, the profits of the subsidiary in Latvia, where corporation tax is 15%. If a company from Lithuania chose instead to buy this company in Latvia, they would only have to pay the 15%, which is also the corporate tax rate in Lithuania. Does the rapporteur not see that this is a worse position for Danish companies in competition with foreign companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105727-2	As I have explained several times, including in my rapporteur's speech, the government wants to put the bar above the minimum requirements of the directive, because Denmark is and must continue to be a pioneer in the fight against tax avoidance, and because we are fighting the opportunities for multinational companies to exploit low-tax countries to reduce their Danish taxation. As I have said, also on the basis of the figures from the Ministry of Taxation concerning the European financial information, there is an indication that the Danish safeguards regulations have in practice limited the incentives for companies to shift their assets and profits to other countries. So I have no concern that this will mean job losses, the loss of businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105814	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105815	Well, that wasn't really the answer to the question, but then we move on to something else. The rapporteur is now saying again that Denmark must put the bar higher than the European Union demands, and yet the rapporteur said no to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen's question as to whether the EU's requirements were being overimplemented. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105834	The desire for a substantive test has not been met, and this is because the wish is deemed to undermine the current Danish CFC rules. We need to know that, as the rapporteur also knows, our starting point is different from that of other EU Member States. Our starting point for our CFC rules is another, and that's why we've found this balance, and that's why we don't think this is an overimplementation. However, it is clear that we are going beyond the minimum requirements of the European Union, but as such there is no overimplementation because the starting point is different. We have some CFC rules other than the other Member States.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105920	Thank you, sir. Troels Ravn for today's efforts. There are no more brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Bjerre from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115105933	Thank you for the floor. This bill aims to ensure that Danish corporate tax legislation complies with international obligations when it comes to combating tax avoidance. We in the Left agree entirely with that aim. At the same time, however, we see a number of potential and serious challenges with the bill. Let me first state quite clearly: in the Left we are against tax avoidance. Everyone has to pay the tax that they are obliged to pay for businesses, and that applies to citizens. That is both fair and fair. And let me also make it clear that we in the Left believe that we must, of course, live up to international commitments. That is why we also need to implement the EU's tax avoidance directive, which includes, among other things: is the basis of the proposal. This does not alter the fact that a number of companies and organisations in the consultation responses have raised serious concerns related to the draft law, which makes a great impression and which we take very seriously in the Left. We are concerned about whether the bill hits harder than it is intended. We are concerned that the draft law will have economic, administrative and competitive consequences for Danish industry, which has not been fully clarified. If the criticism of the rules raised by the Danish business community is correct, the bill will have serious consequences for the international competitiveness of Danish companies, and the proposal will impose unnecessary administrative burdens on the business community. I have noted that the Treasury's own assessment is that the proposal will have no impact on business. It is therefore an assessment which is in direct contradiction with the consultation responses. We in the Left will not be involved in implementing legislation that puts Danish companies at a disadvantage in international competition, and we will not be involved in implementing legislation that imposes additional taxes and unnecessary administrative burdens on business. After all, the bill here is about Danish corporations, not foreign corporations, which do not pay their taxes in this country. And we must be very careful to harm Danish companies with subsidiaries abroad. If foreign subsidiaries are taxed more heavily than they are today, our international competitiveness will suffer. And particularly knowledge-intensive groups will be affected. It can also go beyond our green transition and opportunities to sell green solutions internationally just to take an example. As the situation is now, we do not feel confident that the Ministry of Taxation considers that the consequences of the bill are in line with the reality in which the Danish business community is operating. There are a number of unresolved questions from the Danish business community that we need to clarify thoroughly. We would also like a technical consultation to be held to get to the bottom of the consequences and challenges of the legislative proposal. We will take the questions further in the committee procedure • questions which we require to be clarified and answered before we can proceed with the legislative proposal. The draft law must not mean higher taxation of Danish companies and such a marked weakening of competitiveness as the consultation answers more than suggest. That is also what will determine whether we in the Left can support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110303	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110306	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur of the Left says that we need to implement the tax avoidance directive, and that can be fine. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left believes that the directive should be over-implemented, because when the Left itself was in government, there was such an implementing council which advised the government to avoid over-implementing, and they actually said quite clearly that this was an over-implementation. So I really want to ask whether the Left can vote in favour of this bill if it is an over-implementation, as their own implementation council said. Then the rapporteur also said that, if that were correct, I think the wording was what the business community said in their hearing answer, which was quite alarming and a rather cash criticism of it here, then it would be crucial if the Left could support it. Is it to be understood that you are going to vote against this? So, will you vote no if business fears about this are correct? I just want to get it right. I also think this is complicated and we take it up in committee and fully support a technical review. But I would like to hear: if it is true what business is saying, will you vote against this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110403	Generally speaking, we are opposed to over-implementation. In this area, we just have to recognise that we have a broad tax base, and the comments on the legislative proposal itself also say that there is no minimum implementation of this directive that goes further. There may be common sense in this if you do so with your eyes open. But you ask me directly whether we can support the proposal if what the Danish business community says is correct. No, we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110438	The questioner? No, we'll move on to the next question, which is sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110445	So I would just like to follow up and ask: how could what the Danish business community is saying here not be correct, that is to say that it is an overimplementation? In most other countries, at least throughout the Nordic region, you have rules and a substantive test, and you say that if there is a real activity in a subsidiary, then there is no tax to be paid in the country, but here in Denmark we say that if you have a head office in Denmark, you have to explain how all your income comes from the specific subsidiary, and make a huge account, which you then have to send to the Danish tax authorities. Well, how could it not be an overimplementation? I find that very difficult to see. I just wanted the Left to say they were against this bill. It is therefore very striking that even Ørsted, which is owned by the State, is delivering a hearing answer in which one goes against the proposal that comes from the government because it is a disaster for Danish companies that have subsidiaries around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110546	It is very worrying about the criticisms raised by Danish industry and, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, the criticisms we take very seriously are very impressive. But I also note that the Treasury says that this bill will have no impact on Danish business. How can this be connected? On the one hand, we have an industry that says that this will have a serious impact on the competitiveness of Danish companies, the ability to buy companies abroad, and on the other hand we have the Treasury, which says that this is revenue-neutral, that it has no consequences. That is what I am saying. We need to make a thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110623	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110625	I do not agree with the detail, because I believe that we have to vote against it and not just to make it clear in detail. I am perhaps just a little afraid that the Left is so afraid to vote against something that we ourselves originally put forward in the last parliamentary term. I think we should get rid of that. In other words, when we have consultation answers and when we have a consultation process, it is to clarify whether there are any problems in the things we are putting forward. And when there is such a massive criticism here and there are such massive problems, there is no shame in saying: then we should not go through with what we otherwise thought we should do. Well, it would be the right thing to do in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110702	Yes, but if you vote against something, you have to know what you are voting against. And we believe that there are a number of questions here which we simply have not been fully clarified and we do not feel comfortable with the answers we have received from the Treasury. And that is why we will insist on having a thorough committee procedure in which we can raise some of the issues that come from the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110729	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110734	Thank you. I just want to ask the rapporteur whether, in the opinion of the rapporteur, this is an over-implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110744	It is not my job to assess whether something is an overimplementation or not, but there is certainly no doubt that it is not a minimum implementation. That is also directly in the legislative notes. We are going further than what we are doing if the directive had been implemented as a minimum.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110802	Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110804	Okay, well, then it's per. definition an overimplementation if you go beyond what the minimum requirements are. When the Left stands and says that one is generally opposed to over-implementing EU rules, there is always a 'but'. I would just like to make it clear that if this is over-implementation, and I hear the rapporteur confirm it is because we go further than just implementing the minimum, then the Left really supports the over-implementation of EU legislation on Danish companies, if you support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110833	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110834	After all, we have some broad tax rules in Denmark, and that is what this bill proposes for us to continue to have, and that is why it is an over-implementation. I'm just sensitive to the fact that the Treasury's assessment is that it's revenue-neutral. That then stands, as I also replied to a previous question, in direct contradiction to what the Danish business community says. And that is what I am saying, so we need to clarify whether there is a contradiction there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110901	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110904	Can the rapporteur of the Left confirm that the consequence of this legislation is that if a Danish kitchen company has a subsidiary in Latvia which produces kitchen items, then this company in Latvia will have to pay corporation tax at the Danish rate of 22 per cent, whereas their competitors in Latvia, which is owned by Latvian companies, will only have to pay local Latvian corporation tax at 15%.? And can the rapporteur tell us what the sense is in taxing Danish companies in Latvia harder than Latvian companies are taxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110943	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115110944	No, I can't. I cannot answer that, and I cannot answer the reason why foreign subsidiaries of Danish companies should be taxed more heavily in this country. That is precisely why I am saying that we need to take these concerns seriously and that we need to find out what this is going to cost for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111009	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111010	As far as I am concerned, it seems obvious that Danish companies which have subsidiaries in, for example. Latvia must be taxed more heavily on corporate tax than its local competitors. That is why the question to the Left is this: if it is so obviously foolish, why can't the Left say that the Left will vote against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111031	I actually think I made this very clear in my rapporteur's speech. If this bill weakens the competitiveness of Danish companies, as the consultation answers so clearly show, if it means that there will be so much more tax on Danish companies, then we cannot support the proposal. That is why I say that we need to clarify this in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111056	Thank you. Then there's no more questioners. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111105	Thank you. You could say that this bill is extremely complicated. I think I have now dealt with several hundred proposals in the area of taxation, and this is probably one of those that is clearly at the top of those that are hardest to understand, which the commentary on the 157-page consultation answer might be a very good proof of, that is, the short version of the consultation answers is 157 pages. This just leads me to say that, in relation to such legislative proposals, we as legislators are deeply dependent on the fact that in the official work, that is, in the Treasury, and in the companies concerned, we can agree on it, and then we can lean on the consultation answers. And there's the problem with this bill that you absolutely can't. There is the Ministry of Taxation on the one hand, and on the other hand, the companies have completely run off in the other direction in order to warn against this bill. This makes it quite difficult to say where the cut should be. Hopefully, the committee procedure will help us with that. The legislative proposal is about slightly different things, but I will only dive into what is called CFC taxation, which is coming, in the light of the fact that we have to implement the tax avoidance directive, which is about preventing cross-border tax evasion methods. It is, after all, good that there are safeguards, so that you cannot simply move mobile income to subsidiaries in low-tax countries and thereby avoid paying taxes in Denmark. That is a good thing, and that is precisely why we already have rules on it in Denmark, so it is nothing new. What is new is that it is now EU rules that lay the foundations for it and that Denmark then chooses not just to follow it down, but to overimplement these rules. And that is what can be seen from the consultation answers, that is to say, the disagreement comes from the companies saying that it will cost them a lot of money and that it will be quite heavy to manage. And on the other hand, we have the government that says it's revenue-neutral that it doesn't cost us anything. But the fact is, when we look back at it, that this is an overimplementation compared to what other countries such as Sweden, Finland and Germany choose to do. So one must obviously feel the need for us to tighten the screw extra hard for Danish companies that can move money around between subsidiaries, compared to what is needed in other EU countries. And it's kind of hard to understand what the necessity is of it. After all, this bill makes it very much influenced by estimates. It seems like it's gonna be pretty difficult to manage. And I would like to say that in my party we are very much in favour of the fact that the business community is also calling for an exception for companies that have a real activity, that is to say what is called a substantive test, where you are looking at whether it is not just these mobile incomes that you can move around with, but whether there is actually a real business activity in such a company. And wouldn't it be possible to exempt them from this tax? And should we not also logically be exempt from CFC taxation if it is a subsidiary in another country which may have exactly the same tax rate as Denmark? Because then there's absolutely no reason to be able to do this tax speculation. Well, if we have a corporation tax of 22 percent. and the other country has a corporation tax of 22 per cent, there is not so much reason to move around the money, but yet, as I read it, it will be subject to CFC taxation, and I really do not think there is any reason to make it more bureaucratic than it is. I have been in dialogue with some companies and I will try to read out what Danfoss, for example. writes in their hearing answer, and I quote:... it has the presumption against it that the need for protection rules in Denmark exceeds what is generally the case for the countries with which we typically compare ourselves. In consequence, the overimplementation of the directive (ATAD) proposed by the Ministry of Taxation would generally be detrimental to the competitiveness of Danish companies. Novo Nordisk says: "The draft law challenges Novo Nordisk financially, administratively and internationally. Novo Nordisk would therefore strongly urge that a Danish version of a substantive test be re-examined in order to exempt companies with real economic activity located in countries with which Denmark has concluded a double taxation agreement, so that, like today, these companies are also not taxed at CFC level. ▪ That is how you can actually continue to take consultation answers after consultation answers, and I think we should listen to the business community in this case where they provide such critical consultation answers. However, I would also like to say: what is the need at all for the European Union to interfere in this? Well, it comes from an OECD standard. And by the way, we are being overtaken by the coming, as I understand it, next December, i.e. next year, a new OECD agreement that is overtaking it here. So what exactly is the need for this? So it is the European Union that says that an OECD standard is now in place, and then we must hurry to be active and then implement it, and then we will just as well screw it up in relation to companies, and then the EU and Denmark will be weaker in competition. And I really think that is a little too bad, because I have no objection to the fact that there is a CFCs tax. But why is it that we cannot just lean on the OECD, which is a much wider forum than the European Union? In other words, international tax planning is not something that is going on among EU countries; it is typically something that is going on all over the world. After all, the OECD is Canada, the United States, all sorts of countries. Why do we not lean on the OECD standard instead of leaning on an EU directive? Finally, I should like to say that at the moment we are running out of time, although one could spend more time on such a complicated bill that on the basis that is now in place, the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill. We need a technical examination in committee, but I would also like to say that we are going to go for such a substantive test, in other words to check whether it is a real company, as many of the consultations have said. I think it would be obvious to reconsider. And then we will also aim to ensure that this does not overimplement EU rules, so that we do not put our businesses at a disadvantage than we do in other countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111618	Thank you. There are no comments to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Oldag, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111629	Thank you very much. The intention of this bill is very good, but in the Radical Left we are still sceptical. This is particularly so because we have here a proposal that has received overwhelming criticism of a wide range of large resident Danish companies operating internationally. We are concerned about combating tax havens of all kinds, and passive shell companies and speculative setting up of subsidiaries will be very happy to fight against, together with the rest of Parliament, together with the European Union, from which this proposal comes. However, the proposal lacks precision, because when the proposal does not include a substantive test of subsidiaries, it is because the tax minister believes that the current Danish rules adequately weigh up the possibility of introducing a substantive test. On the other hand, as the previous rapporteurs have said, Danish Occupation, Dansk Industri, Dansk Byggeri, Danfoss, Ørsted, Novo and a large number of other large Danish companies argue that the bill is too vague and that it cannot be interpreted by the text as to what is imposed on CFC, so these companies necessarily have to budget with this uncertainty when bidding for large procurement projects. In other words, they believe that they are put in a very unfavourable competitive situation, and that is what costs them the money. It can cost billions in revenue and thus also cost the Danish state, is their argument. It is not unusual for legislative proposals to be criticised by interested organisations and companies, but it is unusual for criticism to be so massive and so unambiguous. We are therefore not prepared to vote in favour of the proposal as it is currently before us, but we would very much like to be involved in qualifying the proposal so that it meets both the aims of the law and, as far as possible, meets the criticism. We must be careful so that we do not pull the curtain away from the home companies and companies, and whether this means the introduction of substantive tests or other amendments that promote the quality of the proposal must be clarified in the further process in which we in the Radical Left look forward to participating. For, of course, we must live up to our international commitments and, of course, we must implement EU directives and, of course, we just have to do it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111847	Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111852	Thank you very much for the liberating speech. It is good to see that there is some sense on that side of the middle of Danish politics, and I think it is very, very positive that you actually listen to the consultation answers that come in from the professional organisations. I really hope that the Radicals will stick to this for some time to come, because we have recognised from our side of the House that, although we had originally put it here too, we have listened to what has come of comments. I think it is a very good approach that you actually take these consultation processes seriously and then listen to the comments that come in, and then are also willing to eat your own pride and say: it may be that what we originally had in mind was perhaps not the very wisest thing. So I hope that Radicals will try to convince the government that it will also be a good idea for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115111949	On the matter of eating one's own pride, I would like to say that I also have a feeling in this debate we are having, that this is actually about both sides of the House, because this is really a serious matter for Denmark, which we need to find out together; together we need to find out how to make the best possible legal material. One of the things that has also influenced this process is that it is a bill which is a re-submission, so the previous government has also tried to work its way through this and has also incurred the same headaches. So, although we are also delayed in relation to the timetable that the European Union had imposed on us in relation to the implementation of this directive, we simply have to try to resist and breathe deep into our stomachs and do this properly so that we do not destroy it for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112032	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112039	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Radical Left for thinking about and safeguarding Danish business. There is indeed a need for this. We may be looking into economic hard times in the form of a recession. We do not want the Danish Parliament to overimplement EU legislation that could harm Danish companies. That is why I would like to ask the Radical Left rapporteur whether one agrees with the recital that if you implement it here, that is to say the overimplementation that is now in place, it will harm Danish business and also significantly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112113	That's what it looks like. That is what we can read from the consultation answers, and it is massive and unambiguous that it will. Then, of course, we are on the other side with a tax ministry which claims that it will not. In this way, we are often in contrast to a period of consultation or a process in which we can work towards each other and find friendly solutions before we may reach this Chamber. We just have a situation here where we simply have to take political responsibility and find out what this is like. So the short answer will be: Yes, it is. I would also like to say to the rapporteur that over-implementation is not necessarily always bad. That may be a good thing, but in this case the consultation answers are quite clear: that is not the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112201	If we now get this technical statement and in-depth study and it still turns out that, on the one hand, the business community is saying that this is deeply damaging and that, on the other hand, the Treasury maintains that it is not harmful, will the Radical Left listen to the business community and still vote against, or will you go with the government and the Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112222	As I also said in the rapporteur's speech, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it now stands, and so the proposal will not be implemented either. The logic says that there must be some kind of change and what we can then negotiate in that process will come forward. I also hope that the process will qualify all of our insights. I am very, very interested that they will have the technical consultation carried out, which is not just a technical review there is a difference but a hearing in which the parties and the consultation parties and the stakeholders must also be consulted. I would like to take this opportunity to organize so that we can qualify for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112305	Thank you. Then no one else wants to ask a question. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112314	Thank you. In principle, the SF can agree to the bill. It is about the implementation of international rules aimed at reducing tax evasion, and we are very much in favour of this. Denmark, however, already has relatively strict rules in this area, and therefore there is a balance in terms of harmonising the rules internationally, but without weakening the Danish rules inappropriately. In this light, the SF will have indicated in the further work whether the existing Danish CFC rules will be weakened by the draft law and, if so, which and what less revenue is deemed to be associated with them and whether this is offset by other elements of the bill. I would like these questions to be clarified in the further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112355	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservatives, wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112359	I'd like to ask if Mr. Carl Valentin has read all the very, very critical consultation answers that have come from professional organisations. I know that the SF is a party that would like to see taxes rising, and it is very concerned that nobody should be spared cheaply, and there should be no tax evasion etc. That is quite fair, but it could also be liberating sometimes if there were some nuances in business policy, saying that there are actually also things that can be unfair to business and that we also say no to. It is therefore a question of taxing Danish groups much harder than Swedish and German groups, and it cannot therefore be right from the SF's point of view that, because you choose to create jobs in Denmark, you have to pay more in tax and have much more administrative burdens than if you place jobs in Sweden or Germany. SF must also ensure that Danish businesses have reasonable conditions that match those of our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112456-2	I am very aware that the business community in the consultation answers is quite critical of this, and that must of course be compensated. After all, we are listening both to the business community and also to what is being said on the part of the Ministry, and that is a balance. But as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also said earlier that this is a relatively complicated proposal, and we continue to work on it, and that is also why we are asking some questions in the course of further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112517	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112520	Thank you. I would almost venture to say that we all agree in this Chamber that there should be CFCs taxation, so it is not a discussion about being for or against. The question is just what is the need for us to tax our big companies more heavily than other competing countries do. I understand that the SF is almost afraid that this is too lax. I just do not quite understand why, if you have read the answers to the hearings, you cannot see that there are clear warning flags that are being lifted by huge companies also by business organisations. And it is virtually unanimous • Danish Construction, Danish Industry, Danish Business, all of them. What is it in the SF's eyes that is the need for us to overimplement, so why is there a greater need to regulate Danish groups harder than we do in Germany or Sweden or Finland?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112602	It is not, of course, because there is a need for over-implementation as such, but of course we need to ensure a system that best combats tax evasion. We are very aware of the criticism that has been made, we take it very seriously, and we will also take it further in our work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112614	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112615	After all, it is largely about mobile income, i.e. royalties, interest rates and other things that can be moved quickly between companies, and not about the actual production of goods. I would really like to hear the SF's proposals for such a substantive test, i.e. where you pull out those subsidiaries where there is actually a real business, i.e. where it is not CFC taxation, i.e. mobile income such as royalties and interest rates, but where you actually produce some product that you sell. I would like to know if it would make sense for them to be withdrawn. For that is the second thing we want to avoid, that is to say, tax evasion can be done by moving royalties and interest rates around quite quickly, after which there are now high and low-tax countries. After all, it is not healthy, and we agree that the rules should be there, but why not withdraw those subsidiaries that actually produce something. That is what a substantive test is all about. Doesn't SF think it would make sense to actually pull out the companies that produce real goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112705	I am sorry, but I think that is simply too technical for me to deal with this, but I would certainly like to deal with it in the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112712	Thank you for that, and then there are no more questions. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115112735	We would first of all like to acknowledge from the Enhedslisten that the government has chosen to maintain the Danish CFC rules and not to implement the tax avoidance directive as a minimum. Indeed, the tax avoidance directive is an example of EU legislation that is well-linked because it makes minimum legislation, and then individual countries can choose to take the lead and implement better and higher standards than those adopted in the European Union. That is also the case here. Moreover, this was also to a large extent the case with other parts of the tax avoidance directive that we have discussed in the past. Then there is the discussion on substance testing. I think we might as well touch that right away. After all, the CFC rules are about ensuring that taxes are paid on the income of a subsidiary. After all, the CFC rules controlled by foreign companies are about laying down objective rules as to when the tax should be paid. These are safeguards that companies must comply with. If you go in and do a substantive test, it will require an individual, so to speak hand-held, investigation of the specific companies, and that will of course shift the burden onto tax control rather than applying objective safeguards. It will be an undermining of the rules of protection that we set up to ensure that the correct taxation takes place. Therefore, the test of substance is not the way forward. It would be an undermining of the whole idea, the intention, behind the CFCs tax and the tax avoidance directive, namely that more is being ensured that the tax to be paid is also paid. We simply do not believe that the purpose of implementing a tax avoidance directive should be to weaken the Danish rules. It works against the spirit of the bill. So we are pleased that the government largely retains the current level of protection in the CFC rules. Then there is a change in the legislative proposal in relation to the CFC rules, which is about giving groups an option as to whether it is the CFC income of subsidiaries or the total income to be taken into account. It is a little technical, but I think that the bourgeois can perhaps also acknowledge that in today's debate it is an administrative relaxation, as far as we read it, that if a subsidiary is located in a country that has a higher corporation tax than that which is in Denmark, then it will be obvious that that company will probably choose to be taxed in Denmark. Therefore, there may be some administrative relaxation here in order to make it easier for companies to comply with the rules. That is how we immediately understand it, but it is something technical, and we will probably ask some technical questions about that. The draft law also contains adjustments concerning transfer pricing documentation, and it is also a tightening-up which is very sensible, and we can also support that. Finally, there is the change, and I think it is worth spending some time on that, especially in view of what was raised by some bourgeois parties here about the substantive test of the definitive deficit deduction rules, which is, of course, the result of an EU judgment, the so-called Bevoladom. It means, of course, that even if a company has actively chosen not to have co-taxation for Denmark, it can nevertheless be deducted from a final loss of its foreign company. That deduction can then be obtained in Denmark. In short, when the French branch of a Danish company goes bankrupt and is wound up, you are left with a loss, and since you have just closed the French department, you cannot get the deduction in France, because there is no tax account in the following year, when you can get a deduction for previous years' losses. It's a bad show, but with the verdict here you have to be able to come home to Denmark with that loss and get a deduction from the Danish corporation tax. This breaks down the fundamental symmetry of tax law: that income, taxation and deduction are linked. Normally, you will not be able to obtain deductions in a country where you have not paid taxes, but that is what the European Union thinks you should be able to do in these cases where you have a final deficit. This is a very, very strange principle, but the European Court of Justice considers that it would violate the freedom of establishment if a bankruptcy of a French company could not be wiped off on the Danish Treasury. I think this is another example of the EU having a problematic impact on Danish legislation, and we would very much like to have qualified legal treatment on whether this opens up the possibility that the Danish Treasury is now about to pay for all kinds of and impossible bankruptcies around it. I know my time has passed, President, but if I may, with the permission of the President, spend an extra minute on this very technical bill...
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113305	It's hard to say no when you're asked so nicely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113307	Thank you. We just need to figure out what this is actually going to cost. Our view is that this judgment, the Bevola judgment, actually gives rise to a general review of the rules on international co-taxation in the corporate tax law, which allows Danish companies to deduct foreign losses on an ongoing basis, i.e. losses that are not final. So why do we need to have two different rules on deductions for foreign deficits at once when, in principle, we should not grant deductions at all? If we are to have a discussion on substantive testing and a greater discussion of the rules on international co-taxation, I think this must also be part of the discussion. Because here we are dealing with some Danish rules, which are much more relaxed!
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113405	Thank you. It was, of course, an exception, but it is a complicated proposal and it is a quiet Friday, so an exception was made. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113414	Thank you. Let me just quote a few words from Novo Nordisk's hearing answer, that is, what they have said to this bill. They write: "The draft law challenges Novo Nordisk financially, administratively and on international competitiveness. And they write a little earlier that it is completely incomprehensible that the government wants to introduce such a complicated set of rules that directly harm the competitiveness of Danish companies. Why does Enhedslisten want to reduce Novo Nordisk's competitiveness? Well, I am in favour of Enhedslisten wanting a lot of money in the box to finance all the things that Enhedslisten wants to spend money on, and that is a perfectly legitimate political point of view. But can not even Enhedslisten also recognise that it is inappropriate that companies with head offices in Denmark should be taxed more heavily than companies with head offices in Sweden or Germany? It damages the competitiveness of Danish business in competition with companies from other countries. Surely none of us can have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113528	So it's not as simple as sir. Rasmus Jarlov is trying to make it. It is about having some tax rules that ensure that we get the money in the box we need and that the tax to be paid is paid. That is why we are laying down safeguards, and these safeguards must be tightened up in such a way that they are administratively as sensible and as unburdened as possible for companies; so do we. There is no doubt that with the rules there will to some extent be an administrative burden, but we do not think that we are unnecessarily imposing a burden on companies in this context, because we really think that the proposal, as we read it, is in itself such a basically sensible one. But once again, it is also a question of balance that you put the cut right, so that, on the one hand, you do not introduce rules that are too square, but, on the other hand, you also introduce rules that actually work. And a test of substance, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has advocated today, will greatly effectively undermine the whole intention and spirit of these rules, and therefore we are not in favour of a substantive test.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113644	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113649	A substantive test will mean that you are not allowed to establish pro forma company structures in other countries in order to move taxation out of Denmark to countries where you have lower taxation. The substance test is then that you check that there is actually activity and that those entities abroad have just not been created in order to make tax speculation. I think that is very sensible. That is what we think in the rest of Europe as well. That is what the rest of the Nordic countries think. So, if Novo Nordisk buys a foreign company, why is it that Novo Nordisk should be taxed more heavily on the money they earn abroad than a Swedish group should be taxed if they buy the same company abroad? It is a huge problem for Danish companies if it is the case that they cannot compete to buy units abroad because they are taxed more heavily than if their competitors do exactly the same thing. It is not a joke that these extremely tough consultation answers come from Ørsted, Danfoss, Novo Nordisk, Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv. That's because this is a big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113758	Yeah, I've seen and read the hearing responses. In other words, it is about finding the right balance between a tax system that actually works and which means that we have the tax we need and a tax system that is not so square that it becomes, so to speak, too administratively heavy for companies. Now, sir. Rasmus Jarlov not the opportunity to speak a third time, but Mr. Rasmus Jarlov must also acknowledge that if a substantive test is introduced, there must be a hand-held, individual approach to each company, which will very much put pressure on tax control. And if you go down that road, I can promise you that a great deal of additional resources will be allocated to tax control so that you can keep an eye on all the possible gaps that will arise from the introduction of a substantive test. And I certainly hope that the Conservative People's Party is well aware of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113854	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113856	I kind of agree with the basic substance. It is always about balance, of course, when you make such rules, but if we adopt this bill as it stands, no country other than Denmark will have such strict CFC rules that include real business activity in subsidiaries. I just want to ask Enhedslisten if one can not just reflect on whether the balance has been achieved. What is the need for Denmark as the only country to have such broad CFC rules? It is not, of course, about the fact that we should not have rules, and it is true that this is a balance where the cut is made, but why should Denmark as the only country have such broad rules for the taxation of CFC income? That's what I don't understand. What we're talking about is whether the balance has been reached. If we are the only country in Europe to do so, perhaps there should be a little reflection on whether it is perhaps just a tooth too much we tighten the screw. At least I think that's worth considering.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115113945	As I said, we think that the cut is very sensible. But then I would really like to hear Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær about something in relation to my comments about the Bevola judgment and the very lenient rules that exist for international co-taxation, where Danish companies can continuously deduct losses in their subsidiaries abroad for the tax payment they have in Denmark. I know only Denmark and perhaps one, perhaps two other EU countries, which have the rule that is a really, really lenient rule for Danish companies. So if we are going to discuss where the right cut should be between CFC rules and other rules, which relate to what falls within the scope of the tax avoidance directive and which is about international co-taxation, I think we should discuss a little more about how the regulatory framework is generally coherent, also according to what I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech under L 4, the point that we had just now, which is about how we should ensure that capital funds operating in Denmark and buying up companies actually pay the tax that they should pay, which they are not doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114058	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114059	It is a very good political example of how one can be asked about one thing and then, on the other hand, ask a question and answer something quite different. So, the question was actually very simple: does one think that the balance which the Enhedslisten is doing a lot to say should be there has been achieved when Denmark as the only country has such a tough CFC tax? No other country has, and that balance has not been achieved. What we were trying to say was if we didn't move the dividing line a little to one side. It is not, of course, for there to be no CFCs tax. I agree with the Bevola judgment. It seems illogical. I mean, you shouldn't have a deduction in a country where you're not jointly taxed, and then you could deduct it from the profits somewhere else. I basically agree with that, but that is just not what I asked. I'd like to help discuss the other one, but the cut has to be somewhere for this CFC tax. I just think that, from the point of view of the answers to the hearings, there is a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114146	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114147	Actually, I was trying to answer. We kind of think the cut is good here. We think so. I am sorry if my answer did not make it clear in the first place. However, if there are parties that go in and want to discuss the CFCs proposed here in more detail, I would just say that if it is a general discussion about where the cut is in relation to tax controls and administrative burdens and ensuring that the tax rules we have actually also ensure that the tax payable is paid, then I think there are some other elements that should be included in the discussion where we have a very lenient tax in Denmark and where we should have a more sensible tax. That's really just my point here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114230	Thank you. And then it's sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114233	Sir. Rune Lund says that companies have to pay the tax they have to pay, and we all agree on that here in the Danish Parliament. But the question is, why do they have to pay the tax that you put on them with this bill? Now I come back to my Danish kitchen company... they can set up a subsidiary in Latvia that produces kitchen items. In that case, the subsidiary must be taxed at a corporation tax rate of 22 per cent. They can also choose just to buy it from a local producer, who only has to pay the local corporation tax of 15%. Why is it a good idea that this is so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114320	I think that the rules being proposed are a good idea and I would like to repeat this because they set objective criteria for when you are liable in Denmark. The fact is that if there are no objective criteria, but that you go in and do a substantive test, you put the pressure on tax control, and then you increase the possibility of avoiding tax control. And then it's true that in this case we'll be a pioneer country... that's what I'll call it... where we make sure there's a fair tax. And especially in view of the tax rebates that have been given to the richest in the last many years, including to the companies, I have the political view that it is time for companies in Denmark too to contribute something more to the community. We need more beds in psychiatry, we need minimum standards in our kindergartens, we need to correct many years of under-financing and deterioration of welfare, and the fact that we are strengthening our welfare society, and we are getting funding for it, is also something that benefits businesses. And then we simply think that companies should also contribute, while at the same time we should have tax legislation that makes sense and that is not hollowed out. That is why we think that the cut has been put right in the way the draft law has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114436	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114438	After all, this is about a subsidiary located in Latvia, which contributes tax payments in Latvia. Then the question is: why should this subsidiary be put worse than a purely Latvian-owned company, which is in the same business and which competes? Why is it good that companies located in Latvia have a competitive advantage over Danish companies which have subsidiaries in Latvia? How does it benefit Danish society that Latvian-owned companies have a tax advantage over Danish-owned companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114523	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114525	There are two discussions in this. One is that we need to introduce tax legislation that ensures that tax avoidance is not carried out; that is what the tax avoidance directive comes from and comes from. Then there is another discussion that is also related, which is about: what should the level of corporate tax be? And in that discussion, it is a well-known fact that the Liberal Alliance wants to put down corporation tax very much. I do not actually know how far the Liberal Alliance wants it to be put down. But we have the starting point in Enhedslisten that what makes it very attractive to run a business in Denmark is that; we consistently score the highest in all international comparisons, and whether it's about what it's like to start a business is about us digitizing, it's about us having very little bureaucracy, then Denmark is really high on something else. For running a business in Denmark is not only about what tax rate is being paid; it is also about good infrastructure, well-trained labour, efficient public administration and many of the other things that make it easy and good to start a business in Denmark. That is why it is not just about the corporate tax rate, but about the terms of companies and much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115114649	This is a very important legislative proposal that has been tabled. It is fair to say that this was a legislative proposal put forward by the former bourgeois government of which I was a member. However, it was chosen to separate parts of it, and that is why we are dealing with it now. And it was because there were some concerns about, among other things. The taxation of foreign subsidiaries, what is called CFCs controlled foreign companies, is what it stands for, and it is not a freon gas that some think; it is actually subsidiaries we are talking about. Now we have had a consultation process, and a number of consultation responses have been delivered from business organisations and companies • Danfoss, Novo Nordisk and even Ørsted, as the state is the main shareholder in • and the consultation answers are very, very sharp. They all point out the same thing. There is full agreement that if we adopt this bill, it will be a considerable burden on Danish companies. This will lead to reduced growth, and it will make Danish groups burdened with particular administrative difficulty by having to explain how the activities are in all their subsidiaries around the world. This is a requirement to which groups based in other countries in Europe will not be exposed. This therefore means a very large administrative burden on Danish groups. That is not appropriate. It is not appropriate for groups such as Novo Nordisk, Danfoss and Ørsted to be taxed more heavily because they have their head office in Denmark than if they had their head office in Sweden or Germany. It is not appropriate for Denmark to go alone and thus impose much more burdens on our companies than other countries do on their businesses. I fully understand that there are parties inside the Folketing who are in favour of companies having to pay more taxes. You can just do that in a lot of ways. When it comes to imposing taxes, we must ensure that it is effective, and we should like to tax the activities that we want to reduce rather than tax activities that we should all agree on if we want more. And I hope that there is no one in this Parliament who hopes that Novo Nordisk, Ørsted or Danfoss, who are actually three very exemplary companies with a very positive impression on their surroundings, will go badly. That is why it is extremely unfortunate if we adopt this bill. It is clear from the consultation answers that this actually means a lot to the Danish business community, which is why I hope that you will come to terms with the government and actually take the consultation process seriously and recognise that here you are making a big mistake, which will harm Danish business and make Denmark a poorer country, and that, moreover, it will be deeply unfair to our business community. I am very positive to hear that the Radicals will not be able to vote through the proposal. This means, of course, that there is a majority against the government on this proposal, and I really hope that that will be the case, so that no one will start to waver in the ranks and then help to impose heavy burdens on Danish business. I also hope that the government itself will decide and realise that this is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115019	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115038	In the alternative, we think it is a good thing to tighten up legislation on the transfer of mobile funds to low-tax countries. That is why we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115055	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115113	I shall also be very brief. This bill is an over-implementation that harms Danish business, it puts Danish industry with less competitiveness than the countries around us, and of course we cannot support that in New Citizens; it will never be bourgeois or liberal politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115133	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115140	In the Liberal Alliance, we find it very difficult to understand the logic behind this bill. For us it is quite obvious that it will harm Danish business to an extent that no one should want. We think it is good if Danish companies invest in companies abroad. Some productions are simply better in countries other than Denmark, and therefore it may make sense for Danish companies to set up subsidiaries in other countries, buy companies in other countries and have production in other countries. There are different situations in different countries. Some are good at one, other countries are good at the other. The alternative to setting up or buying a subsidiary in other countries is, of course, that the company buys the products from foreign companies that are in those countries. And what this law will do is that it will tax Danish companies' production in other countries via subsidiaries more heavily than that production will be taxed in that country if it is a foreign company that owns the production and the company. And that doesn't make any sense. I have focused here on an example in the questions, and I would like to mention this in my speech. One could imagine a Danish kitchen company that makes a living from installing and selling kitchens to Danish consumers, and this company has produced the kitchen elements in e.g.. Latvia. This is because Latvia is good at producing kitchen elements cost-effectively, and therefore it is good to have production there. The production, which is quite real production, would then have to be subject to 22 per cent. corporation tax, as it is in Denmark, on profits. However, if the Danish kitchen company had instead chosen to buy the kitchens of a local Latvian company, then this Latvian company would be able to pay only 15%. in corporation tax. And this, of course, gives a competitive advantage to foreign owned companies, which can then deliver to the Danish market, rather than Danish subsidiaries abroad, which also deliver to the Danish market. That is why we do not understand why the Danish Government wants to do so here, and that is why we will vote against the legislation at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115438	Thank you. And there are no questions about Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115115450	Thank you for that and thank you for your comments on the bill. It is quite true that these are complex matters that we are dealing with here, and I would like to say at the outset that I think that the right way to deal with the many technical issues that are in this draft law will be to try, perhaps in the first place, to organise a technical review of the bill in the Folketing. We can also have a hearing, of course the committee decides for itself. I just want to say that, of course, we in the Treasury are willing to contribute to this. It is no coincidence that we have the debate that we are having here today, because it is a debate which was also under the previous government, where, as I said, there was quite a lot of debate on precisely this issue of the CFC rules that we have discussed here today. I think it has to be said, and we can clarify this in the work of the committee, that the difference between the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government and the legislative proposal put forward by this government is that it is substantially relaxed precisely on this issue. We can deepen this in the committee's work, but just so that it is, as it were, part of the debate on this subject. There may be a lot of discussions about this, but after all it is an expression of the fact that this was the result of the last debate that it was a desire to make precisely this question more targeted. However, as I said, thank you for the debate. After all, we are putting forward the legislative proposal because it is necessary to amend the rules in force here, particularly in the field of corporate tax, in order to meet the international obligations and standards which, among other things, are in place. is reflected in the EU tax avoidance directive, OECD rules and, as has also been promoted, a practice resulting from the rulings of the European Court of Justice. If we take the CFCs first: among the main elements covered by the proposal, and this has already been raised in the debate, the issue of CFCs is central. The EU's tax avoidance directive includes, among other things: minimum requirements for Member States' CFC rules. As I have said, CFC rules are safeguards designed to prevent groups from moving assets, and hence their income, to countries with lower taxation, for tax reasons. The tax avoidance directive had to be implemented by the end of 2018, and the previous government therefore put forward a legislative proposal in the last parliamentary year, L 28, on the implementation of all the various elements of the directive, including, of course, the minimum requirements for the CFC rules. Several large companies, as well as interbranch organisations, expressed concern at that time about the part relating to the CFC rules, and this part is therefore separated and never implemented. That is why the government is now putting forward a proposal to ensure that the Danish rules comply with the minimum requirements of the directive. In the design of the proposal, which has also been promoted, a balance has been sought which ensures that Denmark continues to have a robust corporate tax base, but which at the same time seeks to reduce the administrative and economic consequences for ordinary companies. This ensures the foundation of many Danish jobs without weakening the level of protection of the rules. That is the balance we have tried to strike. On the one hand, the proposal is based on the basic premise that Denmark is and, in the view of the government, must continue to be a pioneering country in the fight against exactly what it is about, that is, tax avoidance. And that is why the proposal is based on the existing Danish CFC rules, where the rules apply to all subsidiaries, wherever they are located. A minimum implementation of the requirements of the directive would mean that the rules within the EU/EEA could only be applied to subsidiaries without substance and would significantly weaken the already existing protection against the transfer of income to countries with lower taxation. And there will be a weakening which is estimated to involve significantly less revenue and probably billions in size. And that's why it's screwed up as it is. On the other hand, it is important that Denmark does not unnecessarily put Danish companies at a disadvantage in terms of competition. With the bill, the government has therefore stressed that ordinary Danish companies are not unduly affected. This has been sought in particular by the fact that the proposal targets the rules so that they only lead to taxation in precisely those cases where the considerations behind the rules naturally justify it. The consultation has shown that parts of the business community still want minimum rates. However, as I said, the proposed solution, which is therefore in the draft law, is well balanced and we believe that it responds, as far as is possible, to the concerns that have been raised. Therefore, I hope that the further process here I admit that it is very technical to help clarify the substance, speaking of, of the proposal, so to speak, to the bottom, that is, what concerns really are, whether there are teams of them, how these balances have been found and what consequences it will have if you do as many of these answers are said, not least when it comes to concerns about revenue and it is about the weakening of the Danish defence when it comes to tax avoidance. It is true, as has been suggested, that the proposal also contains a question of transfer pricing, i.e. proof of this. In addition, the proposal contains some new provisions on transfer pricing, i.e. rules relating to transactions between group companies where there is a risk that prices and terms used do not correspond to so-called arm's length terms. The proposal is one of the following: As a result of a Supreme Court ruling earlier this year, which related to the tax administration's ability to estimate what are arm's length conditions when the transfer pricing documentation has not been prepared in a timely manner. The draft law shall remove any doubt as to when such an estimate may be made. At the same time, it is proposed that the company's documentation should be submitted to the tax administration, and this should be done in accordance with the draft law within 60 days of the deadline for disclosure. If this 60-day deadline is not met, the documentation cannot be considered to be timely. This will ensure that in future there will be no doubt as to whether the documentation is timely. A third main element of the bill then concerns the right of companies to deduct final losses recorded in the permanent establishments of foreign subsidiaries or in real estate abroad. The starting point of Danish law is that companies are taxed only on income earned in this country, and therefore there is no deduction for losses incurred abroad. However, the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled in a ruling on the Danish rules that in some cases there must be the right to deduct losses that are final, for example. because all activities in the country concerned are closed down. According to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, it is a limited right to deduct such losses. As I said, the aim of the proposal is to meet the requirements of EU law without changing the starting point that a loss abroad cannot be deducted in Denmark. Fourthly, and as a final key element of the proposal, the general rules on what is also called permanent establishments are adapted to bring them into line with the latest standards adopted by the OECD. These standards also form the basis of the Danish double taxation agreements, which we also regularly discuss. On this point, the proposal is to a very large extent a codification of the principles already in force, but a number of amendments are proposed which are intended to prevent the artificial avoidance of permanent establishments. So in these words, I would like to say that we are happy to help ensure that we can get deeper into this. I admit that it is very complicated, but I would just like to say that the legislative proposal that has been put forward here is a legislative proposal which, in other words, on crucial stretches, especially when it comes to the CFC rules, is considerably relaxed in relation to the legislative proposal that the previous government has managed to put forward. On that basis, I hope that we can have a good further discussion on the proposal so that we can get to the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120404	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120407	The bill put forward by the previous government also withdrew the previous government. I would like to make it clear that although the Minister of Taxation talks a lot about how complicated this bill is, there is also something that can be explained and something that is relatively simple. It is that if a Danish company has a subsidiary in another country with a lower corporation tax than the Danish corporation tax, this subsidiary will be taxed more heavily on corporation tax than its local competitors, whether owned by a local from the nation or a foreign company which has a subsidiary, also in that country. Can the Minister explain why this is a good idea for Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120457	Of course, we can try to drill out that example. Ole Birk Olesen is right to give the example, because it can easily be at the heart of this discussion. But it can be said that what is at the heart of the question of whether CFCs are being taxed is whether patents have been transferred from Denmark to this company that is being talked about. Well, a company that does nothing but produce and sell kitchen items is never CFCs-taxed. So that's the question: if you move out patents that's what's central, then they're the ones who're taxed. That's what's at the heart of it. Of course, you may disagree with that, but it is just so that we know what we are discussing. We can try to build that out, and we can try to exemplify it. And I have also seen that there are plenty of examples of what they have tried to answer in the consultation form. But let us look at that example in further committee work. It is just that we agree on what it is, and that is that when patents are moved out, the CFCs tax will occur. That's what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120611	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120613	Well, that's an important clarification, but now it's not the case that you can't have a patent in a certain kind of hinge for a kitchen door. But will the Minister nevertheless admit that it is the case for companies that move patents out that they will be more heavily taxed abroad with their subsidiaries than their local competitors are, and will the Minister explain why it is a good idea for Danish society that Danish companies' subsidiaries are taxed more heavily than their local competitors in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120649	I am glad that we were able to clarify this. We can, of course, try to develop it in the committee procedure with regard to the specific kitchen door company, if that is what we are talking about. Under the rules in force, it is only • and I would like to admit that this is very complicated • if, exceptionally, it is a CFCs company, such as CFCs. has moved patents abroad, and so it is only the revenue from the patent that is taxed at 22 per cent. That's what we're talking about. So this does not apply to all their activities..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is true in this specific case. That's what we're talking about. I also think it is important for the debate to say that it has been a purpose of the exercise that has been carried out, from the previous government to this bill, to clarify and target it here. It's just so we can agree on it. But we can build on this in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120755	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120758	It is not true that it is only patents; it is also financial activities that are asked to be explained by foreign subsidiaries, i.e. how many intellectual property rights and financial activities they have in their subsidiaries. And if they are above any limit, they must be taxed according to Danish tax rules. I hope the tax minister can confirm that. In addition, I think that the tax minister has listened very badly in this debate when he tries to reduce the criticism that there may be a need for a technical explanation or that we need to go deeper into some issues. That is not what was said by Parliament's parties. It was said by a majority here that we are opposed to the government putting forward a legislative proposal which would make Danish companies have to be taxed more heavily and burden more administrative burdens than groups headquartered in other countries. It is therefore strange that the government wants that because Novo Nordisk, Danfoss, Ørsted, Carlsberg and other Danish groups are headquartered in Denmark rather than headquartered in Sweden or Germany, they must have worse conditions. It is illogical and it is a very harsh criticism coming from the business community. The tax minister said that he interpreted it in such a way that there were parts of the business world that were opposed to the bill. I would like to know if the tax minister knows of anyone from the business community at all who supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120918	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115120920	I am fully aware that there is criticism of this. It's not like I'm blind. Well, I can see that. And I could also hear that there was a lot of criticism about the debate that the previous government had. What has then happened afterwards is that I have spent a lot of time on these companies, that you have spent a lot of time on these companies, and then here is a bill that has at least been targeted against the criticisms that have been made. I just think it is important to maintain that what is, like the assessment here, is that we do not introduce a substantive test, even if the one granted is within the scope of the directive. Why don't we? We do not do so because it will be a significant weakening of the Danish CFC rules. That's what's at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121007	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121011	Thank you. Couldn't the tax minister just for once answer the questions that are being asked? I asked a very, very clear question: does anyone from the business community support this bill? Does anyone agree that this does not constitute a burden for Danish companies at all? In his speech, the Minister for Taxation said that there was criticism from parts of the business community. After all, it's a unified business community that's very worried about this bill. Does anyone outside the Treasury and the government support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121045	Well, I admit that the criticism is relatively massive. And therefore I do not think there is any reason to pinpoint both the one, the other and the third. We'll take a look at that. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov himself was a member of the government which put forward a proposal that was tighter than this, and I think it might be worth trying to recognise that. We can have this discussion, fair enough, but I have an interest in trying to get this country, and I hope we can do it with, among other things. a technical examination and a consultation of the Tax Committee. So we have an obligation to get some of this country, and then we have to look at how we get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121126	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121128	Now New Citizens were not part of the previous government, so we have not been involved in putting forward anything or dealing with anything earlier. But I would like to ask the Minister something. There is mention of these consultation answers and there was talk of patents on kitchen doors, but there is also a patent on medicines which can be in a much larger volume. I would like to ask the Minister what an impression it makes on the Minister when a single business community and we have to say this is, nor have I heard examples from the business community that say otherwise that this is going to harm them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121210	This always impresses the Minister, but I think I just have to say that I understand their reaction; I do. What they are proposing will be a weakening of the rules we have today, so I understand. What is, and has been, the starting point for the previous government is that it did not want to do so. But what this government has put forward is a softer proposal than what the previous government has put forward. And I actually think there are people in the business community who recognize that. But I do understand that we are continuing to fight for it and so on. We from the Treasury and the government do not agree with that point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121258	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121300	I am pleased that the Minister recognises that this is a weakening for business. I am surprised, then, just when you recognise that it is a weakening for business, why there is no mention of what it is going to cost business. After all, as the Minister is now doing, we cannot first acknowledge that it is a weakening for business and then say that it has no consequence for business, as the draft law says, that it has no economic consequence. So the chain's gonna jump off for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121326	It doesn't have to do that, because the consequence of Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's view will be that it will be a weakening of the rules we have today. It would be a weakening of the rules we have against this kind of taxation. That is the point of it, and the government does not want it, because we want a strong safeguard against this form of circumvention of corporate taxation. That is what is at the heart, and that is what was the discussion under the previous government, where the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government was stricter than what this government is putting forward. We have actually done a great deal of work to target it, listen to business, listen to their concerns, and we think that the balance we have found is right because we do not want to weaken these rules. On the contrary, the government wants us, as it were, to take the lead in protecting our tax rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121422	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121424	I think I'm one of the few people who was here in the Chamber, with Mr. Rune Lund, who was rapporteur on the proposal when it was here a year ago, and I can clearly remember it. And it is true, as the Conservative rapporteur says, that it was actually drawn. It is difficult to shoot them in the shoes and say that they themselves put forward something. But they drew it, precisely because it was bad, and there you can do the same with this proposal. If that is bad, you can draw it, and I think it is a little strange that you try to say that this is a much more relaxed draft law. The draft law L 28 a year ago was revenue-neutral, and it had no impact on business, and now the Minister is told that this is much more relaxed. But what are the economic consequences for business according to the bill? It is still non-revenue-neutral. Well, it hasn't changed anything. So they haven't changed it with one penny in the assessment in the Treasury. So when you have that argument about it being much lighter, can you not just as the tax minister refer a little to the fact that there may not be a big difference when it does not move a single penny?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121516	We can easily describe this difference in committee work, I think. I am happy to admit that it is very technical. However, I also believe that the dialogue that has taken place with the companies that agree with me on this proposal has certainly been clarifying, and that must also be the purpose of this proposal. So we can easily describe what the differences are quite explicitly in relation to the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121545	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121546	Thank you. So there is also a big difference between whether something is more clarifying and that it is more relaxed. Hopefully we will learn more from having discussed this matter over a year, but that does not necessarily mean that it is a better legislative proposal. I just want to ask the Minister something. If we adopt this bill, Denmark will, of course, as virtually the only country, have very strict CFCs taxation rules on real business income. What is the need of the Minister for us to have the strictest rules? I agree, of course, that we should have CFCs tax, that we should avoid international tax evasion, but what is the need for Danish groups to be penalised much harder than all the others? Why is there a need for us to have more taxation than we need in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121625	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121626	If one now imagines introducing a substantive test, what I said before is that it would be a significant weakening of the existing CFC rules, and that would open up the possibility that income from, among other things. intangible assets and know-how produced and developed in Denmark will be able to be taken out of the country without the income of these assets being subject to Danish taxation. That is what is at the heart if you do what some will, and that will mean that it could potentially undermine a significant part of our Danish corporate tax base. That is what is central, and that is why the government is not proposing it. We have made a softer bill than the previous government put forward, and I hope that in the further work of this Parliament we can clarify these issues and that we can get on with this. We have a duty to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121719	Thank you. Then there are no more questions for the Minister. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121736	The debate is open. It's the tax minister again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115121759	Thank you for that, President. As the President-in-Office rightly says, we must now consider a resolution by the Conservative People's Party on increasing tobacco taxes, so that the price of a package of cigarettes rises to at least DKK 60. This means that it will be a price increase of just under 20 kroner. compared to today. With the proposal, the Conservative People's Party wants to ensure a smoke-free future for children. I must not hide the fact that the government has great sympathy for the intention behind the proposal, B 3, as you know, and the government has also proposed, in connection with the financial bill for 2020, to increase taxes on cigarettes and smoking tobacco. We have played out a proposal for a tax increase corresponding to a total average price increase of DKK 10. per Pack cigarettes. Thus, the average price will rise to approx. 51 kr. in 2021. This is a small increase in taxation compared with the one proposed in B 3. However, this is a significant increase in taxes which will lead to a rise in the price of cigarettes by approx. Twenty-five per cent, and this will be the biggest increase in the tax on cigarettes in recent times. The government has included several considerations in the consideration of the level of tax increase, and let me try to explain them. We have emphasized that those who already have the least and who may find it difficult to quit smoking, yes, they will see a rise in the price of cigarettes as a major financial burden. At the same time, it has been considered by the government that tax increases lead to an increase in cross-border trade and also in the illegal trade in cigarettes. It is clear that if taxes are increased in addition to the government's proposals, as the motion for a resolution proposes, then the burden on smokers and the cross-border trade in cigarettes will also increase. In addition to proposing tax increases, the government has used a wide range of other tools to combat smoking among children and young people. The government has thus presented an ambitious action plan with a large number of concrete initiatives aimed at getting young people to stop smoking at all. The action plan shall include, inter alia: proposals on neutral cigarette packages, hidden tobacco products in shops and kiosks, as well as banning smoking in educational establishments involving young people under the age of 18. As I said, therefore, the tax increases will not be left alone. There is a picture that several parties want to see an increase in tobacco taxes. As I have said, it is positive to see that parties broadly in the Folketing are involved in the need to increase the prices of cigarettes so that we can help to keep children and young people, in particular, away from smoking at all. As you know, the increase in tobacco taxes is currently being negotiated in the context of the negotiations on the 2020 Finance Act. The government awaits the outcome of these negotiations and cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. As I have said, we have a great deal of sympathy for the intention behind the resolution, and whatever price increase can ultimately be agreed upon, I think I dare say that this will be a significant increase which, together with the initiatives in the action plan that I mentioned just now, will have a tangible, beneficial effect on what we agree is the objective, namely that we should have fewer children and young people at all to start smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122149	Thank you. There's a couple of questioners. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122151	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the statement on the Government's intentions. I am also pleased that the Social Democratic Party, and hence the government, has moved in relation to the commitments that were up to the election campaign. There was the Social Democracy saying that they did not want to raise the price of cigarettes. So now they do, and it's gratifying. However, I would like the Minister to confirm that the model proposed by the government to allow cigarettes to rise by only five in 2020 and then a five again in 2021, i.e. a total of DKK 10, is the model that gives the largest revenue to the Treasury. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122239	It is clear that if you raise the price here, it will generate less revenue, and we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122246	One more time? Here you go, sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122251	If the government chooses the model which provides the absolute greatest revenue, can the Minister also confirm that this is more a financing proposal than a health proposal, in other words, when one makes such a model that gives the maximum revenue?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122310	No, it's not a question of that. This is a coherent plan. It is a question of raising the price, as the questioner rightly says, by two rounds, so that overall we get it raised by an average of DKK 10. per pack for these approx. 51 kr. in 2021 and this is a significant increase. In addition to the price increase, a plan of action has also been put forward to further achieve the target, where fewer children and young people should even come into contact with tobacco. So the government has put forward a comprehensive plan of action for this. It is currently under discussion in the Financial Law negotiations. I hope, then, and I feel quite convinced that what comes out of these financial negotiations will be a comprehensive plan for how we, as a society, can help to ensure that the least possible children and young people come into contact with tobacco at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122409	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122412	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I should just like to ask the Minister: when the government proposes to raise tobacco taxes with such a flat ten, is it to get more money in the treasury, or is it to be preventive?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122431	Thank you. It has several purposes. It is clear that even if you raise it further, it is still giving away money in the treasury. I hope so too, sir. Martin Geertsen will agree with me. So you could also ask the opposition about that - there may be. Secondly, what the government is proposing, and what I said to the Conservatives, is indeed a wide range of initiatives which can help to further underpin what I assume we agree on, namely that we must ensure that the least possible children and young people come into contact with tobacco at all. So there is of course a wide range of sieves. The aim, I believe, is the same: we must have the least possible children and young people in contact with tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122509	Here you go, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122510	If I am to understand the tax minister there that he completely ignores the fight against cancer and other actors in this area, who say that if you raise the price of a pack of cigarettes with a ten, then it is really just extra revenue for the Treasury, but, in terms of prevention, it is not really important. In other words, if you want something to do with prevention here, you have to give cigarette prices a decent price up by a minimum of 20 kroner. What is the Minister's position on the fact that the fight against cancer and others have the claim which appears to be exactly the opposite of what the tax minister is saying here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122549	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122550	The government in no way ignores the fight against cancer in this discussion. That is why we are taking the problem too seriously and presenting a comprehensive plan, which also includes an increase in a very large package of cigarettes, also in percentage terms plus, as I said, a whole series of other initiatives. So there is no question of neglecting any criticism whatsoever, on the contrary. I believe that everyone has an interest in achieving this objective: ensuring that the fewest possible children and young people smoke and come into contact with tobacco at all. I am quite convinced that this is what comes out of the financial law negotiations that are going on at the moment and where, among other things, we are going on. The Minister for Health plays a key role because it is also within his area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122641	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122644	Thank you. First of all, the negotiations that are being held with the Minister for Health are not financial law negotiations, because there we are all sitting and, as far as I know, we are not in the financial law negotiations. We in the Danish People's Party are really happy that we are not only going to set prices extremely high, because we know that it hits socially wrong, as the Social Democrats were also out to say before the elections, but I would like to know what we are going to do for the socially vulnerable. How are some of them to be secured? Now that you want to raise the price with this $10, we know that the ones it hits are the homeless, and they are the mentally ill; they are people who have a very low income and who do not have the same opportunities and who may not have the same resource to stop smoking either. I would like to know how the tax minister feels about that. For this must be taken into account in these negotiations, including in the case of the tax minister, and at the same time we must look at whether the proceeds of the DKK 10-11 mentioned by the tax minister will be obtained when much of it moves towards cross-border trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122752	The government fully shares the concerns that the Danish People's Party also has here. That is why we have chosen the model we have chosen. With regard to the further negotiations in this area, I hope that the questioner also has respect for the fact that what is like a tax minister's focus in this context is the crowns. And, as Mrs Liselott Blixt points out, the negotiations on the package as a whole are indeed taking place away from the tax minister and his resort. This is done by the Minister for Health and so, of course, by the public debate on the current negotiating situation, during the financial negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122830	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122835	I have yet to hear what will be done for the socially disadvantaged. How can we, as a government, ensure that those who have the most difficulty in society, the elderly who have only their pension, early retirement, also have the money to buy, for example? healthy food for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122853	That is why there is a balance in the government's proposal. That's what I started by saying, that you have to think about exactly this. I think that the government here is not far from the views of the Danish People's Party. They've had weight in relation to the level we've found. This is a matter which must also be taken into account. So they are in the discussions and I also know that Mrs Liselott Blixt is aware of this, which is now taking place with, among others. the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122924	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and we start with Mrs Tanja Larsson, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115122940	Thank you. Every year almost 14,000 Danes die of smoking. That's all, too many. Many of them have started smoking at a young age. Unfortunately, in these years, we are seeing an increase in the number of children and young people who start smoking. It is absolutely essential that we reverse that trend and, of course, it calls for political action. In the Social Democratic Party we are therefore very pleased that there is a broad majority in favour of massive action, especially against children and young people's smoking, and we are pleased that there is broad support for the tobacco tax now being significantly increased. It is no secret that the Social Democratic Party has been calling for years for measures to combat smoking and, in particular, measures to prevent more children and young people from starting to smoke. It's been high on our wish list. After the elections, there is now a very large majority to do something about the smoking of young people. We are, of course, very pleased about this in the Social Democratic Party. In September, the government presented a proposal for an action plan, "Smoked life for children and young people," which is the most ambitious anti-smoking plan presented by a Danish government for many years. We want to introduce neutral cigarette packages so that colourful logos are replaced by boring text. We want stores to be required in future to hide the tobacco in the store so that you are not tempted when you are queuing at the box. And that is what we want because we know that visibility and accessibility mean something when it comes to young people and smoking. We want a ban on smoking in youth education, including in vocational schools, and of course we want to make school time completely smoke-free for pupils in primary and other primary schools. We want tobacco advertising to be banned. We want to tighten controls on the sale of tobacco products to minors. And, above all, we want to raise the tobacco tax by DKK 10. over the next two years. This corresponds to an increase of approx. Twenty-five per cent, and that is the biggest increase in recent times. We have, of course, noted that there are other parties that want a higher increase. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is a matter of finding the right balance: a balance between the consideration of fewer young people starting to smoke and the consideration of people with low incomes, such as those with low incomes. people's pensioners do not experience an excessive reduction in their available amounts. And we do so because we know that, especially among the elderly, there will still be many who will continue to smoke. That's why it's all about finding a balance. We believe that with an increase of 10 kroner. over 2 years hits the right balance. There are currently negotiations on higher tobacco taxes in the context of the negotiations on the Finance Act. The social democracy wants to await the outcome of the negotiations. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123240	Thank you. There are some comments. It's first, sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123246	Thank you. The rapporteur, like me, is involved in the negotiations that are taking place on anything other than the price. However, we know from all the experts that it is the price that is absolutely essential to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. We also know that every day 40 children start smoking. And Jesper Fisker from the Cancer Combat says that such a insignificant price increase will not mean significantly fewer people who smoke they pay just a little more for their tobacco. So the government seems to be betting on maximum earnings rather than on health. Does it not impress the rapporteur when all the experts say that the price must be put up with a proper notch so that it will have the effect that children and young people do not start smoking? Does that not impress the rapporteur at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123347	Thank you. Of course, the impression is made of what good people tell us, and especially the fight against cancer are some to which we listen very much. But I just have to refer to what I also concluded my speech with, i.e. that it is also important for us to find a balance. At the same time, we also have a responsibility here to ensure cross-border trade and that there is no increased illegal trade, and we believe that this proposal strikes a good balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123405	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123406	I am just thinking of when the rapporteur says that there must be a balance, and among other things. It also mentions the fact that cigarettes in Denmark have become really cheap. They are considerably more expensive in both Norway, Sweden and Germany, and in Germany there is a principle that they are allowed to rise year by year so that they follow the general trend in prices. So we have significantly cheaper cigarettes at the moment, and that is why children can afford to buy cigarettes. So if we had the price raised significantly, children would not be able to buy cigarettes in the same way. And the fight against cancer and other experts point out that you can reduce the number of children starting to smoke by 75% if you raise the price to DKK 60. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123458	Thank you. Of course, but according to the figures I have, you can see that in Germany the price is the same, and in Sweden it is 5 kroner. Over. In other words, when we talk about price, it is an isolated talk about it, and that is why it is very important for us that we should also get it with the neutral cigarette packages, with the concealment of tobacco products, that we should have increased control over sales to children under the age of 18, smoke-free school hours, no tobacco advertising and sponsorships, smoke-free vocational schools, young people who do not need to be tempted by nicotine products. We do not think that the price should be left alone, and that is why we think that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123539	Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123541	Thank you very much. I have heard over the last few years that the Socialists believe that young people stop smoking if they hide cigarettes and make packages the same; then nobody wants to smoke any more. And then you let them rise 10 kroner, and that's how we make the kids not. We don't believe that in the Danish People's Party. If we are based on some of the figures you mentioned in the previous question, it is true that in Germany it actually costs the same as in Denmark, namely 41 DKK. In Sweden it costs 45 kroner. and in Denmark 41 kr. Yet the Germans have managed to get young people to stop smoking because they have been teaching children their health for 20 years, just as they have been doing in Norway. We have a similar program that runs in individual schools in Denmark. I would like to hear: how much money and resources will the Socialists set aside for us to use the very tool that teaches all schools throughout the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123642	Thank you. I think it sounds really exciting. Now, unfortunately, I am the rapporteur on health and not on finance, so I cannot stand and talk about how much money can be set aside for it. But I think it's really interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123659	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123700	I assume that the Socialists are talking about what tools they can use. With reference to what is coming out of the fight against cancer, it is also a programme that the Danish Cancer Society has looked at in Norway. But you take these things that do not cost anything; yes, it costs something for business and it costs something in discomfort for all other citizens. However, exactly where children and young people could be hit and avoided from buying counterfeit cigarettes and stuff like that, we are not doing anything because it costs money. I think that is amazing, that is to say, you think you can do the other things. So I would just like to appeal for this to be included in the discussions you have when you, as a government, go in and say: we are doing some of these things now. And now we are getting some money from raising the tobacco tax, so I hope that the rapporteur on health will come with us to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123756	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123757	Thank you. At least I'll take that with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123800	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123802	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Tanja Larsson on a successful debut as a speaker on the parliamentary platform. And then I would like to say that what has led me to ask for the floor is the question of vocational schools, which have my particular interest, because I am also the rapporteur for education. I just want the rapporteur to clarify: is it the case that the Social Democratic Party is also in favour of making vocational schools smoke-free if it will have negative consequences for the search for vocational schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123838	As I have said, we are sitting in some debates right now when we are discussing various things. This is, of course, one of the attention points we have, because the balance between people taking an education and the fact that people quit smoking must be found. There's no point in scaring our students away from school. It's obvious, so I understand your concern, and it's also something we're aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123901	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl. And I think it's great that the first time you're on the platform, you wait so long to make a little mistake. You don't use direct charges. Tanja Larsson No, sorry).
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123913	But here is one of the really difficult dilemmas of control policy, because it is true that great efforts have been made to increase the search for vocational schools because it has been in decline over a ten-year period. But how bad must control policy be? That is, of course, the difficult discussion, and I would like to ask the rapporteur to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115123940	Thank you. Well, that's a completely complex consideration, and that's why I may also think that it's too few seconds I have to unfold it here. However, I think that this is something that should be discussed in the negotiations that are under way, and it is clear that this is a matter of concern. It is essential that children and young people receive education. This is crucial for our country and for their future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124006	Thank you. And then it's sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124008	Thank you. I too would like to congratulate you on an excellent debut on the platform. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can just such an elaborate on that issue of inequality, because I think this is incredibly interesting because what is really causing inequality in health care? Could it be that many people actually smoke and that there are many people with small incomes who smoke and who end up in health care because they smoke? Could that be the connection between smoking and the inequality in the Danish health care system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124052	Thank you. Now I have to be careful that I do not fall into the trap, because I have read public health science, so it is easy to fall into the details, but the crucial thing for health is actually people's level of education, and smoking, of course, has a great deal to do with it. Then you have to look at health in general, the level of education is really relevant to look at. And, of course, there is also something about geography in our country, where there can be different lengths to and from hospitals and health services, and that, of course, has to do with people's health, how far there is and how difficult it is to get to health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124137	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124138	Then I would like to ask something quite different, and that is a little further to the question I put to the tax minister. When the Socialists make a proposal to raise cigarette prices by DKK 10, there are a lot of players who say that it is simply too little. If it's the case that you want a preventive effect out of this, you're going to have to run the price up by a 20. What does the Socialist rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124204	Thank you. But I say the same thing as I said in the speech: what do we do with the pensioners who know very well how dangerous it is to smoke? If they had the ability to stop, they would have done it earlier. I think that there are a lot of smokers sitting around in Danish homes who would really like to stop smoking, but who are unable to stop smoking. Do we then want to create more bias in our society by increasing prices so that they get less money for healthy diets? That is the balance we are balancing in the social democracy, and that is where we think we are right about what we are doing ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124239	Thank you. The last question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124243	Thank you. And I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his debut on the platform. That was really nice. This is a bit in continuation of the discussion that is here, as we are discussing inequality in health. The rapporteur says that such a proposal here will hit socially wrong, and I just want to hear the rapporteur a little bit about it. We know, of course, that when we talk about inequality in health, it is also a great deal about a structural inequality that is in society, as the rapporteur himself has said, and that is what it is all about. In other words, we can do away with inequality, also by reducing the general inequality in society, so that not only are the poor smokers we care for, but the poor in general. In this context, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that the vast majority, including those who are short-trained and low-income families who are smokers, have the same desire to quit smoking, so in this sense it is simply a question of extending the possibility of having smoking cessation courses, getting free smoking cessation medicines. It is also a way of avoiding inequalities in health: to ensure that the offers become more accessible and become free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124357	Thank you. I fully agree with the questioner. This is why the municipalities themselves regulate this area, and so I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the municipalities to focus on it in these times when we see that more and more young people are starting to smoke. In relation to health inequalities, I would say that it is exactly as the questioner himself describes it. Now I come from rural areas myself, and I know everything about the challenge you are facing and the problems you are facing, and that hits the questioner's spot on. So I share the questioner's view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124435	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124436	Thank you. When you use the argument in this debate that it is socially wrong, it is as if there is such a group of socially vulnerable people who are different from the rest of us. After all, the vast majority of them have the same desire to quit smoking. We're just not giving them the same offer to get the opportunity to stop smoking. That is why I sometimes find it a little unfortunate that they say that there is a group that we must take into account and that we must therefore ensure that the price of cigarettes is not so high for them. We should, of course, instead ensure that they were given better opportunities to have better lives and more choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124517	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124518	Thank you. Unfortunately, we are not yet there in our society, and that is why the Social Democrats believe that we have the right balance in the proposal we have tabled ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124529	Thank you. Then the report just came forward and now I think it is the last of the rapporteur's comments. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124535	Thank you. Congratulations on your speech and on your rapporteurship. What I really want to ask the rapporteur is about health in general. Now the rapporteur has dealt with health in general, and in this context we are talking about smoking, but it is after all the Diabetes Association, the Combating of Cancer, the Heart Association, the Eye Association, a number of associations which point out that when you smoke, you are more likely to have certain diseases, and it is very much also a question of inequality in health, because very often it is the weakest in our society that gets a share of these diseases. I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the problem of this not only of smoking but of public health in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124626	Thank you. It is precisely about our public health in Denmark. What annoys me a little about this debate and this price is that you look at the price in isolation, but if we have to deal with it now, for example. look at what a folk pensionist then subsequently has at his disposal for exactly col-medicine col does not disappear, and even if you quit smoking, you still have kol. Out in the rural areas where I live, it is not so easy to get the money going, the money is not so many for all families and pensioners, so if you have to afford both your medicine and your healthy food, for expensive public transport, which is if it is there, or flexture, we think we have to find a balance between price and the other, and we think we have that here by what we have said ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124724	I would like to ask that again. We know that the group most at risk is the group that the rapporteur calls the weak group. We also know that it is often the group that smokes the most. We also know that if smoking is reduced, you are not as exposed as you would otherwise be to heart disease, diabetes etc., and we also know that eye diseases, for example. amd, is significantly aggravated by smoking. That is why I would like to hear: would it not be beneficial for public health if the population as such reduced their smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124802	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124803	Thank you. Now I do not want to call those who smoke in Denmark the weak group. There are very, very many smokers in Denmark, so I would like to take care to refer to them as such. In relation to public health: the reduction of the proportion of people who smoke helps in our public health, as well as education and not least exercise does; physical inactivity is actually a more dangerous risk than smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124833	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. And we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115124845	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal and with other proposals, the Left would like to ensure that far fewer children and young people start smoking, that more smokers completely drop the tobacco, and that fewer Danes thus get cancer and other diseases that smoking can lead to. Each day begins like this around approx. 40 children and young people to smoke, and one fifth of the population are regular smokers. We feel that this is something we need to address. That has to change. Our ambition is clear, it is clear, because by 2030 we will have Denmark's first smoke-free generation. And the proposal to increase the tobacco tax, yes, is a step towards achieving that ambition. This motion for a resolution requires the government to raise the tobacco tax so that the price level for a package of cigarettes will be 60 kr. The motion for a resolution calls for cigarettes to be as expensive as possible without any disproportionate increase in border trade and illegal imports, and the Health Authority's estimate is that if the price of a package of cigarettes is raised to DKK 60, yes, it will reduce smoking among children and young people by 75%. and in the population as a whole with approx. 20% I do not think anyone is in any doubt, regardless of what political affiliation one has, that less smoke will benefit the vast majority of people in this society. Tobacco smoking is the single factor that has the greatest negative impact on Danes health. In the longer term, the number of smoking-related diseases will also decrease, and today smoking causes more than 80%. of lung cancer, while smoking also greatly increases the risk of other types of cancer. At the same time, we are also aware that passive smoking increases the risk of a number of chronic diseases such as lung cancer, cardiovascular diseases and other types of respiratory disease. Let me conclude by pointing out that the price of a package of cigarettes here in Denmark is in the middle in comparison with the prices in the rest of Europe, but when you look at how much of their income smokers spend on cigarettes, then you have to say that cigarettes are exceptionally cheap. Never before in Denmark has one had to work as short a time as now to afford to buy a pack of cigarettes. As I said, increased tobacco taxes are one of many tools we can use to reduce the number of smokers. I fully agree with those who have said here in the brief remarks that it should of course not be left alone, but followed by a number of other initiatives, and some of those initiatives are currently in place. and negotiates under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125146	Thank you. The first is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125149	Thank you very much. I'd like to know if the Left still has this mantra that it shouldn't be more expensive to be a Dane. And if you still mean it, I would like to hear what the reason is for raising some taxes now, so that it will be more expensive for some Danes, especially those who have the least money. And when you want to, I want to know whether the Left will also raise the levy on fatty and unhealthy foods and on alcohol, because that is where we see a tendency for cancer, which we were at a conference on the other day. Surely the same principles must apply, so that prices in those areas are also raised, of course. So I would like to hear about that from the rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125239	The Left said very clearly before the parliamentary elections, which we have just passed, a choice that we have had well over, and fortunately for that we want action in relation to smoking and that it also includes an increase in taxes. And I am also basically of the opinion that if you have to raise taxes and charges in this country, and we want to do so in isolation here, you have to make it a level where it actually works in relation to what you want to do, namely prevent. And there is no point in a price increase of ten as proposed by the government. You have to get to a level of 20 kroner before it works and before it bats, otherwise it doesn't matter if you have a prevention perspective. On the question of alcohol and fatty foods and such is the answer: No, we do not want to raise taxes and taxes in relation to that. And we also know, Mrs Liselott Blixt, that tobacco is therefore • if you have to use an English term here • second to none the most addictive of the products we are talking about here. That is why we are putting a tax right there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125350	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125351	Then the rapporteur has not listened properly when we were at a conference the other day, because it turns out that it is actually easier to quit smoking than to get rid of its overweight, because the body is constantly working against getting rid of the overweight. So there is actually a greater risk of getting cancer because of overweight than because of smoking. At the same time, the rapporteur says that this is to prevent and that prices are close to the average. In Germany it costs the same as here, and so does Spain; prices in the Netherlands and Belgium are 44 kroner. and 46 kroner.; and in Sweden the price is 45 DKK. It's only Norway that's up to 84 kroner. However, when we look at prevention, as I mentioned earlier, it is Germany that has used education in it, and there schools have actually achieved a very large reduction in the number of young people who smoke. Isn't that something the Left wants to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125451	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125453	I can guarantee the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the Left would very much like that. And that is also why we are sitting in the debates that the Danish People's Party is also in the middle of now, which are about what things are next to tax increases that need to be worked on in terms of prevention. So, yeah, we're gonna use the whole palette here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125512	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125518	Thank you. And I almost want to say: welcome to the Left in the fight to raise the prices of cigarettes and for a special effort to prevent young people from starting to smoke. I share the Left's ambition for a smoke-free generation 2030, but what we have seen over the last four years is limited. You don't actually need fingers at all to count the bets. Well, we are here now, and I am listening to the rapporteur argue that this price cannot stand alone. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether this means that he agrees that such a range of tools is needed if we are actually to succeed in breaking the basket for children starting to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125612	I can fully confirm that, and we presented a smoke-out or a non-smoking show is probably the more precise expression before the election, in which, in addition to the charge, we also had other proposals that were about display bans; which were about interventions in relation to educational institutions; which were about saving the cigarette packets in shops and other things. So, yes, I very much agree with the rapporteur that we must, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125641	Yes, because there are a number of initiatives which can also be tackled and which really, I think, would have a great impact. I myself have had the pleasure of putting forward a number of the proposals in the previous Assembly, unfortunately without a majority. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it will make sense if we manage to land some kind of common whole package where we can think in both price and initiative, instead of addressing the stakes individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125713	Well, I think we'll end up in the negotiations we have at the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly. I am not going to be able to answer on behalf of the Minister for Health and the Elderly, but what comes out of the Minister's mouth is that he wants a broad agreement in this area, so I assume he actually thinks so too. The only thing that may annoy me a little bit in this respect is that the government has not merged the two types of negotiations, so that we could have negotiated taxes and the other initiatives under one hat, but it is the government's choice to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125747	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125801	The left has a slogan called: Left, Danish Liberal Party. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur's position. Does it mean that liberalism, in other words liberalism, is going to be imposed by means of increased taxes on certain behaviour in the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125823	No, I don't think it's in any liberal textbooks, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that you have to put up the cigarette taxes. We have never said so, but we have an objective that we want a smoke-free generation. And I simply do not think we can avoid using the tax tool if that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125845	No, because that is what I hear the Left say, that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane unless it is something that the Left would like. It must be the conclusion, that now the Left wants to achieve a certain behavior, and then it can be more expensive to be a Dane. It's just a new premise that you put for it... it can't be more expensive to be a Dane, but it can be more expensive to be a Dane as long as it's something that the Left seems to make sense. But you can't mean both.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125913	I think it makes really, really sense that we are trying to stop the new generations from starting to smoke, and I think it makes good sense to raise cigarette taxes, the price of a package of cigarettes, so that it becomes less attractive to smoke at all. So, yes, it is at least an opinion that separates the Left from the view that I can almost hear is implicit in the premise of the rapporteur for the new citizens in the way he put the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125945	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. Welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115125954	The cigarettes, they just have to be there! The food is there on the good days, but first comes the drug and then the food comes. The cigarettes aren't even in the books. They just have to be there. How else would you cope with the thoughts, depression, stress, and grief that are often associated with living as a victim? The cigarettes comfort and calm. The cigarettes feel like quality of life, you can enjoy them. And if it's not possible to get them because they're too expensive, then you make money, stealing, begging, sex sales. Or if you are offered Polish contraband cigarettes, which are even more harmful, because production requirements are different. That has been said by Anja Plesner Bloch. All of us rapporteurs today received a letter from the very socially vulnerable whom this is going to hit allerallmost. And they don't have the resources to stop. No matter how many quit smoking courses they are offered chewing gum or medical nicotine, it's hard to stop. I guess you don't know what it's like to be socially exposed and not have money in your pocket. The first thing they get is money for the cigarettes, or they'll find it any other way. It's very telling about what this is also expressing. I wonder when we bring the whole palette, that is to say, they say we have to raise the price. V and K will make it more expensive for Danes who have been protected for many years against tax increases. You hit the ones who have the least. Perhaps it is because the electoral segment of the two parties has the resources. They have the resources to buy whatever it takes to get the treatment they need or to afford to buy the cigarettes that cost $60. The kids and the kids will find them. I was with another rapporteur at a vocational school where I asked where they would get cigarettes if they were too expensive. They say it'll take 10 minutes. They're gonna call, and then they're gonna have a $300 carton. In the cigarettes that they can obtain, a media surveyed DR-- there were 18 mg of carbon monoxide instead of 10 mg. There was 26 mg of tar instead of 10 mg. There were 1.8 mg nicotine instead of 1.0 mg. So that's what we're offering our children instead. We do so instead of looking at what it is that works in some of the other countries. As I mentioned earlier on some of those issues, I can mention Germany. We have often referred to Norway, but of course they have the high price, but there they also say that it depends on schooling. When we look towards Germany, they are at the same price as Denmark. They have also gone in and have been doing school education since 1999, and this has simply made it rattle down compared to how many smoke. You can also see it when you look at the price, compared to how many contraband cigarettes enter the countries. Well, in Denmark we are at 1.8%. copy and contraband cigarettes, in Germany at 4.6 per cent, in Norway at 16.4 per cent. I was told that there was a recent study where cigarette packets had been picked up in Norway. Then you looked at how many were bought in the country and how many came from outside; it was 50 per cent. of the packages that were found. That says a little about the challenges you face. There are also a lot of people who care a lot about ensuring that you do not buy it. But you just put it over to somebody else. There are a lot of people who say that we need to sell free hash because otherwise the gangs make money on it. Well, here you go, if this is going to work, there'll be an increase in crime. Then there's even more they can sell. So no, we can't agree to this. We have said in the past that we will agree to general price regulation. It's 6-8 kr. Over a few years. That's what we could do if it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130427	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130430	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we should listen when, for example, we listen. Users' Academy makes their objections. But I also think it is important to focus on the fact that there are also socially vulnerable people who do not smoke, who are also in difficult situations of life and who also have to make unpleasant choices, because as a society we offer them too few choices. Should we not instead take action there and ensure that there is better access to abuse treatment, ensure that we have the poverty benefits that, for example, are eliminated? The Danish People's Party has helped to introduce, ensure that there was less control at the job centres, and generally ensure that the vulnerable got better and more reasonable living conditions than those they have today? Because I think it will be a little poor if what we need to focus on is only the cigarettes, and if we say that they have the cigarettes, then they have no other problems. That's what seems like medicine for everything. After all, we need to have a broader perspective on this, because I really do not think that socially vulnerable people are different from anyone else. If they were given the opportunities and if they were given the adequate options, they also wanted to stop smoking, so we must help them with that, and we must ensure that they generally have better living conditions and better choice in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130551	I do not agree at all with the rapporteur that if they were merely having proper relationships, they would stop smoking. The rapporteur goes into many other right areas, and the Danish People's Party has also done a great deal for vulnerable, homeless and socially disadvantaged. That's some of what we're fighting for. Yes, we go in and make some restrictive laws when we see that it is people who come from other countries who take advantage of the social laws we have and who force our homeless people out of welfare homes and elsewhere. There we need to tighten up, but elsewhere we help to do better for those at risk, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130629	The rapporteur is right, of course, that we often agree on social matters, but here I can hear that we have a complete disagreement. For us, it is the case that a human being is a human being wherever you come from, and a homeless person is a homeless person, and they must of course be helped. There I just think we need to recognise the premise that we must reduce structural inequality in society and ensure that better choices are generally made. I can only note that the social policy which the Danish People's Party has also helped to bring about in relation to homelessness, vulnerable people and economic life has had dramatic consequences for some of these people. I think that is where we need to put in place and help, and at the same time we need to ensure that they are also given opportunities to stop smoking if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130716	Now there are not so many of them who want to quit smoking. And yes, we disagree. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that we should help the Danes who have worked hard for our society • those who today sit and are pensioners or early retirement workers who cannot just stop smoking and who find it difficult to make the money strike. That's where we're gonna start. If there are a lot of people coming to our country and denouncing our social networks and our economy, it is really difficult and we know that to give the Danes who have actually worked hard what they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130747	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130749	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for also highlighting some of the other dilemmas associated with the proposal. I agree, of course, with the rapporteur that there may be a social battle with citizens who are so dependent on cigarettes that they are not necessarily able to stop. But it still has to be kept away from the fact that we have a challenge in relation to more and more young people starting to smoke, and if you have to break that curve, there are lessons to show that the price is a huge difference between young people starting to smoke or not. These are some of the experiences we have, among other things. has come from Norway. So does the rapporteur not recognise that some very precise handholds are needed in order to prevent young people from even starting to smoke? After all, this is the easiest way to stop, namely that you never get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130849	That is precisely why we want it to be taught more in schools, because that is what we see working. We have not yet seen that it works to make cigarette packs ugly. Now for many years there have been ugly pictures of sick people, and then they went out and said: Now you will see, now people stop smoking. They didn't. The number has increased, as the rapporteur says. Why is that? That is because, when you are young, you go against the system, against your parents, and the more we discuss in here that they are not allowed to smoke, the more cigarettes they will get. They will get them, as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen knows, because it was just the two of us who went to a school and were told that they could get cheap cigarettes in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115130930	That is quite right, and I was very impressed, but some of what the young people also said was that if we had prevented them, for example, from doing so. to buy the cigarettes before they were 18, they might have gotten a little bit smarter. You also said that the price has a bearing on whether you can find a way to start when you are very young. And then they actually also said that once you had become addicted to cigarettes, it was really crap, and that they really wanted to quit again and really wanted help to stop again. The best help is still gone, that you don't get started at all, and that's where the price matters, says Norway's experience. And that is what I would like the rapporteur to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131009	I do not wish to confirm this, because in Norway children have been taught for 20 years. So you don't know what action it is that works. Actually, you don't know that. I know that the Socialist People's Party thinks only of young people. We are also thinking of the homeless, the low-paid, the pensioners and the early-retirement pensioners who have decided that they are adults and that they will be allowed to smoke no matter what. We're thinking about those, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131035	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131037	Thank you. It may surprise me that when DF does not want to raise taxes so much, they will still raise them a little. Wouldn't it be better just to keep them at the current level? What is the reason for raising them a little? When you say that it can harm people with low incomes in particular, it will also have an impact on them. Why do they have to be punished by raising taxes in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131101	The ordinary purchasing mechanism means that all our goods increase in line with the wage and price projections, so we think that is quite normal. We do not need to be the country to which other countries come and buy cigarettes. If our price stands still, it will be us, the Germans and the Swedes, and we think that we should look at our border countries and ensure that we do not become a dumping country so that we get the others to come and buy cigarettes from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131126	Okay, then I just need to get it right. It is believed that if the price of cigarettes is rising, taxes should rise at the same time, or is it the tax that will be tampered with so that they follow a European market mechanism? These are two different tools that you turn on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131143	After all, I am not the tax rapporteur. But what we are looking at is, of course, what cigarettes cost in our border countries, but we are also saying that the ordinary wage and price projections are intended to follow, so that we do not fail the price.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131158	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131200	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there needs to be considerably more action than simply raising the price. I also have complete respect and understanding for the fact that this is also about people other than young people. I agree with the rapporteur. I also have respect for the person who has had gangrene and does not have his legs anymore and who says: I wish I had stopped smoking in time. And that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: when Professor Charlotta Pisinger and Morten Grønbæk of the Council for Prevention point out that, and I quote, the high price of tobacco is actually the tool we have that reduces social inequality most, and that right now it is the poorest smokers who bear the greatest burden from smoking, because it is they who smoke, but that research shows that it is also those who stop when the price is raised, what does the rapporteur think about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131305	Well, I know these two people, and I totally disagree with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131313	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131314	Following this, I would say that research has been carried out which shows that when the price is raised, only one in ten in Europe wants to continue smoking. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131330	Well, you make a lot of statements, and sometimes you take the statements that best fit the context you're in. And sometimes I miss going out and looking at what kind of country we live in, how we look at our borders, how easy it is to get to something else and what it is to start smoking. And I think it could be very important for us to have a look at the whole social effort that we need. Nor do we want children and young people to start smoking, but we also believe that parents have a much greater responsibility than they do. We also believe that we must ensure that young people are trained to take responsibility for their own health, and that is where we want to take action, so that we can think about it. There is so much focus on health, and I think they can find out, but they have to have that education. The education given by some schools in Denmark, called the exit programme, makes half of them stop. So let's get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131421	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131422	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for explaining the position of the Danish People's Party on this issue. Now the rapporteur said so a little fresh and cowardly that the 60 kroner. I guess it was a good fit for our electoral segment. I can clearly deny that, because the segment here simply does not yet have the right to vote. It's about our kids. There are 40 children who start smoking every single day. One third of them will die from smoking if they become dependent on it and continue to smoke. So the question is: what does the Danish People's Party think to do to prevent the children from smoking if you do not want to help raise the price, which we really know is something that bats something and which all the experts say is what it takes to prevent children from starting to smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131508-2	Well, as I've said before, everything the experts bring is a piece of shit. They said when they put pictures on the packages, people would stop. They said, back then, with the restaurants and the taverns, that people would stop, too. But sometimes you do some stupid things. You send people out to smoke outside so everyone can see they're smoking instead of letting them in so you couldn't see the smoke. We'd like to keep the smokers away. Now let them have a place to go and smoke their cigarette, instead of standing outside the hospital with a drip stand, or so that the young people do not have to play cool outside the mattress. Why don't you put them somewhere where you can't see it, teach them at every school? It turns out that it has an effect, and then parents must have a responsibility, and we know that many parents take responsibility for it. And your segment is the more prosperous. They can afford to buy cigarettes, and they can teach their children healthy habits, etc. And that is why we see many times that there is a social battle side.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131604	Now we can also read that the State Institute for Public Health has carried out an analysis that shows that if we get the price up on cigarettes, 40,000 will probably stop smoking. This is also what the Ministry of Taxation takes as its starting point when they make their forecast of how the proceeds will be. I understand that the questioner does not believe in the experts very much. But don't you make an impression after all, when you can see that there will be a lot of people who stop smoking, that is, when we know how unhealthy it is, how harmful it is, how much it shortens especially the lives of the socially vulnerable, so that after all there will be a lot of those who will stop smoking if it is that the price gets high enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131651	So, first of all, we believe that what you do when you are over 18 years of age, you have to decide for yourself, and I actually thought that was the position of Conservatives, so that what people decide to do, whether they drink alcohol or smoke their cigarette, is the quality of life for the individual citizen. And in the case of children and young people: Yes, but you hit everyone in general when you go out and set the price up by 20 DKK. the package. So that's 7,000 kroner. a year, which some of those who have the least money need to get out of their pockets. And apparently that's what Conservatives think you should do to make somebody stop smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131722	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131724	Thank you for the floor. Now Mrs Liselott Blixt is talking about education in primary school, as I think it must be, and there I am thinking as an old schoolman of course, that it has been taught how harmful smoking is for many years, and so far there is little sign that it is working. Then, of course, we can hope that new methods have been put in place. What we know, on the other hand, is the increase in cigarette prices. We can see that in Norway and Australia. In Norway it is only 3%. of the young people who smoke. In relation to the increase in inequality in our society, I think it is a huge challenge, and we fully agree with that. I just do not see how it can be resolved in relation to cigarette prices, and I think there is much to address in the arguments, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund has argued. My question is about smoking cessation courses, because this could reduce some of the inequality, and we know that many people want smoking cessation courses and that they work. What does Mrs Liselott Blixt say about the introduction of free smoking cessation courses?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131834	Well, we have free quit smoking courses in a lot of municipalities. It's something we've given money to through the bet pool, so it's there. There is also an exit programme in some schools I have the figures that I can send to the rapporteur and it is not just a one-year lesson, it is something that is put into schools and resources are needed to finance it. In the municipalities that have done so I think that it is seven municipalities that have done so, you can see that half of the young people simply do not start smoking and that some even stop smoking. This is also what has been done in Norway for 20 years, and in Germany they have also done so, and that is where you can see that that is what helps. And then we have not even begun to talk about sniffing in countries that have few young smokers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131921	Thank you. I think it's great to hear that there are new courses that work. What I'm thinking, then, both in relation to them and in relation to quit smoking courses is: can we be satisfied that only some municipalities use it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115131940	No, that is also why I would like a government to set aside money for it, because the municipalities cannot lift it. I think the rapporteur agrees with me on that. When you talk norms, and I don't know what, in the municipalities, some money is missing. I mean, a lot of things are being cut down. We heard the other day that when they have to cook for cooking classes, housework, or whatever it is today, there are a few crowns per. Man, and sometimes there's not even money for them to get real food. There's money missing out there, so I'd like the government to drop the money. Now that they get some money into taxes, they could do just that, because then you hit exactly where you wanted to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132020	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt and warmly welcome Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132031	Thank you very much, President. Finally, something is happening in the smoking sector. Many of us have been working for that for many years, and it is good that we Radicals are no longer left with a desire for higher cigarette prices. I would therefore like to acknowledge that the Left and the Conservatives are finally ending the price of cigarettes. That deserves real praise. If you ask professionals, the price of tobacco is essential for young people to start smoking. There should be no doubt that the Radical Left backs up and works for higher tobacco prices. Left and Conservatives' suggestion that you should give 60 DKK. for a package of cigarettes is really, really good and it is better than the current prices. The Radical Left would very much like over time a price of DKK 90. I stand here as a prevention rapporteur and I would very much like to see a far higher price for cigarettes than the one that has now been proposed. Listening to the Cancer Society, the Heart Association, the Diabetes Association, the Medical Association, the Eye Association, the Council for Prevention and a number of other health organisations, they have for years pointed out that tobacco is a killer and that the price is crucial to starting smoking. That is why action must be taken now. At current prices, 40 young people start smoking every day and more than 14,000 start a year. At the same time, 13,600 a year die of cancer related to smoking alone. It is a record, and that is not the area that I want Denmark to record. When I ask young people, they mention themselves as an example that it is necessary to raise the price in order to limit consumption. That is why it is a good initiative that has been taken here. But that is not enough. If you ask the young people, and I have done so at Rosborg Gymnasium, where I asked them what they thought should be done, it is not only the price that is crucial. It takes a lot more than that. Young people seem to themselves, and that is among other things. I think it should be listened to that it is a good idea for all schools in an area, as they have done in Vejle, for example, to become smoke-free schools, so that all schools are smoke-free, so that there is no possibility of smoking in the free areas, and so you have to go far, far away if you want to smoke. They also want more campaigns to be carried out. They have among other things: I mean, you're supposed to need something called why not I didn't know it before, but it's making fun of people who smoke. They find this interesting, they like it, and it's a good way to convey the message that you shouldn't smoke. They also believe that it should be made more difficult to obtain tobacco and that the price increases should apply to all tobacco products. It is a clear weakness of the Left and Conservatives' proposal that it is only cigarettes that you want to raise the price. What is the point of moving consumption to something else? That's actually what happened in Vejle. That's where you've got snuff schools instead of snuff schools. That's where the kids started snooping instead. The Radicals want a solution that includes all smoke products. This applies to e-cigarettes, sloping tobacco and what else can be done with tobacco. There are at least 70 carcinogenic products in these various tobacco products. It is simply too serious for you to be able to turn it into nothing. We know that the industry is creative and will work with all sorts of strange products. Price and prevention must be linked. That is what we are discussing with the government now, and that is what we are trying to give them a clear understanding of this speech too. We want the price of tobacco to be significantly increased, not only on cigarettes, but on all tobacco. Let us listen to the young people, let us listen to the fight against cancer, the Diabetes Association, the Heart Association and all the various organisations that have been calling attention for years to the cancer that kills. Let us do so, for we cannot be familiar with young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132520	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132525	Thank you very much. I think I feel like the kids, because when I hear a svada like that, I really want to have a cigarette, even if I don't smoke anymore. It really makes me want to say, "Don't tell me what to do." When I said "You" it wasn't meant for the person, but generally meant. Something that wonders so much is that you want to let the price rise and make it really difficult, so it becomes the criminals who make money on it, but at the same time you want to make hash legal to take it away from the gangs. Can the rapporteur explain how it can be that nicotine products need to be tightened up while legalising hashish?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132610	The rapporteur must be in a position to say that we believe that these tobacco products should simply be priced. So that is what we want on all parameters. We are also doing so, as I referred to when Mrs Liselott Blixt was on the floor just now, because Charlotta Pisinger and Morten Grønbæk have just pointed out how important it is for the sake of public health as such that exactly something is being done about smoking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132649	The rapporteur does not answer my question, because the Radical Left says that it must be recognised that the problems of abuse and gangs in reality require courage for solutions, and that is why they are in favour of hashish trials? Nils Sjøberg Yes, that's correct). How do you explain that at one point you will take something out of the gangs, while then with this you will give them massively more money they can earn? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132717	When we want to do it as an experiment with hashish and, incidentally, also with medical cannabis, we are of the opinion that it is necessary to provide an opportunity to find out how we can get rid of the gangs. That is the view we have in this area while we are in a completely different situation with tobacco, because we do not expect so many people to take tobacco in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132746	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132747	The rapporteur now said that young people should be listened to. Now I've been working with young people for over 20 years, and the young people also want a McDonald's in their cafeteria. Perhaps as an adult you should also always try to look at what is correct. Then I would like to ask the Radical Left: if smoking is so dangerous and so harmful to young people, why do Radicals not put forward a proposal to ban smoking or to ban smoking for young people under the age of 18? If you really mean these things, why don't you go all the way and ban it for the young people if you think it's something the young people shouldn't?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132825	Because we believe that there should be an opportunity for the people to still be able to buy tobacco in Denmark as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132836	Yes, but if a ban is imposed on young people under the age of 18, adult people, adult adults, still have the opportunity to buy it. Now you want to raise the price to DKK 90, but you do that for young people too, which means that only the wealthy, rich young people can continue to smoke. They are totally indifferent, as the young people will be, anyway, because they do not buy cigarettes in shops at the prices they are currently costing. When they cost 90 kroner, they do not buy them at all, which means that the illegal trade will flourish, as it already does.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132906	If we look at how alcohol is going, we know that, despite the fact that we have very clear rules in the area of alcohol in Denmark, young people have the opportunity to get hold of it. That is why we need to set the price so high that whether you can get it or not, it is crucial that the price has an impact on whether you actually smoke or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132931	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132932	Thank you. Did I hear the rapporteur say that his party has always fought a lot to raise the price of tobacco and that it has been fought for for a long time? And then perhaps I did not quite hear the rapporteur say whether the Radical Left supports the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115132955	The Radical Left wants tobacco prices set at DKK 60. Yes, we do. However, we are also of the opinion that we should enter into the negotiations that are currently taking place with the Social Democrats and the Government, which include some of the points that the Left and the Conservatives are not having with them. In other words, we would also very much like to see all the prevention measures involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133017	Can I understand why, in the Radical Left, we believe that our negotiating position in the negotiations on the Finance Act will be reduced if it is the case that we have voted in favour of a proposal requiring the government to raise the price to at least DKK 60.? We agree, of course, that we would like, in the same way as Radicals do, to contribute to raising the price of all tobacco products and all nicotine, so simply raise the whole price level considerably higher than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133044	The Radical Left believes that the price of tobacco must be raised. The Radical Left is of the opinion that we should legislate on the whole, in other words along with other elements. We clearly believe that there are some really positive trends in the proposal that lies here, and that is why we would very much like to be involved in further work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133103	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133114	Thank you very much. It certainly doesn't feel like so long ago that I last stood here on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament and talked about interventions to prevent children and young people from starting to smoke. The difference between then and today is strikingly great, because today we can see a majority for efforts to prevent more children and young people starting to smoke. It wasn't like that a few months ago. At that time, we had another government and then all the proposals which intended to address the serious problem were voted down. Neutral cigarette packs, cigarettes under the counter, smoke-free schools, control, which should ensure that shops comply with the age limit of 18 for tobacco purchases, and the price, which we know is important for the purchase of cigarettes by young people. None of the proposals were successful with the previous government despite an ambitious target of a smoke-free generation 2030. The only thing we agreed on was the objective, but without a single concrete proposal on how. But look at us today! How amazing what a new government can do by difference. And the previous government is just much more offensive in opposition, and I would really like to thank you for that very good for health. SF agrees with the proposers that a package of cigarettes will in future cost DKK 60. This proposal, as the authors also know, has been included in the financial legislation negotiations, and we, together with the proposers, are currently taking part in negotiations on a number of further measures. We trust that we will be able to achieve a very good overall and holistic approach, and that will be our priority. It also means that we do not support this slightly more unilateral proposal, but we are looking for an agreement that will contain all the initiatives that we know will make a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133326	There is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133328	It sounds sad, and I am sorry for those people who are getting less money to buy healthy diets. In fact, I have the same question to the Socialist People's Party, which has said that we must try to sell hashish. It is clear that there is a huge market. People will get their hands on it. It is time for us to put an end to the somewhat old-fashioned approach that it can help to ban, says political rapporteurs. I would like to know how it can be that some income will be taken away from the gangs by legalizing hashish, a drug, and free it for sale, while at the same time going out and introducing something that may also affect another group, i.e. pensioners, early retirement, mentally ill, socially vulnerable and also other ordinary citizens. But right here, in the tobacco sector, you want to give the criminal gangs some more opportunities to sell. But you want to release hash. How can the rapporteur explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133438	It may also be difficult, I think. However, I also think that Mrs Liselott Blixt's question is somewhat in different directions. The one product, hashish, is an illegal product today and causes gang crime. Cigarettes are not illegal, nor are they illegal with the proposals that are currently in place. But I would like to admit that there are some dilemmas in raising the price. I recognise this when Mrs Liselott Blixt highlights the elderly and vulnerable groups over and over again. It just needs to be kept up against the fact that we also know that the price makes a difference and that a number of measures make a difference as to whether we can break the basket for when it is that young people start smoking. And if we can crack that curve so that fewer young people start smoking, then there is also a greater chance that more will be smoke-free in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133530	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133531	But the price is precisely that many more counterfeit cigarettes and illegal cigarettes are being sold, namely cigarettes made in China or India, which emit twice as much carbon monoxide and have more than twice as much tar and nicotine content, as well as rat excrement, tobacco waste and sawdust. So that's what you let the kids buy when they have to pay 300 kroner. for a carton of cigarettes, like 16.4%. of the smokers make in Norway because you have raised the price. It is the gangs who make money from it, and that is exactly what I would like to compare with, because they are the reason why the Socialist People's Party wants to release cannabis so weed for sale, i.e. a drug that you also smoke. Evidently, it is now easier to get ahold of it than cigarettes. Is that what SF wants to see so that it should be quite all right to buy hashish, that is to say something that is euphoric, whereas cigarettes that some can use as long as they want must be banned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133635-2	No, it's a wild conspiracy theory. We know that nicotine is one of the most addictive products at all, and therefore it is incredibly problematic that so many start smoking. I mean, just a week at Roskilde Festival is enough for the kid to sit in the trap for the rest of his life. And that is why we need to take this problem seriously. The fewer people who start smoking, the greater the chance that we can actually reach a smoke-free generation 2030. In fact, I think Mrs Liselott Blixt agrees with me that it would be best for society if none of us wanted to buy cigarettes; if we could be free from addictive products such as nicotine in the long run. I am well aware that this is not something that will happen tomorrow, but in the long run. And we can start with the kids.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133725	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133726	I would like to acknowledge for the rapporteur's consideration that things must be seen in a context and in a whole, that this is about something more than taxes. In other words, there is a broad spectrum of other instruments to be used. Against this background, I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that it would have been a sensible move by the government to bring together these two stages of the negotiations? At the moment, we have a course of negotiations running at the Minister for Health and the elderly, and then there is a course of negotiations with the Minister for Finance. Would it have been wise for the government to combine these two courses of negotiation so that things could have been seen in a context?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133804-2	I would clearly have preferred that myself, and I also think it would have made sense to bring the events together. But I think there is that ulterior motive, and the rapporteur himself must ask the government that it thinks that the money is left in the budget negotiations, and then there is a desire for a broad agreement on the other initiatives. However, I still believe that it should be seen in a context. I simply do not think that one initiative will work without the other initiative being included in the pocket as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133840	Now the rapporteur himself warns against conspiracy theories, so I will be here, but at least we have been told from several quarters that there are zero crowns in the Ministry of Health for debate on preventive initiatives. Perhaps one could have imagined that had things been negotiated together, then the situation might have been different. What is SF's view that we have zero crowns for negotiation in the area of prevention over with the Minister for Health and the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133909	I also believe that the Minister for Health knows that none of the initiatives that we are discussing right now will be made available free of charge, but we also know that something costs and that something else makes money and that it is a balance between these things. I am just concerned that we may at last end up with a broad agreement which means that we can both get something done about the price, which means something about when young people start smoking, and at the same time can also get to grips with some of the other initiatives that we have discussed over the last four years and which we can tackle without much expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133947	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115133949	Thank you. And thank you for the positive expressions in relation to our proposals and the developments that have taken place in this area. As the rapporteur has also said, there has been a parliamentary election since the last debate, and there has been a good slippage in the right direction. After all, we Conservatives were some of the first to fight that we should at least get the price up to at least 60 kr. Now we know that both SF and Conservatives intend to get the price up to at least 60 DKK, and I also know that the alternative in the election campaign was out to say that the price was 60-70 DKK, that Radicals have said 90 DKK, and that Enhedslisten has said 60 DKK. Would it not then be appropriate for you to support our proposal and we had it voted through, in other words simply having it applauded here and now, so that we were sure that now there was really an opportunity to prevent a great many children from starting to smoke? Because we know that the price is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134050	Yes, it might be tempting, but first of all we are not voting on the proposal today, and secondly, the rapporteur knows very well that, as long as negotiations are being held on this particular subject in the context of the financial law negotiations, we are of course leaning towards finding solutions there which we also hope for. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is also the case that we have taken the price of DKK 60. in the financial law negotiations, but we insist that all the other parameters which, together with the price, make a difference should also be looked at. The price therefore does not only do it; other initiatives also need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134128	Then I understand it right: will it be the case that, when a financial agreement is concluded, where the government gets through with the two times 5 kroner, so that the price of a pack of cigarettes over two years will rise to 50 kroner, then will be obliged by it the two years and thus will not be able to contribute to, among other things. with us to raise the price further?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134154	The rapporteur knows very well that the financial legislation negotiations do not really know what will end up, and sometimes it will be a little swings and carousels in the negotiating room. But what I can guarantee is that SF will fight for us to end up with a price of DKK 60, and we will, of course, weigh up our demands in relation to the other measures that we may also receive on the same occasion. Because there is a range of initiatives that need to be launched if we are really to reach the smoke-free generation by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134228	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134229	Thank you. I just have one brief question: does the SF want cigarettes to be illegal for children under the age of 18?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134239	We do. So that was a very short answer. It is illegal to buy cigarettes for children under the age of 18 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134249	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134249-2	That's not what I asked. I asked if it would be illegal for children under the age of 18 to smoke. As it is now, you just want to raise the price, which means that it is the rich children who can still go on smoking while children who are less well-off cannot do so. Is that what you want from the SF, or do you want a stop, and then a ban might appeal to the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134310	Well, it's forbidden to sell cigarettes to children under the age of 18. It is forbidden to sell cigarettes to children under the age of 18, and if the retail trade complied with the rules, there would be no children under the age of 18 who were smokers to the extent that we see it today. The big problem is that for too long the retail trade has got away with selling, and one media after another can send mystery shoppers into shops and find that you can still buy cigarettes, even if you are under 18 years old. For everything in the world, we will have put an end to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134342	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen and warmly welcome to Mr Andersen. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134354	Thank you for that, President. I can say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we fully support an increase in the tobacco tax so that we get a cigarette price of DKK 60. We are doing so because we are in a situation where more and more young people are starting to smoke. This is a deeply worrying development because we know that it will have dramatic consequences for them later in life. It means shorter lifespan, and it means years of smoking-related disorders. Smoking is one of the absolutely greatest factors in relation to the increasing inequality in health, especially because there is an overweight of short-skilled and low-paid among smokers. The vast majority of smokers start before they reach the age of 20. They start with smoking during their childhood or teenage years, and these are the years when you are unsure of your identity and when you consider yourself immortal. The vast majority of them curse later in life on the day they started smoking, and therefore we must make a focused effort to limit the intake of new young smokers. This requires a broad approach, and that is why we are currently debating a plan of action on children and young people's smoking, where we are looking at a wide range of initiatives on tobacco advertising and sponsorship: placing and wrapping tobacco products, smoking in schools and educational establishments, sanctioning sales to minors, regulation of e-cigarettes and other nicotine products, and access to smoking cessation medicines. In addition, there are currently financial negotiations in which taxes on all tobacco products are included. Here the Enhedslisten, together with other good forces that we have heard, is fighting for an increase in the tax on tobacco products, so that the price of cigarettes is precisely 60 kroner. For us, it is absolutely crucial that we ensure in those negotiations that part of the proceeds are used for smoking cessation courses targeted at socially vulnerable and free smoking cessation drugs. Because we know that smoking cessation courses are one of those that has a well-documented effect, but with so many other preventive measures there is a tendency for them to be targeted at the well-functioning middle class. There is a need here to target the socially vulnerable too, as they have much the same desire to stop smoking, but it is just incredibly difficult. Similarly, we want to ensure that part of the proceeds are used to strengthen the Security Council so that we can have a real control over the sale of tobacco and alcohol for that matter to children and minors. These are the elements on which we are currently debating, which is why we cannot immediately support the resolution of the Conservatives, but we can of course welcome the fact that both V and K support our negotiating line, at least on this point, in the financial law negotiations, and I can see that this is at least another example of the fact that it is extremely sensible to hold V in opposition, since it means that they sometimes take more sensible positions than when they are in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134704	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. No one has submitted with brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative, preferably from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134728	Thank you for the floor. In fact, in the alternative, we would like to have cigarette prices up to 80 kroner. per package because we know that prices work. And that's why we also think that 60 kroner. is a good step on the way, and we would really like it to happen in one hurry, so that smokers do not get used to the fact that there will be 5 kr first. more on the price and then 5 kroner. more etc., because then it will not have the desired effect compared to preventing young people from starting to smoke. And, of course, we also believe that we should look at all tobacco products. Right now, it is actually the case that one in four young people either gets stuck or is a party smoker, and it is a dangerous development that we have going on and it is going in the opposite direction of the other countries around us. We are also pleased to be involved in the negotiations in the Ministry of Health in looking at other measures that can prevent young people from starting to smoke. And in the alternative, we would also like to offer free smoking cessation courses to everyone, so we are sure that anyone who would like to stop smoking can have the opportunity without having to pay, in order to counteract the bias that the price increases can give. However, since we are now also involved in the financial law negotiations, we cannot at this stage recommend that this move forward in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen also up here on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115134917	Then came the day when the Left and Conservatives simply overtake a social democratic government in their zeal and urge to control the lives of the citizens. This should no longer be surprising; the choice was made to maintain the world's second highest tax burden and increase the public sector. If you want to look at how much the Left and Conservatives are in the process of abandoning bourgeois values, you can just look at when, last time, top tax reliefs and reliefs were made in corporate tax. It was under a social democratic government, and I would like to thank the current Social Democratic Minister for Taxation and Social Democracy for the top tax concessions, thank the SF for sitting in government and supporting it, and thank the Enhedslisten for holding hands under a government that eased top tax and corporate tax. Danish business and we citizens thank you very much. However, back to the deeply paternal and misguided proposal by the Left and Conservatives, which, through behavioral taxes, wants citizens to follow the wishes of the parties themselves. Yes, you simply want to use financial punishment against people under the slogan if people do not of their own free will do what we want, they must feel and feel it on the wallet and then they can learn it. It can never be a bourgeois policy, it can never be a liberal policy, and we cannot, of course, support it in New Citizens. I am so immensely tired of the power of politicians. Why is it that, right into the Left and Conservatives, the position has been taken that it is the politicians' job to solve each and every one of the small challenges and problems faced by the citizens? Basically, we have the view in New Citizens that if there are children who smoke, parents must step in. It is their responsibility; it is their children; it is not the children of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135128	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments, and one is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135131	Thank you. Of course, it is rare to reject such a thank you, but it was just because the rapporteur thanked Enhedslisten for holding his hand under the government that carried out the terrible tax reform of 2012. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that, of course, the Enhedslisten voted against, and I also believe that the rapporteur, if he remembers back, will remember that Enhedslisten's opposition to the tax reform was quite loud and marked. So thank you for your gratitude, but I think we have to reject it. I should just like to hear the rapporteur now from this very ideological point of view whether the rapporteur is of the opinion that we should then completely abolish tobacco taxes so that tobacco is not taxed at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135216	I remember Enhedslisten's, excuse the expression, a little indifferent rhetorical yelling there around the election campaign. I did not say that you voted in favour, but the fact was that you held your hand under the government, and you did not overthrow the government on top tax concessions, and you did not overthrow the government on corporate tax reductions, and I am very, very happy and satisfied that you did not. When it comes to the question put by the questioner, we are fundamentally opposed to behavioral taxes on citizens as long as they raise taxes. Of course, we would like to see taxes reduced. Nor are we that fundamental in favour of having cigarettes taxed. When you ask whether it is the taxes that are the first and the taxes that we would like to lighten first, I have to say: no, there are some others that we would very much like to lighten before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135255	Thank you for your answer. I understand that new citizens are then in favour of completely abolishing tobacco taxes. It may well be that it is not the first, but at least it is the general approach to it that tobacco taxes should be completely removed. Have any considerations been made about what this will have to do with health inequalities, for example, since we know that this is one of the greatest effects of health inequalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135322	There you have to keep an eye on what I said. I said that we basically do not mean and support behavioral taxes. There are some other charges that stand first. In our financial plan I understand if you have not read it there is no relief of taxes on cigarettes. We believe that there are some other taxes that need to be relieved first. So in the economic plan that we have put forward, there is no reduction in taxes. But with regard to what it will mean for society, it will mean that citizens, families, will start to take care of their own lives and take responsibility for decisions about their own lives, and I very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135353	Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135358	Thank you for that, and thank you for the clear announcement from New Citizens. I was wondering whether it would be a new bourgeois proposal simply to remove those taxes so that people would have the complete freedom of choice. That is actually how the prices of cigarettes have been discussed now. looking at England, costs a pack of cigarettes in the vicinity of 66 DKK, in Ireland a pack of cigarettes costs 75 DKK, and in Norway we know that it is approaching the 90 DKK, and there was one who was inside saying that in Germany the level was the same as in Denmark. But a package of Marlboro actually costs nearly 48 kroner in Germany. Do we not, as politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that one third of the children who start smoking may die from smoking? We see figures summarized, and if you can make a smoke-free vintage, which is what we are aiming for, you can avoid 75,000 cancers, 70,000 coll cases and at least 60,000 fewer cases of cardiovascular disease. Doesn't it impress New Citizens that all the experts say that if we're going to have a smoke-free youth year, then we should raise the price significantly so that we can avoid these scary consequences that children start smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135512	Basically, we do not have the same paternal approach as Conservatives. Because where do we stop? We could also ensure that there were significantly fewer cancers if we banned a large number of food products. So that's the next thing we're gonna go for? Why stop with cigarettes? Why are these cigarettes exactly? No, sometimes people make choices that are not wise choices, and people must be allowed to do so, and it is not the job of politicians to pick up every mistake we people make. I don't want to live in a society like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135543	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135544	I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135555	The next is Nils Sjøberg from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135600	Thank you for that clear point of view on the part of the new citizens. I would like to follow up on the policy that New Citizens are putting forward here. What lies in it is also a question of how to distribute costs in our society. Will you let people who are inclined to get sick from this, get cancer, you will look great at what the Cancer Combat is doing, and what the Diabetes Association, the Heart Association and the Eye Association are doing and point out: we have to set up the tobacco tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135640	I think it is quite nasty that the Radical Left is talking about the distribution of expenditure, the Radical Left, which supports an alien policy that costs more than 30 billion. kr. Every year for Danish taxpayers. If we had a proper immigration policy, there were plenty of means to lift the Danish health service if that is what you want. In addition, I know that the Radical Left would say that cigarettes should cost DKK 90. This proposal will completely destroy the possibility that we can have a culture in Denmark where you decide for yourself. It will create an illegal market, it will create a border trade, and it will make people want to get their cigarettes in other ways. The Danes are a people who have been used to a high tax burden on politicians for decades, and one has become a bit good at juggling between this, and so will one. So the proposal that Radicals want, with DKK 90, will have no effect whatsoever on either public health or on the ability of the Danes to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135742	This means that New Citizens will not accept the social responsibility that lies in people quitting smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135751	You can set the price of cigarettes at 90 kroner. The same package of cigarettes costs at Prague Airport 25 DKK. The difference is that you have to take 40 packs of cigarettes home, which means you can fly to Prague, buy 800 cigarettes and fly back home and have a prize of DKK 1,500. What do the rapporteur himself think the Danes will do? Will they just keep buying the cigarettes in Denmark for 90 kroner. per pack, or will they jump on the plane, fly to the airport in Prague and buy 800 cigarettes and then fly back home and smoke them and then save the money? Yes, you could actually get a weekend, and that would be good for public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135837	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135841	Thank you. And that was in itself the rapporteur's reply to Mr Beazley's question. Per Larsen, who gave me the opportunity to ask an extra question. For the rapporteur says that people sometimes make unwise decisions, and that is what they should be allowed to do. Nicotine is the most addictive substance at all, so my question to the rapporteur is: does it also apply to children? Are children also allowed to make unwise decisions, or should we make efforts to at least protect children from making such unwise decisions that, in the long term, they may lose quality of life because they are actually becoming ill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115135922	In fact, I put a question to the rapporteur before, on two occasions: whether the SF would prohibit young people from smoking, not to buy tobacco, but to smoke, i.e. whether they would do it illegally. I couldn't get an answer to that. When it comes to children, we have a responsibility, which is why it is good that people, for example. can't smoke in schools. There is also a huge responsibility at the shops. Now we are in tobacco-prevention negotiations right now, and I am not going to refer to the negotiations, but I can say what New Citizen's position on that is. We would like to look at tightening up the penalties for the shops that keep selling cigarettes to children under the age of 18, but when children smoke, whether they smoke in their spare time or go home, it is and remains a parental responsibility. As politicians, we have a responsibility to punish those shops that do not comply with the law and sell cigarettes to them. That is where the responsibility of politicians begins, and that is where it ends.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140020	Does the rapporteur think it would be a good idea for us to do what we can to prevent children from getting into this very bad habit and, in the long term, to become daily smokers, for example? to ensure that the price is so high that children cannot afford to buy cigarettes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140042	The premise that we must do what we can is almost inexhaustible. Does that mean we should ban it? Does that mean we have to put children in jail for smoking cigarettes? Well, if we're gonna do what we can, where's the limit? Should we completely ban cigarettes for everyone throughout Denmark? Perhaps that will also have a meaning. So I can't tell you if we're gonna do what we can. But if the rapporteur can give a precise question about what we should be doing, then I would like to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140109	Thanks for the effort. And before mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen goes down, I would just like to say that, in relation to the question of short remarks, everyone is entitled to a brief comment to the rapporteur and that the rapporteur has the right to reply to each of the short remarks that are made. We are also entitled to a further brief comment, which is even shorter and to which the rapporteur has the right to reply. That is why I say that there is no possibility of replying to a remark that has not been made. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140147	Thank you for the floor. When I came at the age when I had to start thinking about smoking, I also had a burning desire to become a club champion in 100-metre butterfly. The desire to become a clubmaster won, and I never got started smoking, even though I lived in a rural area where most people smoked. And I appreciate that today, because smoking is and is becoming unhealthy, and it is not recommended to anyone. So in that sense I do agree with the authors of the motion. But it is not the case that because a substance has certain harmful effects, this substance automatically triggers the optimal control policy for itself. A good example is control policy in relation to drugs. Some are more dangerous than others. Nevertheless, at least since sociologist Jacob Hilden Winsløw in 1984 published the book "Narreship" it has been such that there was a widespread professional understanding of the view that the Danish drug control policy is very inappropriate and irrational. And to some extent this is linked to the fact that control policy is a historical and cultural dimension. In formal terms, alcohol is an organic solvent. I should not say that on a Friday, even on a Friday, when you can start to see Christmas so small on the horizon. If you reported a new-found drink at 40%. organic solvent for the Danish Food Authority today, it would probably not be approved. Now we have the rules we have, and most people, including myself, think that is sensible enough. So tobacco is harmful, but what control policy should it trigger? It makes sense that we have rules that protect against the negative externalities of smoking, as an economist would call it. We should not simply have the right to pester the air for others and to impose massive costs on other people for cleaning and washing. It can also be argued that when we all pay for health care, smokers should pay an amount of tax which is roughly equivalent to their additional health care features. However, we do not think in LA that control and taxation policy should now go further than the principle of these negative externalities, without any consideration being given to creating a reasonably consistent set of principles and rules. Should controls be graduated according to the extent of adverse effects? That should be discussed. And what about the social dimension? I think there are far too many political parties here trying to jump over how hard it is, not all, but many. It plays, for example. • a significant role for the discussion on differentiated pensions, such as: Unskilled workers have a high excess mortality rate. If it is to be taboo to discuss that a large part of the excess mortality is due to the KRAM factors, that is, diet, smoking, alcohol and exercise. definition never become a fair discussion on an important subject such as differential pension. For then we can end up in a situation where all taxpayers end up having to pay a big bill for some personal choices that are more common in some social groups than in others. We are not going to have that discussion here, but it is very important. So there is a need for some kind of moratorium in which we are discussing the whole issue of tobacco control policy. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140632	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we have now reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115140652	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate in which the views on the proposal have been expressed. To the proposal there is to be said: smoking kills, and therefore smoking and children obviously do not belong together. That's how short it can be said. Nevertheless, in Denmark we have very low prices for cigarettes when we compare ourselves with our neighbouring countries, although we know that the price is absolutely crucial for whether children start smoking. That is why, of course, the price of cigarettes must also be significantly increased. Because it is the health of our children that is at stake. 40 children start smoking daily, one out of every three of them will die from smoking if they continue. At the same time, we know that we can prevent 75,000 cancers, 70,000 cases of col and 60,000 cases of cardiovascular disease if we ensure a smoke-free juvie. It says everything about how serious a subject it is that we have discussed and discussed today. For me, it is quite clear that cigarette smoke simply does not belong in children's lungs, and that is why we must do what all the experts say is necessary, namely raise the price significantly. May I not remind you that it is not so long ago that our society looked quite different when it came to smoking and where it was not known at all about the link between smoking and the harmful effects, such as smoking. lung cancer, but we do today. It was at a time when teachers and educators had to smoke in classrooms and in kindergarten. In fact, it was not until the mid-1990s that the first steps were taken. So, fortunately, we can no longer smoke in public premises or in public transport and elsewhere. We have therefore done a great deal to ensure that children are mostly spared cigarette smoke, and this is a positive development. But there is still cause for concern. Unfortunately, for the first time in 20 years, the number of smokers is beginning to increase. This is partly due to the fact that more children are starting to smoke, and we must certainly take this seriously. Fortunately, we know what needs to be done, namely a significant price increase. Now it is not because I have to put more pressure on the Socialists, but I would like to comment once again on the proposal that the price of cigarettes should be raised to DKK 50. It is an increase of only DKK 10, spread over two laps with a five in 2020 and a five in 2021, and it is far from ambitious enough. That's what Cancer's Combating says. However, if you want to phase in more taxes and maximize revenue, 50 DKK. for a pack of cigarettes the perfect level. However, it should not be about recovering maximum taxes and charges. Instead, it should be about getting fewer children to smoke. I also often hear this, and it has also been said today, with that 60 kroner. for a pack of cigarettes will have a social battle side. And yes, it is true that it is not by chance who smokes today, just as it is not by chance who gets cancer, col and cardiovascular diseases. And I would rather fight for cancer to hit less socially wrong than for the price to hit socially wrong. And why is it at least 60 kroner that we have proposed? Yes, first of all it is because we can reduce smoking among children by 75%, while at the same time we know that an increase of DKK 10. is too little. Lotus Sofie Bast, a social health researcher at the University of Southern Denmark, has said: "10 kroner's increase is too little, and a phase-in over time is against all recommendations. It's watering down the shock effect that could make more people stop. Yes, it cannot be said more clearly: against all recommendations. I hope that we in the Danish Parliament will find a way to follow the recommendations of the experts. I would therefore also like to conclude by saying to the rapporteurs who have otherwise indicated that they would like to have the price high: you all said in the election campaign that you would raise the price to at least DKK 60. We can create a majority for this together, because the time is not yet ripe for gambling with the health and health of our children; the time is ripe for raising the price of cigarettes for our children's sake. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141215	You're welcome, sir. Per Larsen, who is the proposer. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141225	Thank you for a good suggestion. I am pleased that the Conservatives are putting forward a proposal to set the tobacco price up to DKK 60. I fully agree with the views that Mr. Per Larsen expressed himself. But what else will you do? We have a clear view that much more needs to be done, among other things. smoking cessation courses, etc. Has the Conservative People's Party considered this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141253	We're in on it all. In other words, negotiations are under way in the Ministry of Health, where we had also hoped that prices would be part of the package. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. But we're in on it all. We really want to do what needs to be done and what we can agree on when it comes to reducing the number of smokers in Denmark. All tools must be put into use, and we know of a large number of the things that have an effect. So we simply intend to create a smoke-free Denmark on the long track and the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141330	Thank you. I'm glad. Then I would like to ask: will the Conservative People's Party also help to possibly raise the price higher than the 60 DKK.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141340	We have said at least 60 kroner, and we also intend to go further over time. The experts recommend that we start with something that looks like 60 kr., and then it raises further over time. So these are the intentions on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141401	Thank you. I do not see that anyone else would like to make brief comments, so we thank Mr Seligman very much. Per Larsen for today's efforts. There seems to be no one else who wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191115141425	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 November 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
