ParlaMint-DK_20191023100012	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 39 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy, the Act on Natural Gas Supply and the Law on Electricity). Bill No. L 40 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Registration of Lineowners and the Law amending the Law on the Registration of Lineowners). Sikandar Siddique (ALT) and Mira Issa Bloch (ALT): Enquiry no. F 11 (Will the government explain how it believes the increased monitoring (online and through e.g. surveillance cameras) affect the fundamental freedoms of Danes, including citizens' rights to privacy?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Member of the Folketing Simon Emil Ammitzbøll Bille has announced on 22 October 2019 that he wishes to withdraw from the parliamentary group of the Liberal Alliance. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll Bille is then outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100102	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. On request, as in previous practice, I will allow one member from each group to choose to justify the group's position on the exemption issue. Each speaker shall, if necessary, have one minute's speaking time up here from the platform. I do not know whether all the groups wish to justify it, but we take the speakers in the order in which they may turn themselves in. Sir. Peder Hvelplund has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100149	Thank you. We must now decide whether the Folketing should deal urgently with a legislative proposal with very far-reaching consequences. It is a proposal that transfers power from the courts to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and gives the Minister the power to deny individuals their Danish nationality without the question being referred to a judge. It is therefore a proposal which transfers power from the judiciary to the executive, and it is a proposal which is crucial in the division of power. In short, it is a proposal which, on several sides, is rocking the Danish rule of law. And for the discussion of this proposal, which is essentially landmark, a week's time has been set aside for the consultation phase which normally takes one month, after which Parliament will have a few days from Tuesday to final adoption on Thursday. In the Enhedslisten we are opposed to the whole proposal, but before we come to substance we have to warn the Danish Parliament very strongly not to deal urgently with a proposal of this nature. The majority in favour of the proposal should also understand that a proposal as far-reaching as this one deserves to be dealt with more thoroughly than the one proposed by the government. I just want to point out that the hearings were held at 8:00 a.m. 18.44 yesterday evening, and they all say that it is a very dubious process, that it leads to a deterioration in the quality of the law-making process and can lead to lawlessness, and I must therefore ask in particular the SF and Radicals to support the Alternative and Enhedslisten in refusing to deal with this proposal urgently so that we can have a proper and fair legal treatment of such a serious proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100328	Thank you. The next person to ask for the floor is Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100339	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we are fully aware that asking for a vote does not follow the normal procedure, but the situation we find ourselves in is not normal either. For with Bill No. We run the risk of undermining the fundamentals of our democracy, namely the fundamental rule of law on the division of powers. Such a bill of principle should not be dealt with urgently, but the parties of the Folketing should have a decent time to deal with it, so that we can carefully assess the consequences such a proposal will have for our community of law. We therefore call on all parties on the alternative side to use the vote to slow down, to think about the bill and to stop the urgency of this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100440	Thank you. As no one else has asked for the floor, we shall now be voting in favour of the first item on the agenda. Pursuant to Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure, a majority of three quarters of the votes shall be required to secure such consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100448	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 95 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, NB and LA), against 13 (EL, ALT, Zenia Stampe (RV) and Jens Rohde (RV)), abstentions 0. I can therefore see that consent has been given. We can therefore proceed to item 1 of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law, but we will wait a few minutes so that there can be proper and quiet in the Chamber. L 38.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100617	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023100636	Thank you. When the security of the people is threatened, we, as politicians, have a duty to act and to do everything we can to protect the people who elected us. That is the situation we are in now. The worrying developments in northern Syria pose a risk that a number of Danish citizens who have fought for the Islamic State will move against Europe and thus against Denmark; people who have otherwise turned their backs on Denmark to such an extent; people who, for some, claim to have done terrible things for the Islamic State. They are deeply radicalised, have received weapons training and, according to the Police Intelligence Service, pose a serious security risk to the Danish population. In my view and in the view of the Social Democrats, we must do what we can to ensure that those people never return to Denmark. The aim of the law we are discussing today is to keep potential terrorists away from Denmark, and the Social Democrats support that. However, although consideration for our security and the security of the kingdom and of the Danes is of course crucial, it is not a consideration that can stand alone. Therefore, it is both good, right and important that with the bill we stick to the division of power, which is fundamental to the rule of law Denmark, so that here in the Folketing we adopt legislation, that the government and its authorities apply legislation with regulations, circulars and decisions, and then judge the courts. This is crucial for the social democracy and, of course, we respect the constitution, international conventions and also human rights. Then I understand that there are some who believe that we should be able to go directly to the courts in the first instance from the start. I understand the argument, but I do not agree with the argument. It is up to the executive to take decisions. It is now the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration that decides whether, for example, you can withdraw your residence permit if you are in conflict zones. In other contexts, it is the executive who decides whether to lose social benefits or whether to have a child forcibly removed. That's what power looks like. Then you can have the decision tested by a court before you can have your case tried by a court. The second problem with direct judicial review as a first instance is in this case that it would undermine the very purpose of the legislation, which is to ensure that the people concerned by the bill do not find themselves in Denmark. If we were merely to deprive these people of citizenship by passing judgment in the city court, we would only be able to do so when they were in Denmark, thereby exposing our citizens to a security risk that is not reasonable. Then I know that some people are concerned about the retroactive nature of this legislation. What is crucial for me and the Social Democrats in this context is that the rules on when to withdraw citizenship are not changed. The rules that allow you to lose your citizenship when the Folketing, hopefully, adopts the bill we are discussing today are the same rules that apply today and that applied yesterday. The only difference is the process, and that is why I believe that the legislative proposal we are debating today cannot be called legislation with retroactive effect. I would like to say that I am pleased and satisfied that the government has listened to the hearings and also to arguments put forward by other parties, which means that it is now possible to depart from the time limit for judicial review in exceptional cases, and that we have decided to review the law in about a year and a half, i.e. to introduce a proper sunset clause. In the Social Democratic Party we support the proposal, but I would also like to emphasise that I have a strong understanding of the fact that there are feelings about the legislative proposal, because on the one hand it is about some of the innermost aspects of our democracy, some of the things that we put the highest value, namely our rule of law, our basic democratic principles, and on the other it is about the security of our citizens. I believe that the government and hopefully a broad majority in the Folketing, when we adopt this bill, strike a fair balance between those considerations, and on that basis I can say that the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101112	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101116	Thank you. It is, of course, a serious matter that we are dealing with here, and I do not think anyone is in any doubt that we should of course be able to act in relation to different situations that arise. But I'd like to ask Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, about the government and the Social Democratic Party here invokes emergency law. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur what it is that specifically prevents anyone from coming to this country in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101158	I think you could hear and that Mr. Jens Rohde could hear from my speech that the Social Democrats agree that this is a serious matter we are dealing with. I do not think this is really an emergency law, but it does not change the fact that it is a serious matter. Then the rapporteur asks what it is in the legislation that prevents the people we are talking about coming to Denmark. What is crucial here is, of course, that when we decide to remove a citizenship administratively, we can do so in a situation where the citizen to whom the decision is addressed is outside the country's borders. If the decision were to be taken by the court, the citizen would have to be within the country's borders. That is what matters. I would like to add that if we did so by a court order at first instance, we would also be faced with the challenge of which we have a number of examples, namely that it is quite difficult to get rid of these citizens once they have been served, and then we have placed them at Kærshovedgård and elsewhere where they will pose an unreasonable risk of safety for the citizens we have been elected to represent for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101303	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101304	That's a little funny reasoning coming here. If they come to this country and they are suspected of something, they will surely be arrested and charged and incarcerated, in other words put before a judge immediately, just like anyone else who commits crime. I guess that's what you're supposed to do. Therefore, I find it difficult to see that they would then pose a safety risk to the Danes. They are more likely to pose a security risk if they go free. I am glad that the rapporteur does not invoke emergency law, but then the question is precisely how in the world can we amend our law on justice so drastically that the law on justice that has existed in Denmark since 1919.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101349	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101350	I think my argument can be blamed for many things, but that it should be funny is not one of them. It is essential for me to say that I do not share the view that we are changing the division of power, which is why I also disagree with the last argument put forward by the rapporteur. I think we must also be honest and say that with this bill we do not ensure that none of the people to whom the law is directed can enter Denmark. Of course we do not. However, we are making it more difficult and we have an opportunity to ensure that some of them do not come to Denmark, and I think we need to be aware of when we talk about such serious things that if just one person comes here too much, it can have quite unreasonable consequences for our people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101432	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101434	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I fully agree that we are in a very serious situation here, both in relation to the concrete but also in relation to the process that has been going on around this bill. And when it is such a serious matter, I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that it could have been resolved here by taking the suspected foreign fighters who are in prison down there home to Denmark, precisely to ensure that they were brought to justice, that evidence was provided and that they might have been convicted and later imprisoned if they thought this was serious. The government has then chosen not to do so, and now you are in this situation, and that is something to be regretted. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. After all, the comments on the draft law show that there is a minor procedural risk. This means in general Danish that the government recognizes that this may be contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, that is to say, the international conventions, and our common understanding, that is to say, the understanding document, and I quote, that we must respect international conventions at all times. Does the rapporteur think that there is agreement between what we are adopting now and what is in the understanding paper?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101550	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101553	The situation we will have if we allow them to come to Denmark and get a punishment is that after serving punishment, even if we deny them Danish citizenship, they are within the country's borders, and then it can be very difficult to get them out again. Thus they pose a greater threat to our common security than if they never come back to Denmark. That is why we want to deprive them of citizenship while they are outside Denmark. Those people who choose to go to Syria and fight for the caliphate's terrorist cause have themselves chosen a one-way ticket away from our community, and so we will do everything we can to keep them from coming back again. In view of whether we override the circumstances described in the understanding paper, I would just like to say that I certainly do not think we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101657	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101658	Thank you. Well, it should still be the case that if, for example, you do... It should be the case that when you return to Denmark, you will be arrested and brought before a judge and sentenced. That is the normal procedure. What is happening here is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has the power to make a court-like decision and deprive a citizen of citizenship. This is a breach of the case law we normally have. Then I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that if it turns out that this is contrary to international conventions, that is to say the Convention on Human Rights, then that decision will of course be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101741	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101742	It is a very difficult question to answer in 30 seconds. What is to say in relation to the risk of the process is that it is the lawyers in the central administration's opinion that this clearly remains in the area of human rights. Then it is true that they write that there is a minor procedural risk. The process risk they indicate is at the very least one can indicate it at, and it is about the fact that there are not enough sentences to say that there is not the limited process risk. But it is the assessment that it is within our international obligations, and thus also clearly within what we have written in the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101818	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101821	It is an incredibly exciting introduction to the left-wing thinking that we are exposed here. I mean, it's just some poor criminals who have lost their way in Syria and have to go home and be rehabilitated in prison, isn't it? Not a word about the people who have turned their backs on Denmark; not a word about the people we have to deal with as traitors against what we all call Denmark, our homeland. I believe that this calls for some kind of reflection, both on the part of the Minister and on the part of the rapporteur, on what are actually some rather extreme parties on which one builds one's government. Having said that, I would like to ask the rapporteur how reasonable it is, in fact, that it is an international convention, a UN convention, I think, which clearly determines that there is a whole series of Syrian warriors that we do not want and therefore cannot, it is said, withdraw citizenship. I mean, why are only people with dual citizenship really involved? The people who alone have Danish citizenship are also traitors; they have also turned their backs on Denmark. Shouldn't they be treated the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023101919	First of all, I would like to say that I share the rapporteur's view that the people against whom this bill is directed are people for whom it is extremely difficult to have anything at all. They have turned their backs on our community to such an extent. They are a security risk to all of us sitting here, our children and our families. Having said that, it is clear that the legal principles on which we are building our society also apply to those people on whom we do not like. That is why I am happy to take the debate on these issues and actually do so with an upright forehead. In relation to the rapporteur's second question about why we cannot deprive all Syrians of their citizenship, this is because we cannot deprive people of their citizenship if it means that they become stateless, and that is the result of international conventions, human rights, and these are rules that the government and the Social Democrats support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102016	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102017	The rapporteur says you cannot. That's not true. You don't want to. We will not, because we insist that the international conventions are above the Danes' right to live safely and safely on the streets. Well, that's the thing, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. I just think we should say that because if the only schism that determines who can and who cannot get citizenship is the UN conventions, then that means that the UN conventions for social democracy and for the government are more important than the fact that we do not have foreign fighters on the streets here on land.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102049	We have acceded to the international conventions and, of course, we stand by them. This does not mean, of course, that if there are Syrian warriors who return home and can enter our country because we cannot reject them and they may be Danish citizens, yes, we will sue them and give them very severe punishment. And we are going to keep an eye on them and do what we can to ensure from the authorities that they do not commit terrorism or anything else in Denmark. Having said that, the government is working to ensure that convictions, judicial processes and service are carried out in the areas where the crimes have been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102127	It's Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102128	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for presenting this bill. I think, however, that there is something that the rapporteur is slipping over slightly, namely that the comments on the legislative proposal state that it is a relevant, flexible and effective tool. It is, of course, the case that the draft law now changes how citizenship can be withdrawn in this country. And that may not actually be so relevant, but at least flexible and effective. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: since today we are spending so much money running courts, could we not also change it so that it became a little more relevant, flexible and effective?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102211	No, I don't see any need for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102214	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102216	I'm glad. That just makes me ask the next question: why is there a need to do this? I understand from the rapporteur that there is a great deal of concern about the safety risk, but these people are also a safety risk where they are now. Now we have parked the problem with our allies in the fight against IS instead of taking these people home to Denmark where we can prosecute them. Why will the Social Democracy not help Denmark's allies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102245	We would like to help Denmark's allies to ensure that there is a conviction in the vicinity, but we will not contribute to these people coming back to Denmark. That is why we are seeking support for the adoption of the bill. We will do everything we can to ensure that these people do not return to Denmark, and we therefore propose that they may be deprived of their citizenship by administrative means if they have dual nationality. They can also have the judicial review of the decision taken by the authorities. Therefore, this is entirely within the scope of the general principles of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102315	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102316	Thank you. I would like to ask you about this, because the starting point is that those who are taken away from citizenship must have dual citizenship. Nevertheless, a member of the cat's family has been formulated, since he can take Danish citizenship from a person and make him stateless if he can acquire citizenship in another country by simply registering with the authorities of that country. So if there is just one of the other 192 countries in the world where you can get citizenship by registering, then Danish citizens can with this bill be made stateless, and without having fulfilled a criminalised crime content in Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. What does the rapporteur really think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102406	We say very clearly with the bill we are discussing today that we do not want to make people stateless, that is that we cannot deprive Danish citizens of their nationality if they do not have a different nationality or if they cannot turn to another state and obtain citizenship without having to make a real estimate. I know that is not possible in any country today. That is why it is important for me to stress that we do not deprive any Danes of their citizenship if they do not have another citizenship. But we are putting this element into legislation because we want to have the possibility if a situation arises in the future, where a person with a Danish citizenship who is likely to lose it, could be deprived of citizenship if he or she can obtain citizenship in another country simply by applying. But as far as I know, that option is not available today. What matters is that we do not take away citizenship if we become stateless.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102513	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102514	Thank you for your answer. But then I just want to hear from the rapporteur what legal certainty it means for the citizen who only has Danish citizenship that a member of the cat has been formulated in these remarks that if the person concerned can acquire citizenship in another country, that is to say in one of the 192 other countries that exist, than just Denmark, by simply registering with the authorities of that country. That's a lot of people you have to choose from. What legal certainty does it seem to create in relation to possibly making someone stateless?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102549	With the comments I had in my first reply that this legislation is intended to ensure that none of the people addressed by the law becomes stateless, I think that legal certainty is quite OK.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102608	Then it's Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102610	Thank you for the floor. Legislative proposal L 38 is a matter of legal principles, but, as the rapporteur points out, it is also a question of the level of threat to the realm. The rapporteur is of the opinion that the removal of citizenship increases the threat to the empire by allowing foreign fighters to run freely in the wider world and thus potentially putting terrorist plans against, among other things, the country. Denmark, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102644	I believe that we are reducing the threat to the kingdom by adopting the bill we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102651	Here you go, Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102654	But is it not better for these foreign fighters to be brought before a judge in Denmark and imprisoned if they have committed something criminal, so that they cannot walk around, find themselves in different places in the world where they can plan terror against the kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102712	We want these people to be convicted in the areas where crime has been committed, including the crime committed against the Danish state. I believe that the Danish Empire increases its security by doing everything we can to ensure that these people do not return to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102729	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102731	I could understand from the rapporteur that this is such a whole-by-book legislative proposal, that is to say that this is what we are doing and that nothing new is happening with regard to the division of power, they say. It is rather the same as that, if there is something about some social benefits, you can also have it tested in a court afterwards. At the same time, however, the rapporteur says that there has been a great deal of listening to the answers that have been received. It speaks a little against each other. Does the rapporteur really think that this is entirely according to the book that we in no way change anything in our practice about the division of power, because that is just how we usually do it, so also after you have read the consultation answers that came last night?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102811	I have read the hearing answers that have been given quite carefully, and I have not said at any time that I agree with all the views expressed in the hearings. What I agree with concerns the possibility of dispensing with the deadline and the sunset clause. That seems to me to be sensible objections to which we should adhere to the law. I believe that the change we are making today is entirely within the principle of the division of power. And I believe that it does, because we maintain that it is the Folketing that makes the law, that it is the executive that makes decisions and that there is a possibility that the decision can be tried by a court of law. Then I also mentioned a number of quite intrusive decisions, such as the fact that you can have children removed from the labour market who follow the same logic. I am not saying that there is equality between cases; I am simply trying to give some examples of the same logic, namely that it is authorities that make decisions and that they can then be tried in court.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102926	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023102928	But just to understand that logic, because this is all about some people who have done something criminal, something illegal, and that is why you want to deprive them of Danish citizenship, that is to say, a rather large and harsh punishment, and it is after all according to this proposal that the Minister should judge whether there is enough evidence to do so, I want to hear: how can that comparison even come from the rapporteur? It must then be recognized that the Minister is being turned into the judiciary, in other words, as to whether the conditions under which the persons have gone have been criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103005	You don't turn the minister into the judiciary. The draft law provides for the Minister's lawyers to take a decision in relation to whether the persons against whom the bill is addressed have been detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. That decision will then ultimately be taken by the Minister and, if you disagree with that decision, you can have it tried by the courts. And that is why the proposal is fully within the principles we are generally familiar with as the division of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103038	Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103039	Thank you. I think it is timely care that citizens who are at risk of the country can be deprived of their citizenship. So, foreign fighters are not welcome in Denmark, and I think it is nice to hear that the government will do everything in its power to prevent them from coming to Denmark, including depriving them of citizenship. But why is it that you say that you will do everything you can when you really only turn to the group that has dual citizenship? Are not those who have only Danish citizenship but who are foreign warriors dangerous to Denmark? Are you more dangerous to Denmark when you have dual citizenship than when you have a single citizenship and are a foreign warrior?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103120	For those who are double citizens, we have the possibility of administratively depriving them of citizenship and thus doing what we can so that they do not return to Denmark. That's what we're doing today. For the second group, it is true that, according to the international rules which we have agreed to, we cannot deprive them of citizenship, which would make them stateless. We must then prosecute in Denmark, judge in Denmark and then keep an eye on them in Denmark. So there should be no doubt that the returned Syrians, who are only Danish citizens, can also pose a threat, and that is why we are doing everything we can to deal with that threat as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103159	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103200	But it is also not right that the government will do everything possible to prevent foreign fighters from returning to Denmark. Because you only want to go after a small group, namely those who have dual citizenship, and then you want to leave it to the UN Redeemer's Convention, because that is what you seem to be more important than the security of the realm, which you therefore think is more important by not taking up cases where people have only one citizenship. So the government really doesn't do everything it can.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103236-2	I can assure the rapporteur that we will not just go after a small group. The authorities will certainly come after the group which only has Danish citizenship. We will prosecute them, if possible judge them, and we will subsequently ensure that the authorities keep a very close eye on them, so that we do everything we can to ensure that those people do not pose a security threat to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103301	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103303	I understand from the rapporteur that the purpose of this proposal is to prevent certain people coming to Denmark. At the same time, I hear the rapporteur say that it is all about hitting people who have dual citizenship. In other words, people will still be in possession of citizenship and a passport from another country. How, then, would that prevent them from coming to Denmark? The second question is, since the government has now been in office for five months: when did the government or the Social Democrats realise that these people actually posed a threat? And what has been done until this urgent proposal was presented?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103347	I think it is quite obvious that we are making a return to Denmark difficult when we take away these people a Danish passport. Thus we do everything we can to ensure that those people with dual citizenship who are Syrians, who have turned their backs on Denmark, who have fought in the service of, for example, IS, do not return to Denmark. That is the purpose of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103414	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103415	We can see that people who have a different passport can come to Denmark's borders where they saw, for example. can seek asylum, and then one will probably put them in jail, just as one would if they had a Danish passport, and I assume that an interpolated search has been sent out on all of them. But the second question is of course interesting, because this is not about fighting Islamic State. After all, it is a question of both the old government and the current government never wanting to fight Islamic State because, among other things, they want to fight. Didn't want to help the Kurds deal with those people. That is why I have to ask again when the rapporteur would not reply: what has the current government done to help the Kurds to keep these people locked up, that is, that there was a strict guard and that they could not escape and that they were prosecuted until this bill was brought forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103500-2	I do not think that I have suggested from the platform today that this bill solves all problems. But it is quite obvious to me and to the government that to a very large extent we are making it difficult for these people to return to Denmark, and thus the bill will also help to ensure that a number of these people do not return to Denmark. It is vital that we do everything we can to ensure that as many Syrians as possible do not return to Denmark because they pose a security risk. In relation to the situation in northern Syria, Denmark has been active in a coalition which has contributed to the same struggle in which the Kurdish forces have contributed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103544	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103545	Thank you so much. I noticed that the rapporteur mentioned this here with a sunset clause in the law, and I wonder a little bit, because I had at least got the impression earlier from the Social Democrat and Minister that it was not wanted. At the same time, the rapporteur also mentions some parties who have wanted this sunset clause in the legislation. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: which parties have pushed this sunset clause into the bill? It is certainly not my view that it was originally the Social Democrat wish to include it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103620	We have listened to the arguments in the consultations with regard to the sunset clause. I have also noticed that the Left has argued for a sunset clause. I think these are sensible arguments, in particular the argument that we have dealt with this bill urgently. In other words, there should be no doubt that I believe it is necessary to deal urgently with the legislative proposal, but there should also be no doubt that I believe that it is generally unwise to deal with legislative proposals urgently. That is why I think it makes sense for us to put in place a sunset clause so that in a year and a half we will have the opportunity to take the discussion again, and hopefully at that time on a more enlightened basis, in the sense that, at that time, some of the cases relating to the legislative proposal may have come to a judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103713	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103714	Yes, and thank you for illuminating it. It's interesting knowledge to have. The second thing I wanted to hear about was all the warriors who are already here and who were also mentioned by the previous rapporteurs, Mrs Krarup and Mr Krarup. Morten Messerskommentar ^ who doesn't have this double citizenship, but has a single citizenship. Some of them have also already come back to Denmark. Does the Social Democratic Party and the rapporteur not also believe that they should have withdrawn their Danish citizenship and thrown out of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103749	As I have said before: if there are Syrian warriors who have returned to Denmark, then we must do everything we can to ensure that those people do not pose a threat to Danish society. This is a task for the police intelligence service and for the courts. This is a task that we take extremely seriously because we know that these people can pose an increased safety risk. But it is also the case that we have agreed to international rules which we support and which mean that we do not deprive people of their citizenship if that means they become stateless. That is a principle that we hold to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103823	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no more brief remarks, and then we go on in the course of our speeches to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023103842	Today we are discussing the urgency of a legislative proposal which makes it possible to deny foreign fighters with dual nationality their Danish citizenship. This can be done administratively and while they are still away abroad, for example. because they fight for the Islamic State of Syria. The bill arises from an agreement that the former Left-led government entered into with the Danish People's Party in the spring, but which we were never able to make law. It's happening now. Against this background, it may not come as the big surprise that the Left basically welcomes the bill. However, we are also in favour because we are in an extraordinary situation. While we are discussing this bill, there are several Danish foreign fighters abroad in Syria, Iraq. These people have turned their backs on Denmark. They have fought for, for example. Islamic State, one of the worst terrorist gangs the world has ever seen. They have basically fought against everything Denmark and the Danes stand for. And with the current situation in northern Syria, we run the risk of the foreign fighters who were otherwise trapped in Kurdish prison camps being released, and then with their Danish passports in their back pockets they would be able to travel quietly through Europe and end up here in Denmark. Under no circumstances can we allow that, and we cannot, because these people are deadly. This is not some theoretical threat or some theoretical exercise, because we know that Western foreign fighters constitute a real and concrete terrorist threat to Europe and to Denmark, and that is why we must do everything we can within the principles of the rule of law to keep these people away from our country. They simply should not set foot on Danish soil. That is why we must also ensure that when they are to be deprived of their citizenship, they must not first go to Denmark and thus pose a security risk, no, of course, the withdrawal must take place in a way that will make them exactly where they are, that is, far away from Denmark. But, because there is always one, there has to be a balance, and that is why the Left wants two amendments to the bill. First of all, it is important that when we put a hard fight against any of the world's worst terrorists, we must also be able to face ourselves and we must ensure that legal certainty is in order and that the rule of law is not put out of business. Because it is precisely in situations like this that we have to prove that we are better than these people that we hold the tab high and ensure the rule of law. For that is why we in the Left are pleased that the draft law provides that if you are dissatisfied with the authorities' assessment, you can bring the matter to the courts within four weeks. On the other hand, however, we are not quite sure whether the wordings in the draft law guarantee real access and not merely theoretical access to trial, and we therefore want to find a model for ensuring that we have real access to justice in committee. It could, for example, be done. by way of derogation, as the Association of Judges points out in their reply to the hearing. Secondly, we believe that when the Danish Parliament urgently deals with a legislative proposal, the legislative proposals must be subject to a sunset clause, and they must, because urgent legislative proposals are, by their very nature, being implemented in haste, and we owe a thorough and proper treatment to them. That is why we in the Left propose that we include a sunset clause, so that Parliament should re-examine the bill before the end of the next parliamentary assembly. So to sum up: The Left supports the basic bill, which stems from an agreement we made before the summer holidays. We do this because these foreign fighters do not belong in Denmark and because we have an obligation to do everything we can to ensure that they do not enter Danish soil. At the same time, however, we want two changes: a sunset clause and a guarantee of a real opportunity to have its case brought before a court. So with those words and with the two proposals for improvements, the Left will be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104335	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104337	Thank you, sir. President, and to Mr. Morten Dahlin congratulations on the debut on the platform. I am very pleased with the words about the sunset clause, but some sense comes in. Having said that, however, I miss Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech, because I think that if she had been in the Confederal Group of the Left, this would hardly have gone through. Because these are fine words that come about the rule of law, which must be defended by liberals, of course, should always do so, but that is more than just the basic law. After all, it is also the Code of Procedure which it took three commissions 70 years to get through in 1919, when it went from the Inquisitoric principle to the Accusatory principle, i.e. the Inquisitoric principle, where the judge is simultaneously a prosecutor, to the Accusatory principle, where there is always a judge in the middle and there is then a party on the one hand and a party on the other. The prosecutor must always be objective, but the defender does not necessarily have to. That is the cornerstone of our rule of law. Mr. Morten Dahlin, that it here maintains the accusatory principle of law in our Code of Procedure, that the Minister is authorised in relation to accusation and conviction?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104457	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104458	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, and thank you for your congratulations. As far as Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech is concerned: we have many former members of parliament in the Left, some are missing, some are a little less missing, but thank you for reminding us all of Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbech. I believe that this bill remains within all principles relating to the rule of law and to the division of powers. However, we in the Left have concerns about access to a court of law subsequently, i.e. whether genuine access is guaranteed or merely theoretical, and we have therefore read with interest some of the objections which, among other things, have been raised. The Court of Justice has come along and we look forward to finding in committee a concrete model for how we can ensure real access to a trial before a court, perhaps by way of derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104552	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104553	Then I can say that it is Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech who is inside me, because I am trained by her when it comes to the rule of law in this country, and I can still hear her, and I am 100% sure that she would never have agreed to this cultural decay of the law that we are experiencing in this treatment today. So let me ask you about the whole practical implementation. Why is it that it is believed to be able to handle a very large group and to put them behind bars if they break the law, while the small group, which has dual citizenship, believes that they cannot be dealt with and therefore must be deprived of citizenship? Why don't you tackle through?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104637	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104638	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. This is, of course, about us wanting to deprive those who have dual citizenship of their Danish nationality, and that is because it is not possible to deprive one of one citizenship of a nationality if he becomes stateless. Therefore, in this very serious situation, where, right now, in the Middle East, there are people with a Danish passport who have joined some of the worst terrorist organisations in the world, we must do what we can, within the principles of the rule of law, and I think we have found that balance in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104710	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104712	Thank you, and above all congratulations to a Brøndbyfan with a debut on the platform, and I would like to begin by welcoming the active support for the sunset clause, which, among other things, has been the case. was something that Morten Østergaard and Søren Gade wrote a few years ago in a speech was a good principle in connection with urgent procedure. But I'm sure the toast speeches will stop for me as well. Because I would like to ask the rapporteur, as a representative of a so-called liberal party, where freedoms and so on. I think it is a good thing that this draft law is designed to take citizenship from people without violating Articles 12 and 13 of the Penal Code, without fulfilling a description of the crime contained therein, without violating the content of the criminal code: how does it seem to create legal certainty that it is not possible to see directly in the law what it is necessary for you to be deprived of your citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104821	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard for his congratulations, and thank you for mentioning the Brøndbyernes Sports Association, for which we share a passion. Thank you, too, for mentioning that Mr. Søren Gade and Mr. Morten Østergaard, before the election in a chronicle, wrote that urgent legislation should be based on a sunset clause. That is what the Left thought before the elections, and that is what the Left believes after the elections. Because unlike some others, without mentioning names, we are actually concerned that what we say before the elections must also be implemented after the elections. Then the rapporteur asks for legal certainty. It is essential for us as a liberal party to ensure the legal certainty of people, and in cases such as this there will always be a balance between, on the one hand, the need to protect the Danes and the Danish people from some of the worst terrorists in the world and, on the other hand, the principles of the rule of law, for which we must of course stand by. And we believe that we have found a balance here, and if we are dissatisfied with the decision taken by the authorities, we will always be able to bring it before a court if we comply with the deadline set in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104924	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023104926	Thank you. I would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on a rhetorical maiden speech. But if we now turn to the content instead, I would like to hear the rapporteur: the Left regards itself as a law and order party, and with the people we are talking about here it sounds as if their biggest crime is that they have turned their backs on Denmark. That is not Enhedslisten's view. That is not the most serious crime they have committed. These are the crimes they are suspected of having committed down in Syria. There may be war crimes, there may be rape, these are murders, these are quite serious crimes. That is why it should, of course, be the case that when the citizens have Danish citizenship, they must be brought to justice. They have to be convicted of these crimes, if they can be found guilty of them. That is how we see it in a constitutional state. I just have to understand: does the Left really believe that the most serious crime these people have committed is that they have turned their backs on Denmark and that an appropriate punishment is therefore that they are deprived of the dual nationality, that is to say they are deprived of Danish citizenship, but that they do not, moreover, want them to be tried and convicted for the crimes they potentially may have committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105039	Thank you for your question, and thank you again for your congratulations. In the Left, we very much welcome the fact that, as a country, we can help those countries that are in the vicinity to prosecute them locally where the crimes have been committed. However, I have to point out to the rapporteur and to the Enhedslisten that these are people who have committed some of the worst crimes you can possibly imagine, indeed some crimes that we will probably not even be able to imagine. At the same time, they represent a real security risk for Denmark, and if we therefore have the opportunity to ensure that these people never enter Danish soil while we uphold the principles of the rule of law, then we in the Left believe that we have an obligation to do so, because we do not really want these people to come back to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105131	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105133	I just need to get it right. Now that we agree that these are very serious crimes, it must be crucial to have those people convicted and punished for those crimes. With what is being proposed here, we do not ensure that there will be any kind of punishment. We just make sure they don't get the opportunity to retain their Danish citizenship. There's nothing being done to prosecute these people. Nothing is being done to take them home, even if they are Danish citizens, to bring them to justice and to judge them. Nothing is being done to help local authorities run a fair trial down there. Nothing's gonna be done. It seems that the most serious crime is not the quite incomprehensible serious crimes they are suspected of having committed down there; it is, as the rapporteur says, that they have turned their backs on Denmark and that this is what the Left is most concerned with punishing them for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105216	Then it's the rapporteur, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105218	We in the Left want Denmark to help countries get those people prosecuted locally. If Enhedslisten has good ideas about how to do it, we are always happy to listen. But the crucial thing for the Left here is that these people do not come back to Danish soil because they represent a real security threat for Denmark and for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105242	And then I'm gonna have to fix a mistake. I didn't get to give Mr. Kristian Hegaard has the opportunity to ask his second question. It was a mistake, but now it's possible. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105250	Thank you. In his earlier reply, the rapporteur spoke of a so-called balance. There I would like to ask where this balance is when you can be subjected to something as intrusive as being deprived of your citizenship for a crime content that is not even provided for in the criminal code. What is the balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105313	Thank you for that follow-up question. Well, the balance here is that Denmark has an interest in securing itself in relation to these people who have travelled down to some areas where they have joined some of the worst terrorist organisations around the world and which pose a real security risk. On the one hand, we want to keep them away from Denmark. On the other hand, we also want to uphold the principles of the rule of law. And that is why, if they are unhappy with the decision of the authorities, they also have the opportunity to bring their case before a court of law. And we want to ensure that it is real access and not just theoretical access.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105347	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105349	Thank you very much for that and congratulations on the first speech on the platform. I would like to begin by congratulating the Left and also the rapporteur. For under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was very, very busy in saying that all these conventions were above the Danes' safety and security, but now it seems as if you are going in and voting for a bill that several experts have been out to say is actually contrary to these conventions. So I'd really like to start by signing for that. What I'm wondering a little bit is this sunset clause. I saw here not so long ago, as many others probably did, a picture of the new President of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, together with Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Morten Østergaard with matching roller collars. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether this roller collar alliance and this sunset clause in a proposal that was originally the Left is something that will shape the Left's policy on foreigners in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105450	Thank you, Mrs Mette Thiesen, for your question, and thank you again for your congratulations. I think it is essential to state first of all that this proposal does not conflict with any of Denmark's international obligations. The Crown lawyers in the Ministry of Justice have made that clear, and we lean on them, so there is no question that this is contrary to any international obligations. Mrs Mette Thiesen then mentions the sunset clause, and Mrs Mette Thiesen also mentions the President of the Left. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen's new-found love for turtleneck sweaters. In this context, I would like to make it clear that I believe that a majority in the Left Parliament group would rather see Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen continues his present style with very nice ties than to go over to the roller collars. However, in relation to the sunset clause, it was a principle that the Left described before the elections that when making urgent legislation, the Folketing should have an opportunity to give it full legal treatment and look again at matters with the proper time, and what the Left says before the elections, we also mean after the elections. So it should not be a surprise to Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105553	Mette Thiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105554	I would still like to welcome the fact that it may be that the Left has come to its senses, that they place the security and security of the Danes above international conventions. At least that's what we're doing in New Citizens. Now, sir. Morten Dahlin has often been out saying that he is on the tighter wing, and that is at least the impression given by an article in Berlingske that he is a tighter. So now Mr. Mr. Morten Dahlin is making a great deal of sense of the fact that it is not an alliance with the Radical Left in the field of foreigners that is wanted in the Left, I would like to ask him a very specific question: when it is that New Citizens quite soon activate section 42 of the Constitution with regard to these relaxations that have taken place in the field of foreigners, Mr. Morten Dahlin then confirm that he will sign that this is going to be a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105651	To answer the first, I need to correct a misunderstanding with the rapporteur. This is not about an alien political alliance with the Radical Left. This is about a matter of principle for the Left, that is, when you deal with a bill urgently and that is, no matter what it is about, we think that a sunset clause should be built in, so that on a later occasion the Folketing will have the opportunity to spend all the time needed to look through the bill. And now I have 4 seconds left, so the answer to the last question will be brief: No.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105724	It was a fine observance of time. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105729	After all, it is deeply revealing to hear the socialists ask rhetorically: is not the most serious crime these people have committed, in fact, just that they have turned their backs on Denmark? I do not believe that we can commit any more serious crime than to turn our backs on our country and thereby turn away from the entire historical heritage, the entire popular reality of which we have become part, even by the approval of a majority in the Folketing. Is Mr. Morten Dahlin does not agree that it is probably the most serious crime one can commit as a Dane, that is to say to turn his back on the entire historical, popular, cultural community, which is Denmark? Having said that, I have heard Mr. Morten Dahlin say that these people should never set foot on Danish soil again. It sounds so anointingly fine, but it completely collides with the idea that these rules then at some given time should not apply anymore. When is the sun going down, so to speak, so that these criminals, these traitors, can return with Danish citizenship anyway? I do not understand why these rules should be repealed at some given time at the discretion of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105836	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for the question. I'm gonna share sir. Morten Messerschmidt's amazement at Enhedslisten's seeming trivialisation of the crime of turning his back on his country. By the way, I share Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's view that treason is then one of the worst crimes, if not the worst that can be committed. The question of the sunset clause is about a principle that we believe that, as Parliament, we owe it to the people to spend the necessary amount of time reviewing legislative proposals. That is why we want to see a proposal adopted in haste, as this does; and there is a good reason why it makes us have to look at the legislation again. We have proposed that the sunset be put in, so that the Folketing at the end of the next session will re-examine the bill. The position of the Left will, of course, be exactly the same as it has been this time, namely that we are of course in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105932	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023105933	One can almost get the idea that there are some of the colleagues over here who are a little too closely connected with people who have, in fact, turned their backs on Denmark at an earlier stage. It could be what's behind it when you take that kind of thing lightly. But peace be with it, of course their consciences must decide that. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that when this sunset clause comes into force, the Left does not rule out the fact that the law should continue to apply again, so that it is not the case that the law should lapse. This is a renewed debate so that it can also apply afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110004	That is, of course, the starting point of the Left, and I was also trying to make that clear in my reply to Mrs Mette Thiesen, namely that this is about a principle that we have dealt with this time and again as a matter of urgency. In this way, the Folketing has not had the time to review the entire legislative mill, and we believe that the legislative mill is actually a very important part of our democracy and our people's rule. That is why we want this bill to go through that legislative mill before the end of the next parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110032	The next question is Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110036	As a number of colleagues have now done, I would also like to wish Mr. Morten Dahlin congratulations on the election and the debut. I've known mr. Morten Dahlin for many years, and I am very pleased about that. For Morten Dahlin, that this time it succeeded in getting its hands on one of the Left's mandates. I will start with a constructive question. Sir. Morten Dahlin spent a lot of time talking about this with real access to court. I listened to that, for I would like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin to elaborate on what the Left thinks is the problem with what lies in the bill and what the Left is proposing instead. I think that sounds interesting, and at first sight it is something we would like to support in the work of the committee that will come later today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110131	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg, and thank you for your congratulations. The second time's my lucky day, others need three times. I only need two, so I can be happy about that myself. Well, one of the things we may be worried about at the moment about access to justice is that there may be certain situations where one can have a good enough explanation that one has not been able to be informed that one has been denied citizenship within the four weeks. Therefore, a possibility could be to build some kind of exemption access to this four-week period. And in that case, we would also like to see that exemption not be granted administratively, but be determined by the courts, i.e. whether you should have access to this possibility of exemption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110217	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110218	That makes sense. I can already say that we would like to support that amendment. Then I have a more critical question. It beats me in sir. Morten Dahlin's speech that Mr. Morten Dahlin says several times that these people shouldn't come to Denmark at all. I would like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin, if not Left and Mr. Morten Dahlin agrees that many of these people will still come to Denmark, for example. to try their case if they want to. And that is why the most important thing, if we want to avoid these people coming to Denmark and committing terror, is that we have some good intelligence services and police. But this law itself does not prevent people from coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110303	I'm one hundred percent in agreement with sir. Andreas Steenberg in saying that it is essential that we have a good police force, that we have a good intelligence service. That is why I am also sorry that the government, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg acts as a support party for, has chosen to postpone negotiations on a police settlement. We would have liked that to be done quickly. But no, it is not true that he or she necessarily has to go to Denmark to try his or her case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110330	The next question is Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110334	Thank you to the rapporteur and congratulations on your debut. It's not very long since I stood up there for the first time it's a good feeling. Back to the proposal: should we see the support of the Left for the proposal as an indication that the Minister is better at assessing and deciding whether a person should lose his Danish passport than the courts are?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110359	Thank you to the rapporteur for that question. I can answer it very simply and say that no, it is not an expression of our view that the Minister is better than the courts. This is an expression of the fact that we are in a situation where there are some people who can turn their nose against Denmark and pose a security risk to the Danes and Denmark. That is why it is important for us to be able to deprive them of their citizenship quickly and effectively. That's what the bill's up to. And you could be tempted to ask a question the other way, although you probably shouldn't, and ask whether the alternative isn't at all worried that these people should go to Denmark. These are some of the most dangerous people in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110439	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110440	We are very much aware of this, and we will discuss this in our rapporteur's speech. I have a follow-up question: why is it so reasonable for a minister to be able to judge a person without any criminal evidence of a crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110456	The reason why this bill and the agreement we made before the summer break are important is that some people have committed some of the worst crimes in the world. They have joined some of the worst terrorist gangs in the world, while they have Danish passports and have the opportunity to enter Danish soil and pose a security risk for the Danes and for Denmark. We want to minimise that security risk, which is why we made that agreement, and that is why we are supporting the two amendments I mentioned before the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110528	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110532	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that he managed to make the Left appear more concerned with legal certainty than with social democracy. That's great. In addition, however, I would like to take as a starting point the wording used by the rapporteur that these evil people should stay as far away from Denmark as possible. And I would like to ask the rapporteur: Danes who have been killed by the Islamic State have most of them been killed in Denmark or far away from Denmark, abroad? Where have most Danes been killed by the Islamic State, by terrorists, in Denmark or abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110624	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard for the question, and thank you for the congratulations. I really appreciate that. Before answering the question, I have to wonder a little; a little like that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt was wondering earlier, so this relativization of these people. The rapporteur says evil people with their hands above their heads. It is then the rapporteur asks where there is most loss of Danish life in relation to the Islamic State. I am not aware of whether some of the Danes who have been killed on international missions have been killed by the Islamic State, so I simply have no opportunity to reply to that. However, I note that it is probably the rapporteur's party that is currently taking the lead in the Folketing in the fight for soldiers to be sent to the Middle East in connection with the situation of the Kurds.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110718	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110719	But perhaps you should learn a little about where Danish citizens are being killed. They are very much being killed abroad. That's why it's being soft on crime and ridiculously lazy to want to keep people away from Denmark if the result is that they don't have to prosecute. These evil people, and I mean these evil people, must be prosecuted if they are not shot on the battlefield by someone who can fix that part of the case. It's been the Kurds. If they do not, they must be prosecuted because they are a threat in Denmark and abroad, not only against foreign citizens, but also against Danish citizens who are on holiday abroad, for example. in Sri Lanka. Perhaps the rapporteur should consider this rather than take a purely emotional approach to it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110810	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, and thank you for the accusation that I am the one who is emotionally affected right now. I think I'd say the reverse was true. The rapporteur did not ask me where most Danes had been killed. The rapporteur asked me where the most Danes of the Islamic State had been killed. And there I said, I don't know. The rapporteur can tell us afterwards exactly how many Danes have been killed by the Islamic State abroad. I do not think this proposal is happy, I think it is exactly the opposite. It is resolute and it increases safety in Denmark. We are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110843	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110846	Thank you, and I would also like to congratulate Mr. Morten Dahlin with the first speech. Now, in the course of the debate, there has been a great deal of motive research into why Enhedslisten is so angry about this proposal that we are. I shall then try to clarify this a little for the rapporteur, because my question to the rapporteur is: where does the rapporteur think best to learn to be a terrorist? Where does the rapporteur think there is the best chance of committing an act of terrorism? Is it when you are with violent people with war experience or if you are in a Danish prison after a trial?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023110933	Thank you, Mrs Lund, and also thank you for your congratulations. I really appreciate that. Now the rapporteur mentions that motive research is being carried out. I don't think I've done motive research. In fact, I think we politicians should stay too good for that. I am actually convinced that Mrs Rosa Lund supports the legislation that Mrs Rosa Lund believes is best for Denmark. I hope that the left will take the same view when it comes to some of the rest of us. I support the legislation that I think is best for Denmark, just as I am convinced that Mrs Lund does. And I sincerely believe that we could raise the political debate to a higher level if we all took that view. To the question of where best to learn terror, I have to answer in principle and say that our task as Parliament in Denmark is to look after Denmark's interests and take care of Denmark's security. And I am convinced that this proposal increases safety in Denmark and minimises the risk of some of the world's most dangerous people coming here. And I think that's good for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111031	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111032	Thank you for your answer. It increases safety, says Mr. Morten Dahlin. Sir. Morten Dahlin also mentioned in his speech and in an earlier reply that these crimes that have been committed are very serious and that it is people who have turned their backs on Denmark. These are war crimes, these are murders, these are rapes, all sorts of horrible crimes that we agree on are absolutely terrible. After all, citizenship is a set of rights that you get. So I really would like to ask Mr. Morten Dahlin, whether there are others in Denmark who have committed terrible crimes that must have deprived their citizenship. It could, for example, be done. be the submarine food or other people who have committed horribly serious murders, who must have deprived their Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111114	Without having an in-depth knowledge of the Uboat food case, I am convinced that he only has Danish citizenship and will therefore be stateless if we deprive him of Danish citizenship. And in relation to some of the previous questions from Mrs Rosa Lund's party colleagues about respect for international conventions, my best bet would be that it would be contrary to Denmark's international conventions if we were to take away his citizenship from Uitsmadsen. So I don't think that Enhedslisten can support that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111147	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111151	Thank you. Sir. Morten Dahlin recently agreed with my colleague, Mr Dahlin. Morten Messerschmidt states that the worst crime you can commit is to turn your back on your country, to become a traitor. I appreciate that, sir. Morten Dahlin means. But why is it only a crime against which we must protect Denmark if we have dual citizenship? Why is it okay to commit treason, to be a foreign warrior if you have only one citizenship? Why is it, if I may say so, that it is the UN Red Cross Convention because it is after all the case that the Left does not want to deal with cases where only one citizenship has to judge the danger of being a foreign warrior or possessing one or two citizenships?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111251	Thank you to Mrs Krarup for her question. I think I will have to start by correcting a misunderstanding or making the position of the Left crystal clear if I have not done so in the past, and I apologise for that. Mrs Krarup asks why it is okay to have committed any of these crimes if you only have Danish citizenship. And the position of the Left is not that it's okay to have committed these crimes if you only have Danish citizenship. We still think these people are some of the worst terrorists in the world. That is why we want to prosecute them and, hopefully, judge them, like a long and harsh sentence, because we do not think it is okay to have committed these crimes, even if you only have Danish passports.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111336	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111337	I am aware of that, but your arguments are not really consistent. It is said that you will do everything and that you will refrain from citizenship when you have committed these things, that is, when you have fought for the Islamic State, but only in those cases where you have dual citizenship. So it seems very hypocritical to me to say that we are really taking this seriously, because we are only going to use this emergency mechanism, which is incorporated into the law we are talking about today, in cases where the person meets certain technical conditions, but has therefore done the same things as those who have one citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111422	Thank you again for the question, I would like to say to Mrs Krarup. And I shall immediately regret if the rapporteur finds my speech and the position of the Left hypocritical. Of course I don't do that myself. However, the reason why we cannot take citizenship from people who have only one citizenship is that they would then become stateless, and we must not do so in relation to the international agreements that we ourselves signed, and those are the targets of the Left. There's nothing new about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111448	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions at this stage. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series. This is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111507	Thank you for the floor. Of course, we should not accept that foreign fighters can return to Denmark. People who have fought for the Islamic State are not welcome in Denmark anymore. They're dangerous. They pose a risk to Denmark and Danes. That is why it is, of course, timely care to formulate a bill and a law that can take citizenship away from them. This is, of course, also a proposal that we will support, and we also believe that in the current circumstances it is justified to deal urgently with the legislative proposal. As we have seen from the questions that we in the Danish People's Party have put in this Chamber during the debate, we believe that it is a problem that the law is directed only at those who have dual citizenship. For those who do not have dual citizenship and who have been foreign warriors, the same could be a danger to Denmark and Danish society. We therefore believe that it is necessary to look at the possibility of depriving all foreign fighters of their citizenship. We can see that a number of possibilities have already been opened up in the law, namely that if the person concerned is facing a realistic opportunity to obtain a different citizenship, then in those cases the Danish citizenship will also be condemned. This is already open to it in the law, and we want that opportunity to be opened up further, and that is why we will be tabling an amendment to the effect that we should also be able to take citizenship from foreign fighters who have only one citizenship. It simply cannot be that it should be the UN's stateless convention that ultimately determines who can come to Denmark, i.e. which of the foreign fighters pose a threat and who does not pose a threat to Denmark and the Danes. That is absurd thinking, because it is of course up to us to decide who should be able to enter. But in general we support the bill in the Danish People's Party, of course, because it is a mechanism to defend us against these foreign fighters, who can so much pose a risk to all of us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111805	Thank you to the rapporteur. The first question is Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111811	Thank you. I agree with Mrs Krarup on the use of the security argument. In other words, if you use the security argument here, it is a huge contradiction to say that you cannot deal with the small group with dual citizenship, but that you can handle the large group with the individual citizenship. So on the basis of a security argument, it is a contradiction that comes from the government, if you buy that paragraph I do not, I must stress. Mrs. Marie Krarup needs that much. There's something I'd like to hear about. We saw during the autumn vacation that the Danish People's Party believed that it was the Committee on the Rights of the Nation that should decide on the roll-back of citizenship, and not the Minister. Is this a proposal for which we are still on the mark? That is the first question. The second is: can Mrs Marie Krarup confirm that there was already an agreement under the previous government between the government and the Danish People's Party that this bill should be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023111912	First of all, we believe that it is the safety argument that is most important in this case. So there we disagree with the Radical Left on what should be at the top of the agenda. So that's why we think this mechanism is justified. There was an agreement before the elections, but exactly how it was drafted, I will not be able to go into detail because I was not the rapporteur at the time. In relation to the Committee on Bodily Rights, we can say yes to this mechanism. We think it is sensible and well thought out. There are some areas in which we would like to see a greater role to be played by the Committee on the Rights of the Child, but it would be in some limited areas of nationality withdrawal in cases where citizenship has been granted by law and where it is within a certain period of time. So there are some places where we believe that it would be justified to play the Committee on the Rights of the Child on the field. But in these cases, we believe that this mechanism is the fastest and the most effective.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112027	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112028	Thank you for confirming that, even before the elections, there was some sort of agreement that something like this should be done here. It is interesting to see that we are suddenly called in the middle of the autumn recess that something has to be dealt with urgently. I think that is quite interesting information. So I'm glad about that. What I understood, sir. Peter Skaarup in the Newspaper and now I don't have the newspaper here, so I quote so freely after memory is that it is too much power to give the minister. Does the Danish People's Party believe that it is too much power to give the Minister, or does the Danish People's Party not think that it is too much power to give the Minister, in terms of being able to make the decisive decision for the individual?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112118	We believe that this mechanism is a fine mechanism. It's okay to give the Minister that power. However, in a number of other areas, which are also linked to the condemnation of citizenship, we would like to see the Committee on the Rights of the Child also be given the opportunity to play a role, because it is a legislative matter to give citizenship, and so, in some cases, it may also be a legislative decision to withdraw it. But it is in some specific areas that we believe that it should be carried out in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112155	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112158	Thank you. According to this draft law, you can understand that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think it is quite fine that this should not be a matter for the courts. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur if there are any other places where the rapporteur thinks that Danish courts are in relation to where they are today making decisions for citizens. Is there anywhere else where the rapporteur thinks this could be a very good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112236	I do not think I can think of that, nor do I think that this need be included in today's debate. This is a very special situation in which we have some people who have committed treason outside the country's borders and where we do not want them to return to the country. We think that they have thereby lost their citizenship, and we are pleased that a mechanism is being created so that they cannot show up in Denmark. We just think it's sad that it doesn't include all those who have committed these crimes. But if you can think of other crimes committed outside the country that resemble treason, I don't know. That may be possible, but that is not what we need to legislate for. We must legislate on what we have to deal with today. So I don't think it's worth spending time thinking about all sorts of weird hypothetical situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112336	Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112338	What is special about this is that, by judgment, citizenship can already be deprived of citizenship if you commit a violation of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code. What you do change is that you can do it through an administrative estimate. That is what is special in this situation, and it is for that reason that one can be curious whether there are other cases where the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party think that the Danish courts are putting their noses a little too far ahead in some cases. Is there anywhere else where the rapporteur thinks that we should compromise a little more on the decisions of the courts today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112415	What is crucial is that these crimes have happened outside the country. That is what matters and that we do not want them to enter the country. So that's what this is all about. It is a question of depriving them of the opportunity to come to Denmark, and we defend Denmark by doing so here. That is the key point in the legislative proposal from our point of view. So the thing about trying to make up all sorts of hypothetical situations doesn't make any sense. What we are talking about is defending Denmark and the Danish territory against those people being able to come back here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112457	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112501	Thank you. Now I understand from Mrs Krarup that the most important issue is the issue of security. I agree with that. So I should just like to hear: how on earth do we benefit the security situation both for Danish citizens in this country, but also for Danish citizens abroad, by saying that we let people who have committed very, very serious crimes, that is, war crimes and crimes against humanity, or who are at least suspected of it, avoid being brought before a judge, they just get their Danish citizenship taken away, and then they have to run around as they please, they have to do exactly as they want, they should not be brought to justice, they should not be subsequently imprisoned? How on earth does it benefit both the security of Danish citizens and the world as such? How does the security situation improve by just allowing people who have committed major and serious crimes to run around when we know that we have a responsibility for them because they are Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112605	We would very much like these people to be convicted and imprisoned abroad. We see no reason why they should enter Danish territory and represent a risk factor for the rest of us. Thus, of course, we defend Danish citizens and Denmark against the foreign warriors who would be able to commit evil deeds in Denmark. So it is, of course, an increase in Denmark's security, which this proposal is aimed at and which it will also ensure to a greater extent. But there is the problem of the fact that it only goes for the small group of people who have dual citizenship. So it does not increase Denmark's security to such an extent as we would wish it could do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112653	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112654	I simply do not understand that. Because what we're doing with this bill is we're preventing them from getting a trial. What would be the right thing to do, after all, was to ensure that we had these citizens taken home to Denmark and brought them before a court so that they could be punished fairly because they are Danish citizens, and that is why we have an obligation, just as other countries have obligations for their citizens when they are abroad. That is how the world is connected, and that is why we should lift our obligations and protect Danish citizens, both here and abroad, but also other citizens against people who have committed serious crimes against humanity or who are suspected of it, i.e. war crimes, rape and everything else. I simply do not understand how the Danish People's Party can be of the opinion that we strengthen security by saying that they are just allowed to run around as long as they do not come here to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112741	As Danish legislators we are responsible for Denmark, so our first and most important task is of course to ensure safety and security in Denmark. Besides, it's great if these people can be convicted and locked up abroad. We would very much like to support that in every way. But what is our most important task is to make sure that they cannot enter and create havoc and uncertainty and insecurity and commit crimes in Denmark. This is what this bill is aiming for, and I do not understand that one can be so globalistic in one's head that one cannot distinguish between Denmark and other countries or the Danes and humanity. It is Denmark and the Danes who are our task.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112832	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112836	Thank you for your speech, rapporteur. The safety argument is the most important; they are dangerous and they pose a risk, says the rapporteur. So I have to understand this very clearly: does the rapporteur think that foreign fighters, terrorists, criminals, whom we have locked up in Denmark, pose a less risk than terrorists and foreign fighters who run freely around the world and can plan terror against the kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023112920	If a foreign warrior comes back to Denmark and commits terror against the Danish people, against Denmark, it is something that we will not accept. We want them not to be able to return to Danish territory and harm Denmark and Danish citizens in Denmark. This is the security argument, and what is our task as Danish politicians is to protect Denmark. We would very much like them to be convicted abroad that would be very fine but it is not our job to secure legal systems around the world. What is our task is to secure Denmark; and this is about a little the same as what the colleague from Enhedslisten came with just before. There is a specific task that we have to do, and that is what this bill is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113029	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113031	The rapporteur is quite right in saying that we cannot secure trial in other countries in the world. But we can guarantee a trial in Denmark. Is it not so much more effective in terms of security that we take responsibility for our Danish citizens, arrange for a trial and put them in prison than to have them running around in the big world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113100	Well, we don't want them to set foot on Danish soil, and we don't see any reason for that at all. They must be kept away from Denmark. They should not be given the opportunity to commit crimes in Denmark. So we think it's timely care and common sense to implement this proposal and avoid them coming to Denmark, instead of having all sorts of weird theoretical discussions about where the safety of some theoretical humanity is highest or lowest. We do not want
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113145	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113148	Thank you. I do not think the rapporteur is answering Peder Hvelplund's question. This isn't theoretical. We had a person in Denmark named Basil Hassan. He tried to murder a Danish writer, journalist Lars Hedegaard. Then he fled to Turkey there he was imprisoned. What did the Islamist regime, the Erdogan regime, do in Turkey? They handed him over to the Islamic State, where he sat in Raqqa planning attacks on an Australian plane and on various places in Europe. If he had been in Denmark, he would have been imprisoned; then he would have been in prison for a long time. But the fact that he was in Turkey, or the fact that he was outside Denmark and did not come into our custody, meant that he was involved in planning an incredible number of terrorist actions. How many of them have been completed, we do not know. Isn't this about the Danes' safety?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113243	It does not necessarily do that, but what it is about for us here is to avoid them coming to Denmark. That is simply what is absolutely essential for us. We do not think that one can maintain one's Danish citizenship when one has committed treason and fought for the Islamic State. Then you should not be able to return to Denmark and pose a safety risk. And one can only lament the fact that other countries do not have legal systems where they are able to put people in safe places and for long enough time to avoid that in other ways else they can pose a security risk. But we must take responsibility for Denmark. That is our task, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113323	I would just like to remind you that one should be aware of the need to take up quite specific individual issues in the debate in the Parliamentary Assembly. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113334	Yeah, I'm sure I can't do that, because it's a perfectly well-known case. Everybody knows. And by the way, I think it is absurd to hear what is being put forward by individual cases in this Parliament about people receiving social assistance, and what do I know? But I just want to say that it is the position of the Danish People's Party that is totally theoretical. It was pleased that the person concerned was not detained in Denmark and went to prison in Denmark. If he had been in Sweden, he would certainly not have been extradited. The result is that he has planned terrorist actions that have cost people their lives. That is the practical result of the policy being implemented. We do not want to be a part of this. We want to get as many as possible killed on the battlefield if they fight, or if they do not fight on the battlefield, get them locked up and beat.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113428	I disagree with the questioner that Denmark is some kind of theoretical construction. Denmark is quite, quite specific, and what it is about is that people who pose a threat to Denmark should not be able to enter Denmark. That is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur in this round and we move on to the next in the rapporteur's series. It's sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113458	To begin with, I need to make it clear that, of course, I believe that all parties here in the Danish Parliament would like to avoid terrorism happening here in Denmark or in other countries. It is therefore also necessary to make it clear that, contrary to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has just said, this bill does not mean that these people cannot come to Denmark. The bill here is about taking citizenship away from them, but they will still be able to come to Denmark. The comments even say that some of them will be able to stay. So this is more an expression of the wish to send the signal that they are undesirable in Denmark, as is also stated in the draft law. If we are to avoid terrorism, it is good police work, good intelligence work, good international cooperation to collect evidence between countries, a common police cooperation and a common intelligence cooperation between countries, which must ensure and ensure security here in Denmark; it is not a law to deprive citizenship, because if we are to avoid terrorism, it does not matter what citizenship people have. But we must ensure that people are captured before they commit terrorism and then, of course, are convicted. The Radical Left supports the idea that you can take citizenship away from people if they commit terrorism or treason. It is the penal code chapters 12 and 13. We can also support the fact that you can run a process that takes away citizenship without the person having to be in Denmark. That is what is called in absentia. But the crucial difference, which is what we are discussing today, is whether it should be the Minister or a court that makes that decision. We think it should be a court of law. We believe that this is a fundamental principle of the rule of law and democracy, namely that if you want to punish someone, whatever it is for, the authorities must collect evidence and run a case in a court of law, and then they can be convicted in a court of law. We think that this should also be the case in these cases, and that is why we are going to table an amendment calling for the process to be conducted in a court of law so that he or she can have his or her case tried there. Let's see if this goes through. At least some parties will support it. But I can at least say that if that amendment does not go through, we do not intend to support this bill at third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113751	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a question from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113757	Thank you. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech, and I am very much in agreement with him. Andreas Steenberg. When I take the floor, it is actually more because I am a little surprised why the radical group did not vote against the urgency procedure as a whole when we had the vote earlier on it. Because, as the rapporteur himself outlines here, we are dealing with an area of great risk, and in the consultation answers we have seen it is also pointed out, both by the National Defence Attorneys Association and the Institute of Human Rights and many other consultative parties, that it is a very dubious process, that we have to deal with such a bill urgently and, above all, when it comes to something as fundamental as the principles of the rule of law that we are talking about here, and that is what we need to do. So I would just like to know what the considerations underlying that vote are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113846	There is the thought that we were told by the government last week, when some of these prisons were opened up, that there would be a concrete threat that some of those people would move towards Denmark and that the government would take some initiatives. That was the background we had to say yes to urgent procedure, that is to say that there was simply an emergency situation in northern Syria which made the government want to act. And the deal we've made with the government, we stand firm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113923	Sir. Peder Hvelplund? No, there is no wish for any other brief comment. There's one more questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023113930	In this context, I would just like to hear whether it is not surprising that the radical rapporteur has been here for a long time and that there have been plenty of opportunities to deal with it and that the issue of Islamists on the battlefield is not entirely related to those camps, but everyone knows that a number of Islamic state warriors have gone underground in Rojava, where they have carried out terrorist acts, or they have fled to Iraq, from where they can get through to Denmark. That is why we may be talking about an increased threat, but the threat has existed for a long time, and it is therefore an extreme lack of due diligence that we have not taken it up long ago if we thought it was so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114025	Well, I am surprised, and I am particularly surprised, that the previous government, which had an agreement with the Danish People's Party, did not get the law passed. Søren Søndergaard asks their rapporteur. None of us in this Chamber has access to the various intelligence provided to the government in its Security Committee and given to the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice. We were told last week that there was a concrete assessment by the Ministry of Justice that some of these people might be looking for Denmark. And it must be a new information and a new situation or else it doesn't make sense for the government to address us with that request.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114108	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114110	Thank you for your reply, but this may give rise to something that we need to examine in committee. Because if it is the case that prior to the current situation in Syria there have been no warnings that some of the Islamic State warriors could come to Iraq and go up in Europe or through other places, Turkey, for example, come to Europe, then it is very, very serious; if there have not been reports of it, then it is a very, very serious matter, so there is no need to be a great expert to know that. But that is something we can discuss in committee, and I hope the Radicals will help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114148	Indeed, I have already asked a few questions in this respect, and then the committee secretary told me that Enhedslisten has asked some questions similar to them. So at least we agree that we need clarification in committee this afternoon.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114202	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114204	What is most important for the Radical Left? Is it Denmark's security, or is it that syriansterrorists get a good process?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114221	I do not think that the two things are mutually exclusive. I know it's the excitement or the line of communication you're trying to set up. I believe that the most important thing for Denmark's security is that these people are caught and that the police and intelligence services around the world are doing their job. I think that is definitely the most important thing. And then, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that, if these people have committed terrorism, we must, of course, be able to take citizenship away from them. It just has to be done in a court of law. I think it is quite easy to do that, while protecting Denmark and thinking about safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114301	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114302	How does the Radical Left view the possibility of conducting trials on what has happened in a war zone in Syria? What are the possibilities for calling witnesses to report on what has been going on down there? Is there, in the opinion of the Radical Left, a good opportunity to pursue this kind of lawsuits subsequently, or perhaps if there is a certain amount, should we call it a process risk if we are to speak radically, so that we may not be able to prove very much of what has happened down there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114330	Honestly, I don't know, because I haven't seen the cases. Nor do I sit on the Security Committee or the Control Committee where I can see the cases. But we have asked a number of questions about what kind of evidence the Minister needs to see in order to make this decision, because I assume that it is not just at will that we should be able to withdraw citizenship. I would assume that some evidence will have to be presented before citizenship is taken away, whether it is in court or with a minister. And if you have the evidence, you should also run a trial of it, otherwise everything will end, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114409	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wanted to put questions to the rapporteur in this round. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and I welcome Halime Oguz from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114432	Thank you and thank the Minister for making the proposal. We are dealing here with a group of people who have originally expressed their desire to become part of Denmark. They have signed up to respect values such as democracy and freedom. We often discuss in the foreign debate what really needs to be done before we have shown that these values have been turned away. However, there is hardly one person in this Chamber who would deny that the killings, rapes and slavery that the IS has been responsible for are good examples. When you have even fought against a coalition among others. of Denmark, one has clearly demonstrated that one does not want to be a part of Denmark. If these people come to Denmark, they constitute a very clear terrorist threat. These are highly trained warriors who, without blinking their eyes, can lead any knife to their throats. I understand that they will not return to Denmark. That is why I also agree with the director of the independent think tank Justitia, Jacob Mchangama, when he says that although the legislative proposal here is very far-reaching, he also believes that the threat is real, concrete and imminent and that this very far-reaching intervention can therefore be defended. But no matter what the cause is and no matter how good the reasons we have for it, we should not lads quite basic legal principles in our attempts to defend the same. And in this respect, the draft law presents a number of challenges, as the consultation answers also point out. Despite the urgent threat to Denmark, SF cannot therefore support the bill in its present form. And I am actually sorry, because there should be no doubt that I despise the people who have fought for the Islamic State, and the SF would like to help protect Denmark from the threat they represent. If I and the SF are to reconsider our position on the proposal, it requires that the draft law, without a shadow of doubt, complies with Denmark's international obligations and probably goes to the limit of what the rule of law can contain but does not exceed it. Specifically, the SF gives priority to three amendments to this bill. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has introduced a so-called sunset clause. But there are still two missing. Firstly, the SF wants the bill to clarify that it is not intended to hit relief workers, journalists or Denmark's allies, including, of course, Kurds. Secondly, the SF wants the possibility of judicial review that exists in the proposal to be more than just an illusion to imagine that you can sit in a prison camp and log into your e-Boks seems absurd. The SF therefore wants judicial review to be done automatically, or at least to extend the deadline for bringing the case to the city court significantly. Here I have to acknowledge that the Minister has complied slightly with the wishes of the Association of Judges with the introduction of the concept of excruciating reasons in the draft law. But it's just in SF's eyes a very small corner of the Court's real point that has been met. The SF cannot therefore support the proposal in its present form, but it is not due to a lack of will. We therefore hope that the final legislative proposal will extend to the final paragraph that we are asking for and that we will ultimately be able to give it our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114819	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114824	Thanks to the rapporteur for the first speech in this Chamber, the rapporteur did a very good job. I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly. The amendments that the SF will be tabling are about automatic judicial review, but that does not change the fact that the Minister is given the power to withdraw the citizenship administratively • that is right understood • but then it does not change the basic discourse, compared to how the legal perception is normally that it is a court that has the right to do so, i.e. in relation to the division of power. That's why I'm a little surprised that SF can go down that road. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that. I would also like to hear from the rapporteur about something else. SF had previously been promoted with a proposal that the withdrawal of citizenship should take place on the Committee of Insights, i.e. be located in the Folketing. Is it still the view of the SF that it would be better for the decision to be there rather than for it to be with the Minister? For it will still basically be a break with the division of power.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023114935	Thank you for the questions, and thank you for the congratulations. In relation to the first question, whether or not we support the fact that it is a minister who must withdraw citizenship, I would say that we support this in this particular situation, because it is a very serious concrete threat that we face, and a minister is, after all, the head of the entire administration. We also see other cases in which the administration takes decisions, for example. in the form of forced arrests, so I see nothing wrong with it. If, at the same time, you have the opportunity to try your case before a court and even get a lawyer appointed, I do not see how it can be so much contrary to our rule of law. In relation to the second question, whether it should be the Committee on Bodily Rights to decide that matter, Mr. Jacob Mark probably said a little imprecise, I'd say. We do not believe that it is up to the committee to decide, because when it is a minister who makes that decision, it is also the case, according to the law of ministerial responsibility, that he can be held responsible for what he is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115054	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115055	But that is contrary to a Danish rule of law tradition, because it means that the Minister is given the power to take court-like decisions. After all, we have to look at chapter 12 and chapter 13 of the criminal code, and these are decisions based on it. And it is sometimes on a basis that is not known to the Minister. Then there is the whole process of the special lawyers who get attached and with whom you cannot communicate directly. We are in the process of tampering with something basic there, so I am surprised that the SF can support that part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115131	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115132	Now I am not a lawyer, but I would like to say that I note that the Ministry of Justice does not consider this to be the case, and I also note that the independent think tank Justitia believes that the intervention is proportional, so I do not see the big problem in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115150	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115152	I would also like to congratulate you on your debut speech. And I would like to say that I fully agree with the SF rapporteur on the contempt for the Islamic State. That is why I and Enhedslisten are so concerned that they will not be able to continue their atrocities, here or elsewhere. I would therefore just like to ask the SF's rapporteur whether she does not agree with me that there is a less risk for both Danes and everyone else that people of this type are in prison in Denmark than that they are walking freely around Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115231	I would like to point out that these are people with dual citizenship. This means that they have opted for Danish citizenship and retained their original citizenship. And they have fought against Denmark and Denmark's interests, so they have actually dealt with their own case automatically. That's one thing. Another thing is that I would like to ask Enhedslisten something: How do you intend to collect evidence and witnesses against these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115308	I would like to say to the rapporteur that it is not possible to use direct indictments. It's just a clarification. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard to another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115320	I would like to say to the speaker that this question will be able to be asked in a moment when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur comes to the floor; then that question can be asked over and over again. So I would urge the rapporteur to do so. But I don't really think that was an answer to my question. Does the SF rapporteur agree with me that it is safer for the Danes, in Denmark and abroad, that Islamic State terrorists are in prison in Denmark than that they are walking freely around Iraq, Syria or Turkey and can come to Denmark relatively simply?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115400	No, I do not agree with the rapporteur, because these people cannot be prosecuted in Denmark when they have committed their crimes abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115419	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115424	Thank you for a good speech, both in terms of form and content, and congratulations on the debut from the Parliament's platform. In the Liberal Alliance, we will be pleased with as broad an agreement as possible, and that is one of the reasons why I thought the speech was so good, because it basically recognises the purpose of this law. But SF also has some requirements in order to be able to participate, and there it is the case that I represent the leading expertise in Denmark in relation to ultimate requirements. Therefore, my question is whether the requirements are ultimate or whether there is an opportunity to negotiate a compromise with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115519	I think you're thinking about the part where we would like it to be brought to court automatically. It is ultimate in the sense that either it automatically comes to court, or the period of derogation should be significantly extended. In this way, we are also open to that model.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115548	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115549	It is not so much a question I have here, but just a very friendly and constructive remark that ultimate demands and self-harming business can be very difficult to distinguish from each other, so be careful with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115613	The next person who has wanted to ask a question is Mr. Jens Rohde, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115616	Thank you, and congratulations on the debut from Parliament's platform. I must say that it must be a rather special matter to be debutante because it is exceptionally difficult. When we stand and have a discussion about this, it is not for the sake of the Syrian warriors, but it is for the sake of all of us and our legal principles, which are not just written in section 3 of the Constitution on the division of power, but in our law on justice, which took 70 years and 3 commissions to get the fight home. There the left has always stood on the accusatory principle of law and not on the Inquisitorian principle, and so I have to ask the SF what it is that in this case justifies us moving to the Inquisitoric principle of law, where the judge and prosecutor are one and the same person.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115718-2	In fact, what justifies us going that way has also been mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. This is a very exceptional situation, and it is an imminent threat that is directed at Denmark. That is why we support the bill to the extent that we can get our demands through, which states that these people must have the opportunity to test their case in court.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115753	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115755	Does this mean that the SF invokes emergency law in the specific case? And what is it that makes SF suddenly rely on that one can now make submissions of e.g. judgments solely on the basis of information provided by the intelligence services? Let me just point out that at the time I was involved in taking a rather far-reaching decision with the VK government on the basis of information provided by intelligence services, which turned out not to hold water.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115832	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115836	I have no reason to doubt PET's work or research. Then I would say that studies show that foreign fighters who have been in Syria and fought for the Islamic State pose a greater threat than those who have been down there. That's one thing, and another thing is that 12%. of the terrorist acts committed in Denmark have actually been committed by foreign fighters. So the threat is very serious and that is why we would like to agree to the legislative proposal to the extent that we can get our demands through.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115926	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023115929	Thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and congratulations on the debut on the parliamentary platform. As one of the experienced in that discipline, I can say that I think the rapporteur did quite well. The rapporteur mentions that one of the SF's demands is this one, with a Morten Olsen expression, automaticism to be done in relation to the case being brought before a court of law. Will the rapporteur not acknowledge that with the concession shown by the government to grant a derogation for the four weeks, the need for this automaticism is being reduced, and that is why SF's demands in this respect could be dropped, and the SF could then, together with some of us, vote in favour of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120021	Thank you for your question and thank you for your praise. What I would like to say in relation to this derogation and excuse, which has then been extended a little bit, is that I and the SF are in favour of it being done properly and that it is not just some symbolic policy, but that we are actually complying with the requirements of law and that it is important that these people, although I despise them, also have the opportunity to appeal and test their case in a court of law; that is what is involved in our having a democracy and such a well-functioning society, namely that we also give the people we despise the opportunity to appeal and have their case tested in court.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120109	In the Left, we fully agree with the rapporteur that it should not just be symbolic policy, but that access to trial before a court should be real and not merely theoretical. That is also why the proposal states that it is up to the court to decide whether or not a derogation can be granted. It is not administrative. Would the rapporteur not recognise that, when there is a derogation granted by the courts and not administratively, you are actually beyond the issue of which the SF is concerned, you have real access to have your case tried before a court?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120147	Well, what we're concerned about isn't whether a judge should decide one thing or the other. What we are concerned about is that there must be an opportunity to appeal and to test your case, and then it is the judge's decision whether or not to grant a waiver. But there must be an opportunity to test your case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120216	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120219	Thank you. I think it is wonderful that the SF has embarked on a course in which it is more recognised that there are threats to Denmark and that we need to take measures to reduce those threats. And it is good that the SF believes that foreign fighters are some of those against whom we must defend ourselves, but why are they only foreign fighters with dual nationality? What about all the foreign fighters with single citizenship? Are they not a danger to Denmark and do not the SF want to make sure that they do not come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120258	Thank you for the question. I think that we in the SF have always been quite balanced in relation to these problems. With regard to people with a single nationality, who are Danes, I would say that we simply cannot deprive them of citizenship because it is a breach of international conventions. We can't make people stateless.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120331	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120332	Well, that's the answer that everyone's going through, and I'm saying fairs, because it's some kind of magic spell or some kind of ritual. They say hokus pokus filiokus, or whatever else you can come up with of distorted Catholic rhymes that have been used in the past and that, like that, we cannot deal with it at all. But that can't be right. It is simply not true that those people do not pose a danger to Denmark, because they do, and it cannot be that the United Nations should be some kind of Holy See which can decide who is a threat to Denmark and who is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120417	Thank you! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120418	Now I do not recall saying that I do not believe that they pose a threat, but unlike the Danish People's Party, we believe that international cooperation is binding and we do not believe that we serve Denmark's interests by being a desert island. So I would also like to say to Mrs Marie Krarup that there are, in fact, some of these warriors with ethnic Danish backgrounds where should they be sent?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120453	Then the next brief remark from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120456	I'd like to start by signing for SF to support this bill here. That's good. And it is also good as a kind of lac mu test, one might say, to illustrate how the radical party and the socialists view the matter here. One might almost say that the Radical Left never misses an opportunity to stand on the side of the Islamists, and it is a good thing to get confirmation from such a debate as we have here today. However, I would like to follow up on what Mrs Krarup asked the rapporteur about: the level of threat. So, we agree with the Socialist People's Party, I understand, that these foreign fighters pose a threat to Denmark, and that is why we must use all the means to ensure that they do not come to Denmark to do atrocities or otherwise harm our country. But then I would just like to ask Mrs Halime Oguz to explain whether the foreign fighters, who happen to have only Danish citizenship, pose a less threat than the group of foreign fighters that the Socialist People's Party is willing to deprive Danish citizenship. Is there a difference in the level of threat between the two groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120601	Very briefly, no, there isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120607	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120609	So that is how far we agree again. What then makes the difference as to whether one can deprive Danish citizenship is not whether it is dangerous for Denmark; it is alone whether the UN declaration on the loss of citizenship must be above or under Danish law, i.e. whether it is more important than securing the Danes who move around the city's streets against Islamic terrorism or attacks, or what these crazy people might do. Can Mrs Halime Oguz then explain why an old UN convention is more important than consideration for the security of citizens in their own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120648	That's because this law guarantees us all against attacks by the state. That's one thing. The second is that in SF we also have no interest in actively bringing these people home. We would like them to stay where they are and to be persecuted and convicted where they are. But it is not only foreign fighters with a different ethnic background, it is also Danes. What does the questioner intend to do about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120726	Thank you. For good reasons, the questioner cannot answer that question. The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120740	Thank you for the floor. I did not really plan it because I think what the rapporteur is saying is extremely confusing. You compare this way of making an administrative decision with, for example, forced custody of children... you also want their case automatically to go to court? It's not quite clear to be completely honest. That's one thing. The second point is that, for example, the rapporteur has attacked me in the past to take the wrong fights, and now the rapporteur is in favour of someone whom everyone in this Chamber calls people, but they are not people, they are scum.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120829	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I do not know whether the terms used by Mrs Mette Thiesen right now can be used on the parliamentary platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120851	Thank you. There is a follow-up remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120853	Nothing was answered at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120900	Well, I didn't quite understand your question, because you started by saying that this is being compared to when you're forcibly removing children. It was just to explain why a minister could act in this matter. I think that is OK, to the extent that it actually complies with the principles of the rule of law, which it does according to the judgements of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120928	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023120942	Thank you for that, President. Serious crimes, including terrorist acts and war crimes, must be punished. The suspects must be found and brought to justice, where they must have a fair trial, and if they are found guilty, they must be put in prison. All this is something we have good conditions for in Denmark, where we have an effective police force, a good legal system and secure prisons. In recent years we have seen that people, including Danish citizens, have joined the so-called Islamic State and have, by all accounts, committed unimaginable crimes in Syria and Iraq. After a series of defeats on the war scene, there are some of these people who have ended up in Kurdish captivity. The Kurdish autonomous authorities in northern Syria asked the European governments, including the Danish government, to take their own citizens home for prosecution, as well as the Danish government very often argues that other countries should accept their own citizens. To prosecute, judge and punish Danish citizens in Denmark would clearly have been the best thing if the concern was to secure the outside world against the radicalised and violent foreign fighters. Because, in a conflicting region where the Kurdish authorities have limited resources, there was a great risk, as has been shown in the past, that there was no guarantee in the long run that prosecutions were carried out and that the guilty parties were kept locked up. The former and present Danish governments chose, in line with other European governments, to stick their heads in the sand under the motto: Out of sight, out of mind. It was left to the weak structures of Kurdish self-government to deal with the problem, knowing that an international criminal court in the Syrian-Iraqic region even has very long prospects. Now the worst case scenario has happened. Erdogan's mighty army has invaded the Kurdish territory of Syria, and the first IS prisoners have escaped from the Kurdish prisons and camps. If anyone hopes that Turkey will be able to ensure effective and fair prosecution of the IS warriors, they can of course consider what happened to the man suspected by the Danish authorities of behind the attempted murder of Lars Hedegaard in 2013. As you know, the Turkish authorities released him the following year, even though they had apprehended him. Erdogan's invasion has led the Danish government to act quickly not as it should by making sure that we get the Danish foreign fighters home for effective prosecution within the rule of law and subsequent serving in safe Danish prisons, but by sticking its head even further into the bush with this piece of urgent legislation on administrative disqualification of citizenship. Out of sight, out of mind. The bill here does not make the world or Denmark a safer place to live. On the other hand, it undermines the Danish rule of law. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration must be administratively able to dissuade suspects of their nationality, and in some cases the basis of the disqualification will be so secret that even the Minister himself does not know about it. Taking the citizenship of a person is self-evidently very intrusive. And now it has to be implemented administratively with very thin access to justice in practice, and the proposal must be implemented through the Folketing in an expedited procedure in a matter of days, which in itself is a problem. The Enhedslisten will not allow the Minister to take the nationality of suspects administratively and without prior judicial review. We cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121326	There are some brief comments. The first one's for sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121333	I heard the rapporteur say earlier that the turning away from Denmark is not something that the Enhedslisten is particularly serious about, that is, that there may be other crimes that are much worse. And I really think it would be interesting to have the rapporteur elaborate on that. In the Danish People's Party we see Denmark as the centre of our entire lives and of our political activities. That is what we stand up for in the morning, and that is the last thing we think about when we go to bed at night: what kind of country do we pass on to the next generation? But I understand that for Enhedslisten there are quite other considerations; there is the point of turning your back on your country, your people, to turn your back on everything that is Denmark as such, not something that means the big thing. That's why I would just like to follow the logic that Mr. Peder Hvelplund, in his previous contribution to the debate here, asked: what is actually the worst crime, Mr. Peder Hvelplund and Enhedslisten can imagine that a Dane can commit?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121429	Those are some interesting considerations, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is doing himself here, because one might ask what is the biggest crime here: Is it turning your back on Denmark, or is it carrying out war crimes, crimes against humanity, slaughtering, torturing, abusing people? If we now, no matter what we assume there is the worst crime, imagine how we punish people who both turn their backs on Denmark and Morten Messerschmidt's solution to say: In connection with this type of crime, where you turn your back on Denmark and where you commit all these crimes against humanity and criminal acts, yes, there is the worst punishment he can imagine, that is, the fair punishment, that we deprive them of citizenship. And then they can run around and do whatever they want and continue the practice they have had up to now. We do not have that view in the Enhedslisten. There we believe that if you commit illegal acts, you must be punished and imprisoned for them. That, I understand, is an opinion, sir. Morten Messerschmidt does not share; he believes that if we just take the citizenship away from them, they can act as they please and do as they usually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121536	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121538	We didn't get much answers from that. Well, I guess there's got to be some major board meeting where you can sit and cause a little further on what the biggest crime Enhedslisten can imagine being. Let me ask you a question. When Enhedslisten believes that these people can go home, be punished and put in prison and thereby be resocialised and become good Danish democratically-minded citizens who can really take part in civil society in the cool way, I would just like to ask: what is the experience of that, Mr. Peder Hvelplund? If we look at the people who are in prison and there are quite a lot of people who have, what can one say, some kind of affinity in the same direction as these people, in the Danish prisons, experience is then that they come out as really well-socialized Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121617	So, now it is the case that in the Enhedslisten we do not prefer court proceedings to be carried out in this Chamber; we prefer it to be conducted in the courts. I can hear that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is of the opinion that we can stand and make a conviction here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I would just like to say, in relation to the experience, that it is true that our prison system still has many wishes in terms of being able to ensure better rehabilitation, but we just have to note that, as the Danish People's Party points out, if people are in prison, they do not commit crimes at the same time. And the criminal who committed the assassination of Lars Hedegaard, we can see that we had had the opportunity to imprison, and that he would not have had the opportunity at the same time to commit criminal acts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121703	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121706	The rapporteur mentions that this bill does not improve the security situation in Denmark. However, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that if we continue with the policy that Enhedslisten seems to want to bring these people to Denmark, punish them, put them in prison and then release them back into society, with the history that we have, how hard it is to get them to leave Denmark afterwards, then it will thus increase the security risk for Denmark to have these people walking around on Danish soil? Does the rapporteur accept this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121744	No, I really don't. I do not recognise that we are reducing safety on that basis. We can just take the examples that have been in relation to Danish citizens who have lost their lives in IS terrorist actions. So there are others who have been killed. More people have been killed in Bali. There are several people who have been killed in Sri Therefore, the answer must of course be that if we have people who go around making terrorism wherever it is in the world, they must be tried and they must be judged and they must be imprisoned. And now it is the case that, when it is Danish citizens who do so, yes, it is the responsibility of the Danish state that these citizens are judged, punished and imprisoned. The world will only be a safer place if it is the case that we ensure that the people who commit illegal acts are brought before a court where they are given a fair trial and subsequently punished. That is what we are building the rule of law on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121838	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121840	I have to say that I am deeply shocked by the rapporteur's reply, which is why I think I am going to ask again to make sure that I have understood it quite correctly. Is it the position of Enhedslisten that it is not
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121905	Then I can reply to the rapporteur again that if the rapporteur goes back and looks at the history, he can see where most Danish citizens have lost their lives. This is the case in terrorist acts in Bali and Sri Lanka, where IS terrorist actions have also taken place. There are several Danish citizens who have been killed there. And there we have to say that if it is the case that we have to ensure greater security for Danish citizens both in Denmark, abroad and for citizens at all, then it is all about the fact that if people commit illegal acts, they must be brought to justice. And when it comes to Danish citizens, there is a special obligation on the Danish state, because then it is up to us to ensure that they are punished and judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121943	Thank you. And the next for a brief comment is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023121947	Could the reason why there are Danes who have been killed in terrorist actions abroad be that there have been more terrorist actions abroad than there have been in Denmark and that there may be more terrorists from the Islamic State abroad than there are in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122003	Yes, it certainly could. I don't have to know why it's like that. I can only say that when acts of terrorism occur, the way to combat it is to bring people to justice. They are given a fair trial, and they are subsequently convicted and punished. It is, whether it is in Denmark or where it is. When it is citizens with Danish citizenship, a special obligation is incumbent on the Danish State to ensure that they receive a trial in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122032	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122033	Good. So, of course, there is an increased risk of terrorism if you have terrorists in Denmark. The Enhedslisten then thinks they should be prosecuted and put in prison in Denmark. How does Enhedslisten view the possibilities of doing so? So, Enhedslisten believes that there will be really good opportunities to catch up with witnesses who can explain in detail what has happened in Syria so that the individual can be held accountable for it, or will Enhedslisten recognise that the result of that policy will be that they are allowed to enter Denmark in contrast to if we take their citizenship away from them where they end up on cash benefits, paid by the Danish taxpayers, until some of them one day commit terrorist acts in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122107	Indeed, we can see that what we are dealing with today is a consequence of the practice of both the previous and present governments, namely that we would not, if we wanted something in relation to this here and also in relation to being able to deprive citizens of citizenship, indeed, it was necessary to come down and obtain evidence. Whether this is to take place in a court of law or whether it is to be administrative within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration, there has to be some kind of evidence that this is fair. The difference is just whether it should take place in court or whether it is administrative. But the Danish state could now choose to say: now we go down and collect information from the Kurdish authorities. And you should have done that a long time ago if you wanted to punish these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122151	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122154	Thank you. There should be no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party will do everything we can to ensure that these people stay outside Denmark's borders. We want to do this in a way, of course, so that we take into account what makes Denmark Denmark Denmark our rule of law, so I understand the rapporteur's desire to protect those principles. I simply do not understand that the rapporteur does not take Danes' safety more seriously. I don't understand Enhedslisten's desire to work so isn't it a much more optimal situation if these people are convicted in the areas where their crime, both against the locals and against Denmark, has been committed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122241	But it is the case that there is no conviction in those areas and because they are Danish citizens there is a responsibility on the Danish state to do so. And, of course, what is crucial is that we ensure that these people are convicted and that they are tried and punished. And if what is our interest is to protect the interests of citizens and their security, then we must ensure that they receive a judgment in a court of law. Today, it is the case that the citizens we are talking about having to take away citizenship administratively have dual citizenship. It is clear from the bill that they still have the opportunity to travel around, and they also have the opportunity to travel to Denmark. Some of them will also have the opportunity to stay here in Denmark. After all, we do not protect anyone there by saying that we are now not going to prosecute them, that we are just allowing them to walk around. What matters then is that they should be brought before a judge and punished for their actions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122327	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122329	Instead of being so busy with the partout going back to Denmark, having a judgment in Denmark and after ending punishment being in Denmark with the threat it entails, would it not be more sensible to work for them 1) not to come back to Denmark and 2) to be convicted in the near areas where their crimes have been committed? Would it not be much better if we made an effort to ensure that the responsibility for prosecuting these people is exercised in the areas where they are today, so that they do not come back to Denmark but, on the contrary, are convicted locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122404	We can begin by stating that the government has at least done nothing to ensure that they are convicted locally; on the contrary, it has just been left to the Kurdish authorities. Once the Kurdish authorities have requested that we take them back, so that we can prosecute them.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In other words, if our citizens are not our responsibility and we are the ones responsible for judging them, how can we make the same claim to other countries, namely that they should prosecute their citizens? It is quite natural that this should be the responsibility of the Danish State, which is why we must, of course, ensure that Danish citizens are prosecuted in Denmark and that they are thus guaranteed a fair trial and a judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122452	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122455	Yeah, at the risk of asking a co-op question like that, but it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh... Rasmus Jarlov, who gets me up. For Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's problem is how to find evidence in the world. I would then like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur from other rapporteurs from the Parliamentary Chair has not heard almost all of this morning that one sentence after another is that they are the meanest people in the world who have, and then one has to ask where the evidence of that is. Have we heard any of them? I would like to ask the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122537	No, but I can agree completely, and that is also what I was trying to answer, Mr President. Rasmus Jarlov. The difference here is that the evidence will have to be passed through a court of law in order to test the validity of the evidence, where what you do here is also to obtain evidence, is that you just leave it up to an administrative decision, and sometimes it is even unknown to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, with what background you make the decision. But it is clear that no matter what, proof must be obtained. There must be some reason for depriving anyone of citizenship, whether it is in court or administrative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122613	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Peder Hvelplund. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122647	Rights in Denmark apply to Danes, they do not apply to Denmark's enemies. The Conservative People's Party does not sit in the Folketing to defend the interests of Denmark's enemies and give them rights in our country. We sit here to look after Denmark's interests. We're talking about Islamic State. It is a movement that commits genocide, mass rapes and attempts to eradicate cultures and peoples............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a movement that keeps women as sex slaves, knocking them through sometimes to death unless they are willing to be raped by their so-called holy warriors. And not least, it is a movement with which Denmark is at war. And when you go down to fight for them, you renounce all rights in Denmark. It's treason, and then you shouldn't come crawling like a dog afterwards and ask for protection in Denmark. To go out and play great cannon to fight Denmark and come back as a beggar and claim rights in Denmark • no thanks. I hear the defenders of the rights of the Syrian terrorists in Denmark in this Chamber claiming that we should instead take legal action against them in Denmark. That would be completely impossible. There will be no witnesses and proof of what the individual has done in Syria. The result will not be that they will be in a Danish prison; the result will be that they will walk freely around Denmark on cash benefits paid by the Danish taxpayers until they commit terrorism in Denmark one day or another and kill some of us. We do not want them in Denmark; they must stay down in the Middle East; they have chosen Denmark from. Due to the very rapid process, we have not managed to reverse all the arguments for some of the amendments that have been put into question. It is, in fact, somewhat unclear to me right now how many amendments are being tabled by the other parties. We would like to see an overview of this. I expect, however, that we can support a sunset clause in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122924	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first one is for Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023122928	Thank you. I have to say that it is a bit of a strawman that the rapporteur allows himself to make from the speaking chair of the Folketing. I have not heard anyone defending the Syrian warriors here in the Danish Parliament today. I have heard someone defending the Danish rule of law, and so I thought that the Conservative People's Party, as a party of law and order, stood for this, but it is obviously a very selective interpretation of the rule of law that is held in the Conservative People's Party. Peace be to it. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, if he agrees with the former Foreign Minister and former chairman of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Per Stig Møller, in that it is a very, very great power given to a minister and that one cannot expect and demand from a minister that the Minister should act objectively, as the Minister is a politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123023	I have not heard Per Stig Møller say the latter, but I agree that it is of course a great task and a great power to give to a minister that he can deprive people with dual citizenship of their Danish citizenship. And it is also sometimes necessary to equip ministers with a great deal of power in order to solve important tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123048	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123050	So I have to ask: what exactly does the Conservative People's Party mean by this bill prevents those concerned from coming to Denmark? What exactly does this bill provide with added value for the Danish population in terms of security?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123120	It is that they are deprived of their Danish citizenship and hence their rights in Denmark. This, of course, also makes it easier to keep them out of Denmark, and that is what we want to do with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123131	Thank you. The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123136	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Conservative People's Party will support the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party that these provisions of L 38 should apply to people with dual citizenship and people with single citizenship. In the Danish People's Party we believe that they are equally dangerous, and if you want to protect Denmark, you must ensure that both groups are kept outside Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123209	Well, there was hardly anything I would rather do than keep them out of Denmark, which we have mistakenly given Danish citizenship. It is not our view that it is possible that we can do so by the Danish Parliament otherwise we would like to do so. I think it gives rise to some reflection on who we are granting citizenship, when you can see that there are some here who certainly should not have had it, but who have got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123239	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123240	I think it's sad. There was a time when Conservatives stood for God, King and Fatherland... today they stand for a UN Convention on Human Rights. I can only mourn that the Conservative People's Party does not take Denmark and Denmark's security more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123257	I would remind you that we are not calling on the higher powers in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123303	In other words, the myth that Conservatives should once have stood for something other than what we stand for today, I very often hear from people who have no knowledge of the party history of the Conservative People's Party, so I think Mrs Marie Krarup should read that out a little. We have always been in favour of complying with the agreements we have concluded, and this also applies, of course, to concluding agreements with other countries. But there is also a great deal of room for manoeuvre within the agreements we have concluded, and we therefore believe, among other things, that we should grant citizenship and residence permits to far, far fewer people, because we have let too many people into our country who should not be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123345	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123350	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I think it was a rather strange comment made by the rapporteur, namely that there should be supporters of Syrians in this Chamber. In fact, I think that is deeply irresponsible in such a serious debate as we have here today. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is that the rapporteur said that criminal proceedings did not make sense, it did not make sense with the courts, because proof of this kind could not be found in Syria, etc. Then I would like to know whether this also means that criminal proceedings in Denmark, where there is no evidence of prosecution in the courts, must be administrative discretion, if that is the reasoning behind the Conservatives' position on why this should be an administrative judgement and not treated by the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123442	I would like to be quoted correctly for what I said. I did not say that there were supporters of Syrian warriors here in the Folketing. I said that some people were very busy defending the rights of the Syrian warriors. I have to say that I find it very difficult to see things differently when you see people here who are fighting hard for the Syrian warriors to go through a process that guarantees their legal certainty to a greater extent. I find it very difficult to interpret it in any other way than that there are some here who are very busy defending the rights of the Syrian warriors. That is what parties in this Chamber are doing right now. I am more concerned about defending Denmark's security, it must admit, and Denmark's interests. In other words, we are of course in favour of legal certainty in legal proceedings in Denmark. But I also have to put it that way, and I also said this very clearly in my speech that if you are a Dane, you have the rights you have in Denmark. You don't have rights to a process, a residence permit and to come up here and be dragged through a trial if you are Denmark's enemy. So you put yourself in a different situation where you do not have the rights of Danish citizens and Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123549	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123551	I would say that no one is busy defending certain people. What some people are busy with is defending a system that we have in Denmark, namely the rule of law. That is what today's debate is about, and I would therefore like to ask whether the rapporteur does not find it strange that, even if it happens in a different place from Denmark, it is a criminal offence, but if it is a course of action that is suitable to harm Denmark's vital interests, which are very similar to violations of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, then it must be done with administrative discretion. Why this difference? Why can we not just have a rule of law and have legal proceedings in all cases relating to the withdrawal of citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123635	Well, I think it's so one-sided. After all, this is not a discussion club in Radical Youth, where you have to sit and discuss law. This is about balancing some different interests with each other. This confusion about how to get the best possible legal process for all sorts of people who are not entitled to any rights in Denmark, I simply find it too difficult to understand that you are not thinking more about Denmark's interests and about Denmark's security. Not just that you don't think about it anymore, but if you could just think about it a little bit and then weigh the two things to each other. I mean, I don't understand the Radicals here and what they are defending when they are so busy defending the rights of the Syrian warriors.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123714	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123716	Well, then, I would like to make it clear to the rapporteur that what we are defending is not the rights of the Syrian warriors, but the basic principles of the Danish rule of law. They're the ones we're defending. I would just like to say with certainty that if it is a question of defending Denmark's security, we can see that, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov speaks for, is that these suspected Syrian or foreign fighters can walk freely as long as they do not do it in Denmark; then they must do exactly what they want, so they should not be brought to justice. We are calling for them to be brought before a court of law. That was just the two things I wanted to clarify. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur about the matter of collecting evidence, because I simply do not quite understand what the rapporteur said in his speech. I guess so, too, sir. Rasmus Jarlov's view that the practice today requires evidence to be obtained if it is to be established that there has been a violation of Chapter 11 or Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code. I suppose there has to be some kind of evidence, because it isn't just something that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is doing in the blue. We must also ensure that proof is provided that can be guaranteed here. The difference is whether it should be tried or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123828	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123829	There must be proof that they can be deprived of Danish citizenship, not that they can be put in prison. These are two different things. By depriving them of Danish citizenship, we can keep them out of Denmark. If we first have to bring them up here and then have a trial, you may be able to deprive them of Danish citizenship, but the legal position is just different once they are up here, and we want to keep them down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123853	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123855	I just still don't get it right. We want to judge them and punish them for the actions they have committed, but Mr. Rasmus Jarlov doesn't, because he says they just need to be kept out of Denmark. That's one thing. The second point is that it is clear from the bill that there must be a violation of Chapters 11 and 12 of the Criminal Code. It's not like you can just say that we think that might have happened. It is, of course, to compare with a court decision that there must be a breach of Chapters 11 and 12 of the Penal Code before you can use it here. So it is probably the same kind of crime that must have been committed and there must also be the same kind of evidence before one can do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023123931	No, there isn't. The result of depriving them of their citizenship will be that it will be easier to keep them out of Denmark, and that is what we want. The result of what Enhedslisten wants is that you bring them up here, and then we hang on to them, but we have no desire for that. If there's going to be legal proceedings against them, you have to do it down there, and it could be fine if you saw Enhedslisten running some kind of campaign for there to be a war tribunal that could hold someone accountable down there. That would be a good idea. We have no wish that we should bring them up here with the prospect that we will not be able to get them convicted for too much and that they will then be able to walk freely up here and recruit people to commit terror in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124006	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124007	Thank you. Well, then I'll be happy, sir. Rasmus Jarlov states that in the Enhedslisten we are in favour of an international court. In this area, we have just not seen the government rush through any legislative proposal, just as it is rushed through here. I'd like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov: What if you go now to fight against It is already illegal to enter these areas today, and we have also seen legal cases of one nature and another at home in Denmark against people who have gone down to fight against the Islamic State. All I have to do is ask sir. Rasmus Jarlov: Have you turned your back on Denmark if you go to fight side by side with the Kurds against the Islamic State? Because then you will also be included in this bill, at least as we read it in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124101-2	The reason why this bill is being dealt with urgently and we have supported that it was dealt with urgently is that it actually makes a difference whether it is being dealt with now or later. It does not do so in relation to a resolution from the Enhedslisten to create a war tribunal in Syria. So that is probably what is the fundamental difference between why one is dealt with urgently and the other is not. I do not think that you are turning your back on Denmark if you are fighting for the Kurds, and I also think it is important that we perhaps clarify in some way in the draft law that if you fight against Denmark you do so. It also says in the bill that it applies if you go down and fight against Denmark's vital interests at least in the draft that I have seen and I think it is important to stick to that. If you go down to the Middle East and fight for the foreign legion or for the Americans or for Israel or for some others who are allies with Denmark, then of course you do not fight against Denmark's vital interests, and then, in my view, you should not be deprived of your citizenship either. That would be unfair and it would be good to clarify it. I do not think that is the case either, but we would like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124209	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124211	Thank you for your answer. But according to this bill, no matter what the Minister's decision is, which side has been taken. - Sir... Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservative People's Party do not see that it is actually quite a shift of power which is currently being supported here? That is one question. The second question I have to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, is: Don't these people also pose a security risk where they are now? Well, sir. Rasmus Jarlov talks about it as if they are only a security risk if they are in Denmark. They are also a huge security risk for the world and for Denmark where they are now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124248	I have to say that I am most concerned about the security risk in Denmark. I'm sorry, I am. I sit in the Folketing to look after the interests of Denmark and the interests of the Danes. The people who voted for me have not voted for me in order to ensure the security situation in a village in Syria. We are in Denmark's Parliament. I don't know if Enhedslisten knows where they're sitting. And yes, you displace power when you pass a bill. That's what you do with every bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124322	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124327	Thank you very much for that, and thank you for a very good speech. I could understand from the rapporteur that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservative People's Party do not want to support the Danish People's Party's amendment to also take citizenship from those who have left and have joined the Islamic State but who do not have dual citizenship. I just want the rapporteur to confirm that the Conservative People's Party thereby places international conventions above the Danes' safety and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124404	Funny enough not to get me to confirm that. I don't think that surprises Mrs Mette Thiesen either. We believe that this cannot be done. We would like to, but it is our view that this is not possible. It would be desirable if Danish citizens, who have only one nationality, namely their Danish nationality, could also be deprived of their nationality, but that is a rather different situation from depriving Danish citizenship of those who also have a different nationality, that is to say a double nationality. But it's not because we don't want to, because we want to. They do not deserve to have Danish citizenship, but it is not our view that it is possible, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124446	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124447	It is possible, of course, if you want it to be so. That is one thing. As the second point, I should like to ask the rapporteur, who is often referred to as a foreigner, about the same thing that I asked him a moment ago. Morten Dahlin of the Left. When New Citizens now activate section 42 of the Constitution on some of these alien facilitations that the government is doing, and now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says he's a foreigner's trap, sir. Rasmus Jarlov then sign that this will come out, so it will be evaluated by the people, in other words, for a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124525	I haven't seen that proposal yet from New Citizens. We'll take a decision on that when it comes. Generally speaking, we are in favour of representative democracy, in which the Folketing decides what we are doing in here. But I look forward to seeing the proposal from the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124541	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023124603	Thank you for the floor. This bill is not just about punishing a handful of foreign fighters; it is more than anything else about something as essential as democracy, the rule of law and the division of power. In other words, it is about the very pillars of the society that we celebrate and love so much. I do not believe that anyone here today has any sympathy for people who go to war for ISIS or other terrorist organisations and who are violence against democracy. At least we don't do that in the alternative. But if we are to safeguard democracy, and we really do think we should, we must avoid undemocratic solutions. Unfortunately, that is exactly what we fear is happening here, in other words, that undemocratic solutions are being taken. The fact is that with this proposal the government will end the division of power, because that is the consequence here. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will be given a mandate to deprive a person of his citizenship on his own without trial. That alone should make the alarm bells ring from all the members of the House. By opening the door to the individual minister's decision without any guidelines or standards as to which evidence or accusations can justify this, it is quite obvious that the whole idea of the rule of law and the division of powers is being played down. In a rule of law, neither the executive nor the legislature should also be the judiciary, not at all in cases as important as the disqualification of citizenship on the basis of serious accusations of crimes committed. I think it is quite grotesque that we are now in the midst of the stronghold of democracy, where we have such a responsibility to uphold the rule of law and the division of power, and are discussing a proposal which means that one can be exiled and deprived of Danish citizenship without a fair trial, and without necessarily any real evidence before one can judge. Danish citizens who are suspected of a crime must work in such a way as to ensure that the Danish legal system works. Having said that, there is also a fundamental problem in that with this proposal we deliberately avoid prosecuting people who want to hurt Denmark. These are people who plan or have already committed terrorism against vital Danish interests. After all, the bill must ensure that foreign fighters do not come to Denmark and be held accountable. If all countries did the same as Denmark, all foreign fighters would be left in countries like Syria with impunity and free to plan new terrorist acts. How is this a protection of Danish interests? How is it to increase the safety and security of the Danes that there is no control over these people? Wouldn't it be better to make sure they were punished for their misdeeds? Is it not more secure that terrorists are locked up than that we have no idea where they are or what they are doing? Finally, I would like to ask one more question: how does the government intend to act in the reverse situation, where a person with dual citizenship is deprived of his citizenship by another country and expelled to Denmark? That is what we want from others, and will the government also respond to a similar demand from another country where someone is deported to Denmark? That is why the alternative does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125016	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125018	Some of what the rapporteur says surprises me. The rapporteur stands from the floor of the Parliament and claims that there will be no fair trial. How does the rapporteur know that the trial guaranteed in the draft law will not be fair? For the rapporteur is not of the wrong opinion that there is no possibility of bringing his case before a court? Because that's what the bill says.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125046-2	The draft law does not set out any objective criteria on which the Minister will be able to base his decisions. At the same time, it is essential in a constitutional state that everyone has a fair and fair trial. That is to say, if you are accused, you are brought before a judge. Evidence is presented, and then one is judged. That process is taken away from the individual citizen. That process is crucial for our rule of law. We therefore believe that there is no justification for a fair trial if we are not to go through the process that is crucial in a constitutional state.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125136	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125138	The rapporteur also mentions that it would be in Denmark's safety interest to get these people to Denmark. Will the rapporteur not recognise that if you are punished and put in a Danish prison and then you are released on the street and we know how difficult we are to have these people sent out of Denmark then it increases the safety risk in Denmark? It increases the security risk in Denmark to have convicted terrorists walking around on Danish soil.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125205	In the alternative, we are convinced that it increases the threat of increasing potential terrorist acts by allowing terrorists, criminals, to walk freely around the world. In the alternative, we are of the opinion that besides having an international obligation, in addition to being a community governed by the law and acting as a community governed by the law, we increase security, the security of the Danes, by ensuring that terrorists, criminals, murderers are not allowed to run freely around the world, where they can form networks where they can plan terror against the Danes and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125249	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125253	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the alternative really believes that if this scum comes to Denmark and is judged, they will come out again if they are sentenced to expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125310	I didn't understand the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125313	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125317	I ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that, if this scum comes to Denmark, it will be possible to get them out after this trial, which is so important for the rapporteur to have, and moreover, if the rapporteur, if one of these scums is judged for something and pays the penalty and then released, one might say, in Danish society, wants to have the person living at home with himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125348	The rhetoric used by Mrs Mette Thiesen is about the same as we hear from terrorists around us, I would just like to point out. For the alternative, it is crucial that we do not put the legal principles out of action, because if we do so first, the dark men have just won. If, out of fear of the dark men and their ideology, we put the rule of law out of action, we have already lost the fight, the fight against those who want to abolish democracy, the fight against those who do not want our basis of value. It is therefore vital that, even in difficult situations, even in a situation where we all agree in here that we do not like those people, that we do not like their values, that we do not like the crimes they commit, that we do not like our principles. If these people have gone to Syria and turned their backs on the Danish values, it is crucial that we do not turn our backs on the Danish values.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125453	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, did you have any follow-up questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125454	No, I just don't think there was any answer to how the rapporteur, in case this scum comes to Denmark, thinks they're coming out again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125510	What matters here is the rule of law. When it comes to everyone, whether we like it or not, we have a responsibility, as we are a community of law. We have a responsibility in relation to some international obligations. Whether we like it or not, we have to take responsibility. If all the rule of law around the world did what Mrs Mette Thiesen proposes not to accept them, then we would have a lot of terrorists around the world who would plan terror, including against Denmark. The only responsible way to deal with this is to make sure these terrorists are locked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125555	Thank you. We must try to keep to the speaking time. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125601	Thank you. Jørgen Albæk Jensen is a professor of law at Aarhus University, and today he says to Berlingske, and now I quote him: It is quite common that you leave it to an administrative authority to act as a first instance and then have a trial before a court of appeal. It's very common. So it is not contrary to the Constitution in any way. You can read that in Berlingske today. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125644	I note that the hearings that have been held in connection with the legislative proposal are more or less unanimous in saying that this is a serious breach of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125657	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125658	But it must make an impression, or perhaps it does not make a professor of law say that this with an administrative authority in the first instance and judicial review in the second instance is quite common. It is then thought not to be in the alternative. Does this mean that the alternative will table a motion for a resolution that all the ordinary places where we do this today should also be passed over and have courts at first instance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125727	I could then turn it around and ask the rapporteur if it does not make an impression with all the consultation answers that believe that this is completely and completely at odds with the rule of law, all the fuss that has been going on in the public debate, and that professors, all who are specialist experts in the field, are shouting at gunpoint. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125750	It is difficult to answer questions put from the platform by the rapporteur. But the next for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125800	I note that the rapporteur states that the alternative does not want to support the proposal because there are no objective criteria in the proposal on which the courts can judge. I am a little puzzled because it is the rule rather than the exception that we adopt laws, amendments to the criminal code and the like, where there are precisely no objective criteria, but where a considerable discretion is actually left to the courts. In fact, it is true that the courts and legal experts are equally relatively often critical of us if we make objective demands, minimum penalties and the like. For when we do, we take away the potential and influence of the judicial power. So I just need to understand the position of the alternative here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125853	That was one of the reasons why we would not support it. Overall, it is for the alternative to ensure the safety of the Danes, and we do best to prosecute the terrorists, prosecute these foreign fighters and lock them up. Secondly, it is a question of ensuring the rule of law. When a legislative proposal begins to confuse the executive, legislative and judicial powers, we believe that it is appropriate to call out in arms, and when such an important proposal attempts to deal with it urgently, we believe that it is time to shout in arms. So it is a question of the rule of law that must be respected and it is a question of the security of the Danes that means that we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125937	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023125938	I know and disagree with the arguments about legal certainty, and we have discussed this. What I asked was this with the objective criteria. Was it a mistake for the rapporteur to mention it as one of the arguments for not voting in favour, or would it be the case that the alternative would be critical if there were new legislation or proposals for amending legislation if there were no objective criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130002	For us, it is problematic when, for example, there is a problem. on page 11 of the legislative text states that the Minister can take up cases on the basis of people who are addressing, that is, slander, and it may be gossip, rumors. That is what we are talking about, so that there are no objective criteria for what it is that one will judge on what it is that one wants to deprive a Danish citizenship on the basis of. Can any person, a neighbour, then go up and say: My neighbour is a problem for the Danish vital interests? Where's the limit?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130041	Thank you. As stated on the agenda, Question Time begins at 1 p.m. 13.00. I shall therefore interrupt the debate on L 38 now. The debate will resume after Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130053	I have to inform you that Liselott Blixt under No. 21 and 22 raised questions, spm. No. 102 and 103 to the Minister for Health and the Elderly, are deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130109	The first question is to the Minister for Justice and has been asked by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130124	Thank you. Does the Minister continue to believe that it should not be possible for private individuals, including companies intending to trade, to gain access to the bankruptcy register?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130144	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the author for bringing this issue up. The issue of public disclosure was an important issue when the Danish Parliament adopted the rules on bankruptcy cartels back in 2013. It is also a theme in the evaluation of the bankruptcy cartel scheme being carried out by the Ministry of Justice. It is thus clear from the preparatory work to the law that the Ministry of Justice will prepare a report on the bankruptcy quarantine scheme when the scheme has been in force for five years, as it has been now, and send it to the Folketing. The need to adjust the rules is included in the evaluation. I would like to await the evaluation before deciding whether it should be possible for private individuals to gain access to the bankruptcy register. The Ministry of Justice is well in the process of evaluating, and I expect that the statement to the Danish Parliament can be ready within a few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130243	Thank you. Then I'd like to ask you something more. One thing is that we await the comments of the Ministry and other wise heads, but I would like to ask the Minister personally whether he does not think it is a pity for my pizza baker that he should hang an acid smiley on the glass door if there is no control over the hygiene of his business. Isn't that very strange in the Minister's view? At least I think it is. I can then supplement by saying that we have Riber's Credit Information, and it doesn't take much until you go to a public register • DKK 1,000. in debt and then three reminders, and then you're on display to the public there. Is it not as if, under the current system, we are actually keeping our hands on the people who are running grossly irresponsible business to the detriment of potential future trading partners who are not being warned in the appropriate way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130355	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130356	In order to qualify for bankruptcy, it is quite right, as the questioner said, not only to have participated in bankruptcy, but to have been within the last year, to have been part of the management, and to have behaved grossly irresponsible, what is most important. Then you get bankruptcy cartels, namely a ban on taking part in the management of a company. The question then is whether everyone should be able to see it in the register. I'm really going to the open mind thing. There can be both arguments for and against giving public access. And it is true that if you look beyond the legislation at all, there is no structure on which you can say that we always do or we never do. So I'm kind of set on with an open mind... yes, thank you! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130449	Thank you, Minister. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130451	Thank you. It should not be a secret that when I ask the question here, it is also because, in my view, Denmark is on the way to becoming an eldorado for economic fraudsters, and the fact that one has a register in which one can at least warn against those who conduct grossly irresponsible business and do not publish it makes even more room for the people concerned to be able to go out and cheat other creditors. So that should be a good argument for us having a public register.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130525	First of all, I regret that I took so much time. On the other hand, I spent a minute less in the first round. But to return to what was said, I would say that it is a relevant and legitimate consideration to say: should we not all be able to see, when buying services, what kind of party we are dealing with? And it's true that this register is one of those places where you're gonna be able to use that kind of information. So, as I said, I have a very, very open mind about it. We are in the process of making an evaluation, and the evaluation will, of course, go to the Folketing. I think we should have an open discussion with the arguments for and against it in order to conclude on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130608	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130610	It sounds good that the minister goes to it with an open mind. I would then hope that the mind points towards greater publicity in this area. And at the risk of repeating myself, I would like to say that, in the private sector at least, we are seeing that a great many reports of bankruptcy are not being investigated at all by the police in these bankruptcies where fraud has taken place. We see that SEIK could work much better and that financial crime could be investigated much better. We really need to warn against those who are running irresponsible business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130645	There we are so in complete agreement, because I actually think that one of the areas where we need to look at the distribution of resources is whether we have the right legislative tools on the one hand, and the right structures and the right resources to combat this financial crime on the other. For economic crime is in itself problematic, but it also distorts the market and economic structures that we want to have in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130718	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Before the next question, I should like to inform you that those of Morten Dahlin under No. 8 and No 14 questions put to the Minister for Justice shall be answered at the request of the author. We shall now proceed to Question Time. 2 on the agenda, which has been tabled by Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130739	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130744	How important does the Minister consider that the discrepancies between the number of series of numbers, i.e. that the converted data did not match with raw data, may have had for the decisions of the courts?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130801	Thank you for the question. As I have said before, the mistakes of the National Police could potentially have led to the conviction of innocent people and, as such, also that guilty persons have been freed from punishment. It is, of course, the fundamental trust in the rule of law that is at stake, because we must be able to rely on innocent people not to be judged and we must be able to count on those who are guilty not to go free. That is also why the matter is serious. The authorities are examining the specific legal cases which have been affected by the teledata case, and this is to ensure that the public can have full confidence in the legal system. And to ensure that there can be full confidence in the review, I have, of course, set up an independent control and steering group to manage and control the name of the authorities' case review. In the first place, it is up to the authorities under the control of the independent control and control group to assess whether deficiencies or errors in telecommunications data have been relevant in specific cases and whether there is a basis for the prosecution to request the resumption of proceedings. After that, it is ultimately up to the courts to decide whether the new information should lead to a different outcome. It is on the basis of a specific assessment in each case that there is a basis for the application to be resumed. The Attorney General has stated that at this stage no cases have been identified where errors and uncertainties in teledata have led to incorrect decisions... Karsten Lauritzen I am sorry, Minister of Justice, but I simply cannot hear what will be the answer. I'm sorry).
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130943	Thank you! I would ask that the debates that are taking place in the back of the Chamber take place outside the Chamber. Thank you. We shall continue to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023130950	Yeah, but it was... it was with the Attorney General). Yes, it was good that you intervened right there, because that was where the answer really started to get interesting. The Attorney General has informed me that no cases have been identified at this stage where errors and uncertainties in teledata have led to incorrect decisions. This is not the same as the fact that it cannot come, that there are over 10,000 cases to be examined. It is only after the authorities have examined all the cases and any cases that may need to be reopened that we have been tried again in the courts that we really want to have the full picture of the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131024	Thank you and the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131025	Thank you to the President for ensuring calm in the Chamber and to the Minister for Justice for answering the question. After all, this is a very, very serious matter and the Minister of Justice also expresses this and also a matter which has a few years on the back. I know about someone about taking over a resort where there are challenges, and they are being tried to solve to the best of their ability, and that is also what I hear from the Minister for Justice in this matter. However, I would like to ask a few questions about what the Minister was reading from the Public Prosecutor's Office, where no cases have been identified at this stage where it is believed that this has led to changed court rulings. I would like to ask whether the Minister for Justice could say something in time about when we have the full picture, and whether it is not also true that we may not be able to answer it quite clearly when a large number of judgments have been passed, and if new information arises, we do not know what weight a court would have given to a telegraph. So even if it is the opinion of the Attorney General at this time, it is an assessment that must be surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty. That's one. Secondly, when the Minister says that it is the assessment at this stage, when will we be able to say something final? When can the Folketing expect to know what the meaning of this has been?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131207	First of all, thank you for the initial expression of sympathy with regard to the common destiny to take over cases which have a few years in the back and which can be reasonably difficult to resolve. The point is simply that there is now the independent control and control group, which has been set up on the basis of the arm's length principle and which in reality turns its case. They probably have some sort of sorting system so that the most relevant cases can be identified. I know that you start with those where, for example. there is a risk that some people are in prison innocently convicted and so on. But we are simply turning things around, and it is after all that review that will reveal what might then be of error that might have been significant. I agree that it is, of course, surrounded by uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131253	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131254	Thank you. One of the cases that has been very public-focused is this Emilie Meng case, which is a very, very tragic case. I fully understand that the Minister of Justice cannot say anything about individual cases, but it seems at least as presented to the public as if in that case it might have been significant. I do not know whether the Minister for Justice can say anything in general about the matter on which there has also been a great deal of political focus, i.e. whether it is not true that it may have had an impact on the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131332	At any rate, it can be said that it was in this case that you asked for a review, that is to say, others to look at the matter in order to get on with it. And one identifies that there is a problem here with the telecommunications information, which helps to make it clear that this is not what has been thought in the past, just specific individual cases of problems, but that there may be a systematic problem, which will help to push through this painful process to correct the problem as it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131408	Thank you. Thank you for that answer, Minister of Justice. As I have been informed, during the two months during which the use of telecommunications data has been suspended, there have been some 60 court proceedings which have been postponed while 36 persons have been released. I would like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether it is not correctly understood that it has in any case had some consequences for the 36 people who have then been released, at a time when they would probably have settled their case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131444	This is, of course, a different question, but now it is quite right that, as we arrive in the autumn and note that there are further errors than those that have been noted, the Attorney General says: for the sake of legal certainty, we will have to suspend the use of teledata for a period of time as proof. Fortunately, with the measures that have now been taken, we have gone beyond that period, so that telecommunications data can be used again today as evidence, with the reservations that we now know need to be made in relation to the actual application.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131516	Thank you, Minister. The question has been answered. The next question is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131525	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131528	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that sufficient consideration is given to the victim and the general sense of justice when perpetrators are reduced for a long period of time from notification to judgment?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131541	The Minister of Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131542	I agree with the questioner that we have also had the opportunity to talk about it in the second context: that it is a problem that some of the perpetrators have reduced their sentences. For me, first of all, it is about the fact that there should not be such long processing times in our legal system that this could lead to a reduction in penalties. In my opinion, we need to address the causes of the problem rather than reacting to the symptoms, and with some having reduced the penalty due to lengthy processing times, I can say that we have Symptomet being so that they can reduce the penalty according to the regulation in the criminal code, and therefore we need to address the fundamental problems, namely the lack of resources of the police and the prosecution and the long processing times that we see. And there, I think, we need to look at the whole chain of criminal proceedings, i.e. how long it takes from notification to prosecution, from charges to charges, and what it takes to bring down the total length of proceedings. This is, of course, the great task that we have ahead of us and which we should like to deal with with the new police settlement, which I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss together. Nevertheless, this is something that I am well aware of, which can be resolved overnight. At best, we will be able to reach an ambitious agreement on a reduction in processing times over time, and that is why I think, following on from what the questioner says, that there may in fact be grounds for uncovering practices in this area, in other words, to look at the cases where the penalty has been reduced due to too long processing time and the amount of the penalty reduction. Therefore, I would ask the Attorney General to explain how the rules, i.e. Paragraph 82 of the Criminal Code, no. 13, on the practical application of the reduction in penalties. And once I have received that statement, I will look into whether there is any reason to make changes in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131750	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131751	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I think it is a huge problem for the victim when perpetrators get their sentences reduced due to lengthy processing times, and that is why I am asking this question, just as it is also on the basis of our consultations that we have had. I have received a number of answers from the Minister, whom I am following up here, precisely in relation to what some of the perpetrators are getting their sentences reduced. Is it the rapist, is it the killer, is it the assault, what kind of perpetrator are they? It is ludicrous that, because of a long period of time in the case, you can reduce your sentence, and the victim's sense of justice lags behind in this area. I would like to hear from the Minister about something in relation to the statement he has set in motion, and I think he has set it in motion on the basis of my questions to the Minister for Justice, because those were some good questions I had asked. I would like to know from the statement whether the Minister thinks that it should simply be recorded in the system. In the reply I have received, the Minister then writes that it is not registered in POLSAS, that is to say in the police system, and that it will take far too long to give the answers I asked for, precisely in relation to what kind of punishment it is and what kind of perpetrators are getting their sentences reduced. After all, I am thinking of the victim and the whole sense of justice, and I do not think it is fair that the perpetrators should have reduced their sentences because of long procedural times, and that is why I have taken it up here in the Minister's Question Time. I would also like to know whether the Minister thinks that it is okay to reduce the penalty due to lengthy processing times. It is also a discussion that we should have, and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on it today, i.e. whether the Minister thinks that it is okay to reduce the penalty because the length of proceedings has been too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023131943	Firstly, I would like to pay tribute to the questioner himself. It is true that it is the questioner who, in consultation initially and subsequently with written questions, has in any case brought this problem to my attention. It is true that this, among other things, is true. Following on from that, I am now asking the Attorney General for a statement on what it looks like. And that goes to the second question that the questioner is asking about: what are these crimes, where this is going to take place and how it is going to happen? I think that these are relevant questions to which we need answers before we deal with what needs to be done. Then there were a lot of other questions in the questioner's remarks, to which I hope I will have the opportunity to return.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132029	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132030	But first of all, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister of Justice has set something in motion. Because it is challenging for, you might say, both the victim and also us politicians, that we cannot get answers to what kind of perpetrators are getting a discount and what kind of cases they are. What I am hearing is that even when you pass judgment, you say that you have to give a discount here because there has simply been too long a processing period. And that is neither fair for the victim nor fair for society in relation to the sense of justice that we should like to have when it comes to our criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132106	Well, I agree with that, and as I can only note it, I can use the last 26 seconds that I have left in this round to answer some of the other things that I did not reach before, namely the question of whether we should have a registration system in the police, where you will be able to withdraw this type of information. It always says in the opposite situation that it may be nice to get all sorts of information and to draw all kinds of information, but on the other hand: how much bureaucracy will we build to do so? In this situation, I hope we can deal with it by getting a statement from the Attorney General which gives rise to an informed discussion on whether there is any reason to change the rules here. Then I really hope that we will be able to address the fundamental problem, namely that there are such long procedural times as there should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132151	Yeah, that's just it. I do not think that one excludes the other. I believe that, at the same time, things can be recorded in relation to long processing times, even if the hump in a new police settlement is being settled. In the Danish People's Party, we are constructively setting up a court rapporteur from whom the Minister of Justice will be honoured. But that also says that, of course, action must be taken on this. I'm thinking about the perspective in terms of length: what is the perspective for solving this? And what is the perspective of criminals not having their sentences reduced because there are too long processing times?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132230	I understand that one does not exclude the other. I also hope that the questioner agrees that what would be best would be if we could solve the basic problem, namely the reason why we have such long processing times. Because it is not just bad in these cases, it is bad in all cases, where all victims have to wait a long time for justice to be done and whoever has committed a crime to be sentenced. But the questioner is also right to say that this should not prevent us from looking at what is the symptom, namely that it would then be reflected in deliverys where it would result in a lower penalty, because there has been a long time of proceedings. However, I think we can do this, particularly on the basis of the statement I have asked for, as I have said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132313	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to the author. The question has been answered. The next question is from Mrs Inger Løjberg to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132321	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132324	Thank you. What will the Minister do in the future to ensure that the Head of Department informs the Minister at an earlier stage than in the teledata case when there are cases that could potentially be very serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132340	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132341	In relation to the teledata case, I think it is important for all of us to remember that we are in the wrong place if we assess the progress of that case in relation to the first briefing by the National Police on the basis of what we know today about the scale and nature of the matter. This is, after all, one of the cases which is understood quite a bit better backwards than forwards, the description of the case that has been so clearly documented. A great deal has been groped to find out what is really at the heart of the matter, just as we have to go far, in fact until just a few months ago, before we can uncover some of the last mistakes and put in place the actions that need to be. This is also clear from both the National Police Commissioner and the Public Prosecutor's statement in the case: that the first briefings to the Department of the National Police were neither complete nor clear for that matter, because they did not really know what the extent of the problem was and what the consequences of the problem were. I think we should look at the department's activities in the light of the lack of information. Having said that, I have also said that I find it regrettable that at an earlier stage the department did not show greater initiative in ensuring sufficient momentum in the work of the other authorities and clarification of the matter. Furthermore, at an earlier stage, I think, the department should have made direct contact with the Attorney General instead of basing itself solely on information received from the National Police. Of course, I expect the department to learn from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132529	I didn't ask about other authorities or the Attorney General. I asked how the Minister of Justice feels about the matter in relation to being a minister himself or the former minister. Because it can be very, very difficult as a politician to act on such a serious matter if you do not have information about it. And it seems that the former minister was not informed and that the current minister was informed at a very late stage. But that does not change the fact that as a minister you are sitting on this particular matter. This is a very serious matter and it is certainly something that we take very seriously in the Left. I suppose the Minister of Justice does, too. Having said that, when the Minister then presented his 16-point plan, one could at least have gone ahead and said: this is something we need to correct in the ministry, which is something wrong. Despite that, point No. 16 Just: The Minister of Justice has asked the department to follow up on the need to learn from the case. Well, what's in it? I think there are many of us who, if we had made mistakes, would like to say: well, but we must move on, we must try to learn from that. I have to say that I think it is a slightly light wording, given the seriousness of this matter and the seriousness of standing back as left behind, for example. I am not saying that it's only in the department, it's probably in many places and that you just think: well, we have to learn from that, we have to move on. I think it is very little respectful, I must say, of those people who have suffered distress and violations in these matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132740	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132742	In fact, there are many elements to what the questioner says. I think, and it is certainly also the questioner's own experience as a minister, that a department is presented with infinitely many cases. There is a sorting of cases along the way, so there is an assessment of which cases are to be presented to the Minister and which cases are not to be presented to the Minister and how far they get into the system. You can always discuss how that cut should be. I just note, and now the questioner himself referred to the former minister, that at that time the Minister for Justice put it this way...
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132825	I would remind you that in the follow-up rounds there is only 1⁄2 minutes of speaking time, and that is why I am trying to have the speaking time respected, and that is why it is the questioner again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132834	Yes, and it is clear that I would have liked to have had an answer to the question that I asked, but then I must try to ask in a slightly different way: what does that mean specifically when the Minister says that learning should be taught? What specific measures will the Minister take so that this will not happen again? Because I really do not think that either the former minister or the current minister can really be served by getting an information so late on such a serious matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132907	That particular remark gives me the opportunity to address where I had come to in my far too long answer before the end of the day, and it also seems in some way a little disproportionately that there is 1 minute to ask and then 1⁄2 minute to answer, but that is quite a different issue. The former minister said: 'The inadequate information received from the Head of Department makes me think that she has acted correctly while I was Minister'. He says so to Berlingske on 4 October this year. In fact, I think that somehow this is a very good thing about when cases are to be submitted to the Minister. That is a concrete assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132944	The minister is sorry, the questioner!
ParlaMint-DK_20191023132946	Yeah, I wish it were the minister. Having said that, I would say: yes, I am fully aware that this is a concrete assessment and that it can be difficult. But I must also say that it is a very long time before the department chooses to inform the Minister of this matter. And I think it is deeply worrying and I think it must feel offensive to the victims to say it as it is. So I am not criticising the Minister at all in this way. That's what I'm gonna say. It's the system, it's the department. I think it seems very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133028	Thank you to the questioner. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133030	But the remark that it must feel offensive, I think, is not really exactly this part, because it is just a small element, but also an element in the overall process. However, the fact that we have had a situation in which there are possibly innocent people who have been convicted and guilty who have been released is of course of every sort of offence, and not least for the victims. So I agree with that. That is also why the independent authority is now examining all the cases backwards and a number of initiatives have now been taken to ensure that something similar does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133107	Thank you, Minister. The question has been answered. Before we move on to the next question, I should like to inform you that those of Marie Krarup under no. 33 and 34 questions put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration shall be withdrawn at the request of the author. We have come to Question No 1 by Mr de la Malène and others on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5 It is for the Minister of Justice, and it is from Mrs Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133131	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133134	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's view of the Department of Justice's handling of the teledata case, and what are the consequences of the Minister's view that handling should have?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133145	It's a little over in the same direction as the question we just went through, which is why of course the answer is also a little the same. In relation to the teledata case, I think it is important for all of us not to assess the progress of the department in relation to the first orientation of the National Police on the basis of what we know today about the coherence and extent of the matter, because this is a matter of great complexity and scope. When we know what we know today, it is easy to judge, but then there was a great deal of uncertainty, and the orientations that were given were, of course, associated with considerable uncertainty. It is clear from the deliberations of the National Police Commissioner and the Attorney General on the matter that the first briefings of the Ministry of Justice's Department of the National Police were not complete or, for that matter, that they were, among other things, not complete. did not clearly have an overview of the extent and possible consequences of the problem. It is also clear from the statement that the National Police are sorry that this was the case. At the same time, I find it regrettable that at an earlier stage the department did not show greater initiative in ensuring sufficient momentum in the clarification of the matter by the authorities. Furthermore, at an earlier stage, as I said earlier, the Department should have made direct contact with the Attorney General instead of basing itself solely on information provided by the National Police. As I have said, this is what I expect from the action plan, whose paragraph 16 was mentioned earlier, that lessons will be learnt, as I also stated in the letter which I also sent to Parliament on 3 October.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133331	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133332	I fully agree that this is a complex matter, but it is also an extremely serious matter. And I must say that I do not remember being able to think back to the serious cases of the past, where the conclusion has been something like that we must learn from that. Well, I think there are a lot of citizens out there who are thinking, 'Well, if I had made a serious mistake, I would also like the conclusion afterwards to be that this is something that we have to learn from. When you delve into the statement sent by the Minister, you can see that it took 14 days, from the department's knowledge of the case, to the department's head of department received a briefing, and then another 40 days went by before the Lawyers' Society was informed, and then five more working days went by before the defense attorneys and courts got to know the case, and the Folketing was then informed only sometime at the beginning of July. Should the department not have realised that there was something potentially very, very serious at stake here, and thus also have realised the seriousness of the matter in order to ensure that the minister responsible was informed and that it was also ensured that the Folketing and the relevant authorities were informed at a much earlier stage? What consequence should it have of not taking that learning along the way and also ensuring that action was taken in time along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133502	Well, I don't think it's a fair interpretation to say that we're gonna break that down. In fact, I think that what is happening in this case with all the regrettable things that are in it is that it takes its time, because it is complex to identify the error, which, incidentally, turns out to be not one error, but many errors which then have to be made. Those errors acknowledge and declare the authorities. Then action will be taken on what should happen, which is not just nothing, but a quite comprehensive action plan that we are implementing and which includes both large and small things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133541	It is a complex matter, but let me try to ask a really fairly simple question: why did the department not inform the then Minister of Justice about the case before the then Minister of Justice, who was acting Minister of Justice at the time, could read about the matter in the press?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133558	Fortunately, this is a question to which I have the opportunity to return in relation to some of the other questions that have been raised today, and it is basically about what role a minister has in the situation where elections have been held or where a government has resigned and you are a business ministry and no longer a ministry in the traditional sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133623	I would then like to give the Minister the invitation to answer that question now rather than to use his reply time to refer to questions that come later in the Chamber. Why was it that the department did not arrange to inform the then Minister of Justice about the case before he could look up the newspaper and read about it in the press? Does it not have any consequences that there has been no provision to inform the highest political authority, namely the then Minister of Justice? This is a long case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133651	Well, it is good that the questioner will invite me to answer another question, but it also confirms in fact that the questioner is asking a different question from the question put by the questioner in the series of questions that we are dealing with now. Therefore, it makes the most sense to answer the question when there is time to answer it and not just half a minute, but when I have better time to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133712	The question has been answered with those rounds. That brings us to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133723	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133726	Thank you. Does the Minister think it's okay that the National Police took so long to understand the system of errors in the teledata case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133734	The Minister to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133738	No. The statement shows, as one of the main criticisms in the teledata case, that the National Police have had insufficient quality control with teledata and that there has been no documentation and follow-up of errors. This is very serious and has, among other things, been the case. the fact that no known errors and risks in telecommunications data have been systematically communicated to the other actors in the criminal proceedings chain. At the same time, the statement points to several reasons why so much time has elapsed in uncovering and understanding the extent of the consequences of the errors, after the National Police's leadership became aware in the spring that there could be a systematic error in the conversion of data, since individual errors have already been detected at a very earlier stage, but here we are starting to treat it as a systematic problem. It acts among other things. that, as I said before, there has been no structured documentation and follow-up of the errors detected. This has been the case both for the telecenter, for the Kingdom police, and for the police. It is about the fact that the National Police have been focusing too long on the fact that this was probably just a technical problem that could be solved if the systems were adjusted, and this is about the possible consequences it has had for the investigation. The National Police Commissioner himself has said that the handling of teledata by the National Police has been extremely unsatisfactory. I agree with that, and that is also why I have criticised it and, as I have said before, in my view, this is a very unsightly process in the telecommunications data file, which has potentially had serious consequences for confidence in our legal system. As I mentioned earlier, as a follow-up to this, no less than 16 measures have been taken to help restore confidence in the rule of law and prevent a similar situation from arising again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023133949	Thank you. I think that without going too far it can be said that this is an unsightly process. I also think that you could take stronger words in your mouth. At any rate, I know that the Minister has been able to do so in the past when he was an opposition politician, but a lot can happen in that transformation. What about the inquiries that were made along the way to the National Police Telecenter about errors? What does the minister think about the fact that they were not acted upon? This is something that has not just happened once, but has happened repeatedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134026	It is true that these are errors that go back quite a long way. It is also mistakes which were actually made during the previous government, and it has a former party colleague, or a former ministerial colleague, because he is probably still a party colleague, given the answer to the questioner in relation to the fact that there are these errors. However, they have been regarded as individual errors and not in the telecentre had a form in which a systematic approach has been taken, so that mistakes have been picked up and worked with them. That is one of the reasons why things are going too long before they say: it might well be that we should try to see if we should not go more systematically to dealing with this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134115	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134117	But it can be difficult for an outsider who doesn't necessarily know the system down in detail to understand that 10,700 cases are like individual errors; it is, of course, like being quite many. I would therefore also like to follow up on a question to the Minister for Justice as to how he thinks that, in addition to the 16 measures that have now been announced, they should be in relation to the National Police and what the Minister himself has done in this regard. Have there been any meetings? Has there been, if I may say so, a new way of working together between the Department and the National Police?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134200	The 10,700 errors were, after all, a figure that was there when you thought you were going to go back to 2012, I think it was. It now turns out that we need to look further back, which means that the 10,700 are too small, but these are all the cases in which teledata has been used at all, and there we have to look in and see what the meaning of teledata has been. Very rarely does teledata stand alone as a means of proof, and that is why one is in this identification of what the meaning has been and whether there is reason to resume the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134232	However, the Minister for Justice will agree that, although teledata is not in itself the smoking gun or proof, they help to make it possible to establish that the explanation that may have been given is not correct. And that's why when you look at the situation in some serious and sad cases, the Emilie Meng case and the murder of the woman in Elverparken, you get very, very sad, because this could potentially mean that there are perpetrators there, and there are those who are at large.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134310	Yeah. Teledata is used both in connection with the investigation, but also, as the questioner says, in connection with a trial debate, and it is a disaster if you have been in a situation where, for example, you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where, for example, you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where, for example, you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in which you, for example, you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in a situation where you have been in which you have been in which you have been in which you have been in the same way that time that time that you have been in which you have been in which you have you have been able to have been able to have been able to have you have been able to have you to have been able to have been able to have been That's why the cases are being examined now with this thoroughness. It's to find out what the nature of these mistakes is and whether there are any cases that need to be reopened.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134343	Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question, and thank you to the honourable Member. The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party, and the question is also for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134352	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134356	Thank you. As the questioner welcomes the Minister's criticism of both the legal activism of the European Court of Justice and the Court of Human Rights, will the Minister explain what he thinks Denmark can do to combat this legal activism?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134413	Thank you for the question. This is an issue which I think is extremely interesting, by the way. So are the other issues, but this is a dialogue which we fortunately have the opportunity to conduct with each other on a regular basis. The European Court of Justice has for a number of years passed judgments, among others. on the fundamental principles of EU law and the internal market, and I believe that it is not going too far if they are described as activist, and so it must also be said that the European Court of Human Rights has delivered judgments, which I would describe as activist. I believe that this is something on which such a broad consensus can be established. That is why, of course, it raises the question: then what? There I think you have to look at the two courts a little separately. For it was precisely one of the themes that Denmark addressed in relation to the Court of Human Rights when Denmark held the Presidency of the Council of Europe in spring 2018. This resulted in the so-called Copenhagen Declaration, which among other things. should contribute to a more balanced approach to protection under the Convention on Human Rights. So the indictment that happens is a tool. This can also be used in relation to the European Court of Justice. For me, it is really important that we should be able to take a critical view of the decisions of the courts and their interpretation style and have an open dialogue on it. And one of the ways in which dialogue is conducted in addition to that in the political sphere is also through written and oral speeches in other countries' cases, which are dealt with by the court and in which the government intervenes. After all, Denmark does so in some 35-40 cases a year, that is to say, in concrete terms and makes submissions, most recently in this Tele2 judgment, where there is then a judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134614	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased that the Minister is stressing that we agree that this legal activism is a problem. Because it is bad law, that is, the fact that very often it is impossible to predict how a judgment ends and to follow the logic of the previous case law, etc., so that the court takes its leaps forward, as it were, without warning. We have experienced this in Denmark many times. Changing ministers come home from Luxembourg with a somewhat different view of what things look like than as it might be widely among the countries or in parliament, or where it might be where there are elected politicians were assumed that things looked like. This is a problem and I am glad that for the first time, as far as I am aware, we have a Minister of Justice who recognises it. So the question is: what can we do? Perhaps I am a little disappointed that the Minister himself does not mention that the European Court of Justice should have the practice known from the Strasbourg Court of Justice, namely to pronounce dissidents. In other words, the fact that a minority of judges not only have to discuss within the context of the courts what a proper outcome is, but that we can get it printed, as we know it from the Court of Human Rights, so that the authority with which an EU judgment, for example, is held. is not exactly the same strength as if it were a completely unanimous decision. That would be a positive approach. Another way of dealing with the Court of Human Rights could be simply to say that we only recognise the decisions of the Grand Chamber. So, the quality of the judges at the Court of Human Rights, which I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss later, hopefully also later today, is a rather dubious size, which is why we could of course consider whether we need to follow decisions taken by one, three or seven judges. Perhaps one should choose to say "I think other countries choose to do so" that we only follow those who are settled in a large chamber, rather than having the practice that we have today. Could the Minister consider that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134816	This is really a very interesting talk. I just think that we will have to reverse what the author said at the outset, namely that it is bad law. It is more true to say that it is system alien law, in other words because it seems very foreign to our legal tradition, the one in which I and the questioner are trained. But for a number of the other European legal systems, this is the way to interpret. And that then gives reason to identify another issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134851	It's gonna be in the next round. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134853	I'd like to agree to say it's just foreign law. It is certainly a practice which is unknown to the Danish constitution, in which it is quite clear that the judges are subject to the law and therefore should not create. Therefore, I would also like the Minister to be somewhat clearer about what we are doing, because it is a democratic problem, it is a constitutional problem that we have courts in Luxembourg and Strasbourg which repeatedly ignore what we in the Folketing have democratically wanted to be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134927	But when I spent time on it, it was really just to quantify the solution field. Because when we find ourselves in a situation where there is another legal tradition, as we can then call it, I simply do not think it is within the scope of action to expect that it can be fundamentally changed. In other words, on those terms you will have to give it that it is an international community's cooperation to find out what we then have of the possibilities of action. And, of course, one of the things we have as an opportunity to act is to address the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023134958	There will be no solution to address it. Well, we have to be concrete here. I made two specific proposals, one from the Luxembourg Court, one from the Strasbourg Court, and the Minister has yet to sign or reject both of them. Could it not be an idea to examine whether we really should respect so-called judgments handed down by perhaps one or seven people in Strasbourg, by people who have no experience whatsoever from Supreme Courts, national courts, or whatever it may be called in their countries, that is to say, who are nowhere near the same factuality as we know from the Danish Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135034	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135035	I hope given our dialogue that the questioner doesn't see it as if I'm trying to get around the answers. I have to stay within the relatively limited time limit that I have to answer the questions. I am just saying that one of the ways to address the fundamental problem, which is not immediately changing and which has at least worked in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, is that it is being addressed. I agree that we can also look for other tools; we will have to do so on another occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135105	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and thank you to the author. This brings us to the last question put to the Minister for Justice at a time when there is a maximum of one hour. And I shall now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Karsten Lauritzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135111	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135120	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's view that guilty persons may have been freed and innocent people may have been convicted because there have been errors in the authorities' teledata?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135133	Now I got the answer that was intended for Morten Dahlin, who has withdrawn the question, so I must just... First Vice-President Of course. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 9, and it's from sir. Karsten Lauritzen, and this is § 20-question no. S 150). Yeah, I see that. I am sorry, but it was too late that I started looking down over it and could see that it did not really answer the question that was asked. First Vice-President That is perfectly understandable. Here you go to the Minister). As I said in reply to the previous question from the same questioner, Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and That is why the matter is very serious. I have also said this on several occasions, which has potentially had serious consequences for confidence in our legal system, and it is therefore also essential that the public be confident that we can rely on it. This is taking place in the future, but it is also doing so backwards with the examination of the many, many cases in which telecommunications data has been entered into by the independent control and control group, so that we are sure that there is an arm's length arm so that everything is in order. So it happens backwards; that work is going on now, and we mentioned that before. So, what's going on in the future? Well, 16 actions have been taken, which should, overall, help restore confidence. Twelve of the actions are recommended by the National Police and the Attorney General in their statement. In brief, the four other measures concern the establishment of a new independent supervision system to monitor technical investigative means and evidence from the police. It is not just in connection with teledata; there may also be a need for supervision of DNA and other evidence. Then we need to have a coal excavation of the police and prosecutor's IT systems, which may sound like a narrow case, but it's not when you have to go through IT systems at all. Finally, we need a fundamental reorganisation of the National Police, so we will have a new National Police, and then we will have to learn lessons from this case that we have been through throughout the group.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135359	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for the answer. After all, I asked what the Minister thinks, and the Minister also mentioned this, but he also mentioned a lot of other things. So I think that my follow-up question, which that speech then leads to, will be the same: what is the Minister's view that guilty people may have been freed and innocent people may have been convicted because there have been errors in the authorities' teledata? And I am fully aware that this has not happened in the time when the Minister of Justice has been the Minister of Justice, but that is how it is when you become a minister of a large area of operation; then you acknowledge inheritance and debt, even if sometimes there is more administrative debt than inheritance. After all, this is a deeply, deeply problematic and very, very embarrassing matter for the police and the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice, and in particular the department, and the Minister for Justice has also mentioned that it weakens confidence in our legal system, especially at a time when I know there is a desire, both politically and administratively, that you can actually use teledata to a greater extent than the legislation allows. That is why it is very, very important that we get to the bottom of this matter quickly, and that will then be the task of the Minister of Justice. But my question is really of a political nature: what is the Minister's political attitude to the situation in which we find ourselves, where guilty people may have been freed and innocent people may have been convicted because there have been errors in the authorities' telecommunications data?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135531	In fact, I could reply simply by referring to what the questioner himself has just said. The questioner explained in such an excellent way what the questioner considers to be the problem by saying that we have this situation with the sense of justice which is being offended and how terrible it is that in a society of justice such as ours we may risk having people who have committed a crime and who are not being prosecuted, or even worse that we have some who may have been imprisoned convicted of a crime that they have not committed. So it messes with some of the foundations of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135614	Thank you. I can then ask the Minister again, because I do not think the Minister for Justice is saying very clearly that this is a scandal. For our justice system, for the police, for the Ministry of Justice, this is very, very regrettable. What word will the Minister of Justice put on the fact that guilty people may have gone free and innocent people may have been convicted because there have been errors in the authorities' teledata? And, by the way, it is errors that seem to have been widely known in the system for far too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135651	Having been so guided by the questioner in the direction of an answer, I would say that this is a scandal if we are to quantify it very briefly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135702	I agree with the Minister for Justice on this, so I have no follow-up final question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135710	Thank you to the honourable Member and thank the Minister for Justice for answering a number of questions. One hour has elapsed, and so we move on to the question line. There are now questions for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and that is Question No. S 147 by Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135738	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135743	Thank you. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that younger disabled people are not forced to live in nursing homes for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135748	Thank you. I very much agree with the questioner that it is important for young people with disabilities to have the opportunity to live with other young people. Most young people with disabilities want the same thing as other young people, namely to be with peers and live a youth life with association, shared interests and activities. This is also one of the reasons why a broad majority in the Folketing has adopted a new settlement clause in the Services Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020. This provision allows municipalities to set up long-term housing services specifically targeted at young people under 35 years of age. The intention behind the new provision is precisely to support young people with disabilities living a youth life with peers. In addition, as a citizen, you already have the right to free choice when you are searched for a long-term residence offer under the Service Act or for a general care home under the General Housing Act. This means that you have the right to choose a different residence offer or a different foster home from the one the municipality points to if three things are fulfilled. Firstly, the accommodation offer you want must be suitable to meet your needs; secondly, the offer must appear in the Offer Portal; and finally, the accommodation offer you want must not be significantly more expensive than the offer that the municipality considers suitable to meet your needs. And the municipality has the duty to guide the citizen about the free choice here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023135914	Thank you. One of the things that impresses me is probably a little the same as the minister is about, so what it actually does to young people with disabilities to be placed with older people in nursing homes. Because it is quite true that then you will experience young people who withdraw into themselves, they will actually become lonely, and there will be no development whatsoever with the young people with these disabilities. I know that a new rule will soon come into force on the possibility that the municipalities can make these other types of accommodation offers. I would like to ask whether the Minister will somehow ensure that it is then pushed off well out there in the municipalities. For sometimes we can unfortunately experience that from the time we make a decision here at Christiansborg and then that you also catch the good idea around the municipalities, it can take several years. In fact, I would like to ask a little more directly whether the Minister has any tools in his sleeve that the Minister expects to use when it comes into force here from 1 January.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140032	Thank you. And first of all I would like to say that I fully share the questioner's view of what it can have as a consequence for a very young person to be placed in a nursing home, and especially all the time that we know that in most nursing homes up to eight out of ten, more and more elderly people are going to nursing homes today, not only physically weakened, but also cognitively weakened, and that it is therefore very, very difficult to live something that is just an approximate ordinary youth life there. Then the questioner asks whether there are any special tools to be used to... it has to wait until the next round, because now it is the questioner's turn).
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140115	Thank you. But then I can follow up on the question and then the minister will have to see if she can answer both. In other words, in some places the assumption has been made that municipalities also look at the economy, in relation to what is allocated by seats. Therefore, it may well be that some extra screws need to be tightened up in order to actually get the municipalities to tackle this important task. And that is actually what I want to hear from the Minister, i.e. if she has any of these screws in the toolbox, which she assumes she will tighten up a little to get the municipalities to use this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140147	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140148	Thank you. I have to get back to work; this is the first time I have answered oral Article 20 questions as minister in this round. Well, listen to me: I would say that the municipalities themselves have asked for this opportunity, and that is why I clearly expect that when they have asked for it, they will also use it. I do not think there is anyone in any municipalities who wakes up in the morning with a desire to send young people with disabilities to nursing homes with elderly people, I simply do not think so. When we look at these matters, I think it is related to the fact that the economy is under pressure in the municipalities. That is why I am so pleased that, with the first economic agreement we have concluded with the municipalities by the government, we are ensuring the greatest boost over the last 10 years to nuclear welfare. Because that means everything else equal, that there's better room to prioritize this as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140229	Yes, because we have to say that in recent years, unfortunately, the number of young people living with elderly people in nursing homes has increased. In fact, just here from 2007 to 2018 it has increased from 687 young people and up to 1,037 young people staying in nursing homes. So I really hope that this is something that the Minister will also follow closely and help push well ahead so that these young people can get a proper offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140258	The Minister for the latter part of the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140300	Thank you. In general, thank you very much to the questioner for the opportunity to discuss this, because I think it is extremely important. After all, we have a further question which is also about how we can ensure that having a good life and having quality of life and being satisfied with life is also something that can apply to the citizens we have with a disability, and that unfortunately does not look too good. The municipalities themselves have asked for this opportunity, which is why I expect them to use it quite clearly; but I have it quite like the questioner, that if it turns out that this does not happen sufficiently, then of course we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140330	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140338	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140339	What measures does the Minister intend to take to change the low quality of life for many disabled people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140350	Thank you for that question too. As a society, we must do everything we can to ensure that people with disabilities have the same opportunities as everyone else to live a good life. Therefore, we must also take it deeply, deeply seriously when figures show that many people with disabilities are dissatisfied with life. In the Social Democratic Party we went in the spring, among other things. the choice of improving opportunities for people with disabilities. This is clear both in our disability initiative and in the paper of understanding between the government and the support parties, and that is an ambition that we hold fast to. The first thing we want to do is to carry out an evaluation of the specialized social area with a view to identifying solutions to ensure the necessary quality of the services offered to citizens. We must make sure that it is not a struggle to get the right help. Unfortunately, that is the experience that too many citizens have today. And then there must be better opportunities for training for young people with disabilities. These are all important initiatives and, of course, I hope that the Left will help to ensure that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140449	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140449-2	I can then tell you that it is also very important for the Left that we should perhaps even increase the focus on creating even better opportunities for disabled people, perhaps especially in relation to the part called legal certainty for disabled people. Unfortunately, it is the case that, among other things. are a great many municipal decisions that are being reversed, including in the Ankestyrelsen, and that is at least one of the things that I hope the government has some tools for, namely how to also ensure better legal certainty for people with disabilities. And I wonder whether that was something that the Minister could say a few words about, in other words how that task is to be tackled in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140531	Thank you. One cannot have dealt with this area for many minutes or met many relatives of people with disabilities without recognizing that there is a trust here that is worn out and that there is too widespread a perception that the system that is set up in the world to help people must be fought with very unequal battles. I think that the main reason for this mistrust, or that confidence is thin, is that we have seen so much pressure on an economy in the municipalities that we have and the municipalities' coffers are connected. More children have arrived and more older people have arrived, but the previous government has not wanted to keep up with the money, and the municipal funds are therefore tied together. So when we see the pressure that has been in this area, I think that is the main explanation of the distrust we have seen. And now I'd better hold it before the President rebukes me again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140622	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140624	It is fine to try to deliver more money, but it is not always the case that money does so alone. In any case, some of what some people are asking for is, in fact, also increased freedom. And that is at least one of the things that we, as a liberal party, love very much. So I would like to hear from the Minister about such a thing as now having a better chance of using the means to cope with everyday life as a disabled person and to gain greater freedom in that area. Is that something the Minister wants to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140700	I believe that it is important that we have a thorough coverage of the entire specialized social area and that we have looked at whether there are rules that are unnecessarily complicated, rules that are cumbersome, rules that mean that resources are withdrawn from what should be the most important thing, namely to ensure a proper quality of life for people with disabilities who, due to a disability or a disability, need help from the community. And part of that would be a simplification. So if the Left has any more concrete proposals, then the Left must finally put them forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140739	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140740	We also fully agree with this, i.e. the removal of unnecessary rules and debureaucratisation, but we also know that sometimes it can take a very long time. That is why I also hope that there are some low-hanging fruits. Among other things: Perhaps, as I mentioned just now, it could be an idea to give greater freedom to disabled people in relation to the means they really want. I would really like to discuss this with the Minister and hear the Minister's comments on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140812	I think that is one of the things that it can make a lot of sense to discuss. So, in the context of our proximity reform, we would like to discuss where we can move the decisions closer to both the citizens and the professionals who sit and are responsible. I have heard, as the questioner probably has, a great many tired descriptions of discussions about aids that are in a stalemate and where those who end up feeling worse than they did on the basis of, are the citizen with disabilities who cannot get the aid that might have been actually recommended at the regional level. There are some system errors here, which are some of the things we need to look at when we get this thorough coverage of the specialized social area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140853	Thank you to the Minister for the answer to the question, and thank you to the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140902	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140904	Thank you. Does the Minister share his party-common opinion that it should be possible to lock the door to outgoing people with disabilities, as reproduced in the article "Minist visits ended up in quarrels about imprisonment" on 15 May 2019 in Fyens Stiftstidende, in order to prevent significant personal injury?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023140922	Thank you for the question. The specific case of Jonas Høj Jensen, which forms the basis for the whole discussion on locking all doors, is very sad. And I can really understand the frustration of the next of kin. It must be difficult to feel that the legislation made to look after our loved ones actually stands in the way of that very thing. We are just as concerned about finding a solution to the unfortunate situation now as we were before the elections, because it must and must always be man before the system. I myself, as the former Minister and current rapporteur did, sat at the table during the recent discussions on new rules of force use last year, and so, like the questioner, I know that the area of use of force is a very difficult and dilemmaous area in which solutions require great care, both politically and legally and ethically. In this particular case, it should be borne in mind that this is actually a question of locking in an adult person, that is to say detention without a conviction. But it should also be remembered that the intervention is desired to care for a citizen who cannot always take care of himself and predict his actions, and that duality must of course contain a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141030	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141031	It is true that we first had the debate on the use of force, and later this case of Jonas Høj Jensen came up where there was a decision that one had to open the doors and that one had to comply with that decision. I just remember that the Socialists were very concerned about ensuring that those who cannot take care of themselves should also be careful. Both Mrs Trine Bramsen and Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil of the Social Democratic Party said that this was something that had to be resolved very quickly. Then I'm just wondering, 'cause now I've seen the law catalogue that there's nothing in the law program about it. If, in the spring, back in May, and back in December last year, it was said that it was something that had to be resolved very quickly, then I am just wondering, especially since there was a completely finished amendment in the Ministry which could have been discussed with the parties that it has not been included in the legislative programme. So can the Minister say why there is nothing in the legislative programme about it, and what is the point as to whether or not to include anything in the legislative programme?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141131-2	Thank you. Well, I didn't take part in the discussion myself in the spring, to which the former minister refers, so I can't really explain what's up and down in it. But I have to assume that if we did not go ahead with that solution, it was because it did not strike the right balance in what I have just outlined, that is to say, taking the essential considerations into account, namely that it would be the detention of an adult, but that, on the other hand, it would also be a citizen who cannot take care of himself and predict his actions. We're working on a solution. It must be carefully thought out and, of course, it must also be discussed properly with the parties of the Folketing, and I would like to sign for it if the Conservative People's Party joins and is ready for it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141215	Thank you. That's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141215-2	However, if we did not strike the right balance, it would be quite obvious to call for a new debate and find out how to achieve a proper balance. I just have the impression that it is not a very high priority for the government now that you are no longer in opposition. For at that time both Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil and Mrs Trine Bramsen said that this was a priority and that it was therefore necessary to ensure that a solution was found. That is why I ask again: why is there not a solution which Jonas Høj Jensen and his mother and other relatives can count on and which they said they would provide?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141250	I can guarantee that the government is doing what it can to find a solution to this problem. It requires a change of law and, as you know, it requires a majority in the Folketing to be able to make a change of law. That's why I'm really glad to see the Conservatives be so concerned about this. Then we are closer to being able to count to 90 mandates. If this was very simple, I assume that the questioner, when she was a minister, could also very quickly have solved it here in the spring. I will go ahead with this and I will also invite the parties of the Folketing to discuss this very issue as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141328	The questioner for one last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141329	But it just shows that this is no longer a high priority. And it is a challenge every day for Jonas Høj Jensen and for Jonas Høj Jensen's mother, who stands with doors open so that he can go out into the streets and alleys and both get hurt and also hurt others. So we owe it to those who cannot take care of themselves and who have a great cognitive disability to find solutions. That is why I would just like to ask: has negotiations been convened or when does the Minister intend to convene negotiations to ensure that a solution is found for Jonas Høj Jensen and others who are in a similar situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141402	After all, the questioner is not the rapporteur in this area and is therefore quite legally excused for not knowing that every two months I meet with the rapporteurs with a broad content, where we have a common understanding that we are pooling things so that it will be at the next next rapporteur meeting of the Socialist Group. Here the questioner should be welcome to associate with his disability or social rapporteur. The meeting, as I remember it, is in the first half of November.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141431	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We move on to the questions, and the next question is also by Mrs Mai Mercado to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141438	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141439	With reference to the Minister's party-joint, Trine Bramsens, promise that the Social Democratic Party wants a waiver in relation to the locking of doors, as described in the article "Minists' visits ended up in quarrels about detention on 15 May 2019 in Fyens Stiftstidende, will the Minister respond to when the government intends to call for negotiations on a solution, so e.g. outgoing persons with disabilities and their relatives can get the help that has been promised to them in the press?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141506	After all, we almost anticipated the answer to this question in my last answer to the questioner, namely that I plan to hold regular regular meetings with all the social rapporteurs and that I expect the next one to come here in November. Here I have thought that this locking problem should be on the agenda and I will make a proposal on what we can do about the problem. And then we will have to have a broad discussion afterwards, because, as I said earlier, and as I know the questioner knows all about, a change of law requires that the Folketing is involved. It is just as in the constitution and the division of power that one as a minister is dependent on a majority in the Folketing if one is to be able to change the legislation. But the very short and concrete answer is that I wish I had a date, but it is in the first half of November that that meeting is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141552	The article referred to shows a rather heated argument between Mrs Trine Bramsen and myself, where she says that as a minister you can simply introduce a derogation. There I would like to ask whether it is not true that a minister cannot just do that, but that it requires a change of law. That is my first question. The next question is: is it not also true that this amendment of the law should, in this way, be based on either a political agreement or, at least, a political understanding, so that it cannot be decided, as a minister, that a derogation system will be introduced? Because the rules on the use of force do not allow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141633	I must start by saying that I was not present when the discussion in question took place. I can also understand in connection with the article which refers to the fact that it was a discussion that took place for over half an hour, and so I cannot, for good reasons, stand here and relate to what words have fallen or have not fallen in that discussion. Mai Mercado That's not what I'm asking either). What I can say is that we are working to find a solution, and we are just as committed to that now as we were before the elections. But it is clear that it must be a viable solution to all the different ethical dilemmas that exist when we talk about the use of force, and it must be able to find broad support here in the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141715-2	But I did not get an answer to my question, so I would like to ask the Minister specifically: is it possible for the Minister to introduce a derogation, a derogation, or is it correct that a derogation should be introduced by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141736	Well, listen: I'm not going to stand here and go into a discussion per. in writing. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I can read in the paper that it was a discussion that took place over half an hour, and then there are some quotes that are reproduced here. So I cannot stand here and have that discussion with neither credibility nor integrity, in relation to what should have been promised and claimed or not promised and claimed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141809	The questioner for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141811	No, I didn't ask for that either. I am not asking the Minister to deal with that dispute at all. I ask quite calmly in relation to the statement made and if you really do not know, you have to answer me in writing: is it true that a minister cannot simply make such a derogation, but will have to ensure that it becomes a change of law in order to bring about such changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141836	The Minister for the last reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141838	If a solution to this problem lay just ahead and was something the former minister could have caught out of the air, I assume that the former minister had done so. In other words, this is a serious and complicated issue, which is what the former minister knows all about and that is why we need to find a proper solution that takes into account all the ethical dilemmas that are here and the responsibility that we have for some very vulnerable people, but also the responsibility that we have for ensuring that there is no slippage when we talk about the use of force. I will include Parliament's parties, and I am just as impatient as the author and now the questioner knows that when we reach the first half of November, the meeting has been held where we are going to discuss this locking problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023141916	Thank you to the Minister for answering the question. Thank you to the questioner for that question. The next question I'm gonna take a look at in the hall. It's supposed to be sir. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left, and it is also a question for the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. I speak slowly and clearly, but as I do not see the questioner, I would like to note that the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior has answered the questions put to the Minister during today's Question Time to the Ministers. So we must move on to the next question. Here, too, we need both a questioner and a minister in the Chamber. I will not ask the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior to act as Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality, although I can recommend the area. The shift can be interesting. Nevertheless, I am just trying to stall for a moment, but at least thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. It's done what needs to be done here. I'm gonna stall for a moment and get ready for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142505	Thus with little flexibility deported from both questioners and ministers etc. We proceed with the meeting and now proceed with a question to the Minister for Transport, which Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142527	Thank you, Minister, for showing up here. I should like to ask what the Minister thinks about the fact that during the last election campaign Rødovre Municipality took down some election posters, which otherwise were legally hung on road trees on Roskildevej, with reference to the fact that in Rødovre Municipality there were own rules for election posters.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142547	Thank you for the question. As the honourable Member will be aware, the Ministry of Transport and Housing has already sent a note back in August to the questioner prepared by the Road Directorate concerning the very same case on which the questioner has now put this Article 20 question. It is therefore no surprise that the rules governing the suspension of election posters on public roads are set out in the Road Code, and here it is quite clear where election posters may be hanged, including on road trees, and it is clear when the election posters may be hung at the earliest and, above all, when they must be taken down at the latest. The Road Act also regulates the circumstances under which a municipality may remove electoral posters. So let me just conclude that the law must, of course, be observed and that it is therefore not satisfactory if a municipality does not administer in accordance with the applicable rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142642	Thank you. I was happy with the answer I received from the Road Directorate. I would also very much like the Minister to say so, because it has a different weight when you have heard a minister say it. So I assume that the Minister supports the letters sent from the Road Directorate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142705	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142706	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142708	The question has been settled, and so we move on quietly to the next item on the agenda. It is also a question to the Minister for Transport, and it is asked by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142733	Here you go for the reading of Question No. S 133.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142735	Thank you. When does the Minister estimate that the North Jutland elected Social Democrats, who to Nordjyske on 25 May 2019 all replied "yes" to allocate money to the third Limfjord connection during the current parliamentary term, will be given the opportunity to honour the promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142759	Thank you for the question. First of all, let me stress that I have a great deal of sympathy for the questioner's interest in infrastructure projects in his local area. I guess it's almost a duty of any member of parliament, no matter where they are elected. It is gratifying that an expert group earlier this year came to the conclusion that the state of the current Limfjord tunnel is much better than feared. However, this does not alter the fact that from a traffic and capacity perspective it remains such that there is a basis for establishing a third Limfjord connection. As I also said to the author's party colleague, Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer, here in the Chamber two weeks ago, is my ambition to create a stable framework for the next 10 years of infrastructure investment, and I will therefore seek as broad a political agreement as possible on future investments in infrastructure. In this respect, it is my clear expectation that a third Limfjord link will be one of the projects that we will be discussing in the forthcoming negotiations. The specific priority of projects will depend, by their very nature, on what is supported in the Danish Parliament, and therefore, of course, I am very much looking forward to hearing a definition of what will be the priorities of the Left Party in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023142920	Thank you. I don't think the Northern Jutlanders got much smarter on that, to put it bluntly. It should not be a secret that when the question is raised here today... I have to say that it counts down from 30 seconds here; I think it is 2 minutes to give, but I will survive that. Fourth Vice-President No, I'll keep an eye on it). We'll figure it out. When I raise the question here today, it is because the problem is really, really, very much in North Jutland. Personally, I have no doubt that we will probably get the third Limfjord connection at some point by some government, but the problem is that it doesn't matter whether it comes in 2024 or the spade goes into the ground in 2034. As long as the government is leaning on parties, for whom private carism is absolutely not something you support so much, I could fear for a later start, and that is why I ask the Minister. The Minister wants to make a traffic settlement, and I fully understand that, but is it a traffic settlement that we are getting started now, or is it one that we have to look at in three years' time before an election, or what is it? I guess I'll have to address that a little more directly to the minister. In this context, I should like to point out that the Minister's party colleague, our excellent mayor in Aalborg, answered a question to Nordjyske Stiftstidende, who asks him: Is a new connection no longer in the future? To this he answers: I do not necessarily think so; it may as well be that it has moved closer. So I would like to know whether the fact that the Minister has taken over the ministerial office means that a third Limfjord connection has moved closer than the date of 2024 for the start-up operation of the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143114	One can well hear that the questioner is not a transport policy, because then the questioner would be aware that the author's party has already indicated that he will be included in a broad political agreement. So this a little strange mumbo jumbo trying to signal that there are some parties that this government wants to make a narrow agreement with on transport, I simply cannot recognise. On the contrary, as Minister for Transport, I have set out to make as broad an agreement as possible, and as I also indicated in a recent consultation in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it is indeed the case that all political parties in the Folketing, apart from one, the Liberal Alliance, have clearly indicated that they want to participate in this. So I look forward to the negotiations that will start when we are ready for it, and believe me, it will not be at the end of this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143216	When's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143225	Thank you. This is probably going to happen again in the new year. That is my expectation, but it is clear that we will, of course, also make a clear statement about it at some point. We will be on the other side of a Finance Act before we get there, and the questioner will have no doubt as to when it will be. But I am very pleased that the questioner is showing the interest that is here. It is essential that there is an interest in investment throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143302	I look forward to the negotiations getting under way. I am not looking forward to them as it is the third Limfjord connection itself, because the North Jutlanders are simply queuing both morning and afternoon to a degree which certainly does not attract the industry we need north of the fjord. So I thank the Minister for his commitment to get the negotiations under way, and I think that this should happen the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143330	Thank you for that statement. I hope, of course, that the Left, which is a responsible party, will play a part in fulfilling the task of creating a broad infrastructure agreement. I think that is an irresponsible way of going about infrastructure investment. I believe that infrastructure investments should be based on broad conciliation, as should the current conciliation, which expires in 2020 and which was concluded in 2009, and in which both our parties are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143404	Thank you for that and we will continue with another question to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143409	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143411	Thank you for that, President. And the question is this: does the Minister understand the concern raised by Dansk Byggeri that the government's decision to start over negotiating an infrastructure agreement risks losing investment and jobs in the construction industry in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143432	Thank you for the question. I fully understand that the construction industry is looking for an infrastructure plan which is broadly based and which can clarify the future framework. Let me therefore begin by explaining why it is even necessary to negotiate a new infrastructure agreement, because that is a significant part of the explanation behind the uncertainty that the construction industry is experiencing. After all, the need for a new plan is the result of the fact that the questioner's own party, together with the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, decided as a government to enter into a narrow agreement with the Danish People's Party. I'm not going to make the same mistake, i.e. make a narrow deal that can't survive the elections. And that is why it is important to me that a future infrastructure agreement be based on as broad a majority in the Folketing as possible. Contrary to what the previous government delivered, I and the new government want to conclude a broad-based agreement that can hold even if government had to change in the process. Of course, I hope it does not, but that requires us to negotiate a new agreement. With long-term and broad planning of the infrastructure, there will be a stable framework and tranquillity around the infrastructure projects which we jointly prioritise in the Folketing. I think this is absolutely necessary, indeed, it is a mandatory ambition to have as the country's Minister for Transport. I also understand that the approach clearly expressed by the construction industry is the approach that the construction industry also prefers. And I have also noted that the questioner himself has indicated on several occasions that he would like us to find each other in a broad agreement, and I will of course look very much forward to doing so, because I want broad agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143623	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143625	Thank you for your answer. I can confirm that the Left is seeking a broad agreement. We are going for a long-term agreement and we are going to meet the traffic needs that have been identified around the country and that were reflected in the blue agreement from before the elections, which has now been cancelled. We're also trying to avoid these big fluctuations in the construction industry's tasks, because they mean that you're going up and down; a vacuum suddenly arises which means that you have to fire skilled employees. That is actually the situation that has arisen now. I have to correct the Minister because we would actually have liked to have had a broad agreement before the elections, but there is something that divides us, and that is the notorious gap of 15 billion. kr. In the Train Fund DK, which the rest of us do not want to put our backs on; it is among other things. This lane down through East Jutland. The Social Democratic Party is bound by an agreement with, among other things. Enhedslisten and SF, which hold it very firmly. So that is why the Social Democracy did not enter into an agreement before the elections, and we were really sorry by the Left. Now the elections are over, and now we have to look ahead. And there I can give an undertaking that we are prepared to negotiate a broad agreement. But there are some things that worry me anyway. This applies, firstly, to the government's draft budget, which has taken 2 billion. kr. left by the framework we should have used for better roads in Denmark. Will the Minister comment on why some money has actually been taken in advance? It's like the wrong way when we know the needs around. Secondly, how to deal with the emerging gap of 15 billion. kr. in Togfonden DK, which among other things. Enhedslisten hold on to a lot? Thirdly, when we talk about a broad agreement: how does the Minister think we can deal with the support party Enhedslisten's demand that a single metre more motorway should not be built in Denmark? Then it looks a little heavy with this very broad agreement, because there's a need for several meters of motorway not so that we have to plaster all meadows and cut to, but we need more highways around Denmark. How will the Minister reconcile these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143826	Well, that's why I'm the minister and I have to try to reconcile the difficult tasks. I would like to make an effort to do so and, as the questioner will be aware, I also spend quite a lot of time searching for opportunities, among other things. by going around the country and looking at what is needed, among other things. together with the rapporteur himself, because I think it is crucial to find broad agreements. In relation to what the framework might be for a future investment plan, I do not think it should be pre-discounted at this stage. When the government presents a proposal, it will also be a question of what the overall framework will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143907	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143909	Thank you. I have to commend the Minister for going out on these field visits, where you go out in the country and look at the conditions. It's worth it we do it, both the Minister and the MPs, so keep doing it. However, I believe that we obviously have a common challenge in providing the economy to meet the needs that exist. One can only look at the blue agreement, because there we had just brought with us the things that are urgently necessary part of the country for the part of the country. So it's our hope that we can build on it, but the concern is that we need some money in advance, especially if we're going to close this gap of 15 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023143945	I can promise the rapporteur that I will continue to make field visits because I share the view that it is important. I can't promise to reach around all the corners of Denmark now on this side of New Year's, but I'm going to reach as much as possible. With regard to the framework, as I said, I will come back to it, but I should like to mention here that I have set in motion a servicing of the railway, because I would like to be sure that there are no unresolved tasks on that point, because we are, among other things, in the process of doing so. A very comprehensive system of signals, which is very late, and we must be absolutely sure of achieving this too; all parties must also be interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144023	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144025	Thank you. As I said, we have to play together on this, and I can inform the Minister that we in the Committee on Transport have a lot of focus on this investment plan. And one of the things we want to help the Minister to drill out is the huge gains for society that lie waiting if we get to work on these projects. In addition to securing employment in the construction industry, there are some gains in terms of minor losses to congestion. That's a lot of billions of dollars, and we must have bored out what it really costs society. Does the Minister not also agree that there are some gains in the supply of labour, that is to say that the supply of labour is increasing, that there are more hands to the Danish labour market if we build some of these roads that are badly needed, so that we save time between home and work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144105	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144107	In any case, it is clear that if you can minimize congestion, you can also minimize the time people are sitting on the roads. In the end, we cannot, fortunately, here in the Danish Parliament, be tempted to say whether this means that people will have more free time or more working hours. But there is no doubt that minimising congestion also has a social benefit, and that is also why we include it as such in the calculation models underlying the socio-economic assessments of construction projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144137	We thank the Minister for Transport. I have to inform you that by Marcus Knuth (V) under No. 29 questions put to the Minister for Children and Education (Question No. S 166) is deleted at the request of the author. We are going back a little on the question of Question 20 to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. The question has been asked by Mrs Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144203	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144206	Thank you very much. And welcome to the Minister better late than never. This is an important area, so of course I am happy to wait for the Minister. Does the Minister agree that the norm between men and women in the country's ghetto regions is a problem of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144221	Thanks for the question, and I'm sorry I'm late. You had come a little ahead of the calculated schedule here, but we ran forward and reached the target. And I am glad to be able to answer yes to the question put by the questioner here. Fortunately, many minority ethnic women and men have adopted Danish equality values, but there is a minority in which the value of gender equality has not been realised. It is, of course, as I see it, a problem of equality when one in five minority ethnic men thinks that men should have the last word in the home, and that more than one in six thinks that if a woman wears challenging clothes, she is responsible for a sexual abuse herself, and that only half of them believe that homosexuality should be accepted in Danish society. And I also think that it is a problem of equality when the experience of social control by new Danish women is very much linked to whether they live in an area with many residents with immigrant backgrounds. And it is also a problem of equality when three out of four women with a non-western background in a exposed residential area are not in work. So we are faced with a freedom struggle in this area, which requires a fight with the standards that still exist in certain environments. That is why we must work to ensure that more people become part of the Danish community, where we share the same fundamental values and, as the questioner also well knows, we have set aside money in a broad circle of parties for a rights campaign aimed at these environments that provide knowledge of equality and inspiration to act differently. There has been a great demand for these activities, which is why we have just given priority to providing more funds so that efforts can be strengthened and sustained by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144418	Thank you very much. I can only agree with the Minister on that concern about all the figures. I would have mentioned the study carried out by Als Research in 2014 which points out just how big a problem it is in certain ethnic minority communities. The minister came up with a lot of numbers, so I don't want to go through it again at all. It is quite true that our rights campaign, which has been on the table since 2007, when then Minister for Gender Equality Lykke Friis launched the rights campaign, has had a great impact on some of the attitudes, mainly among women. But we can see that this has not really worked out, because we see that it does not work out in relation to a great many women, especially from some particular countries, who live in those areas where we also see that there is social control. When it does not get through with those where it is most necessary, it may be that we should try to get some other action going. And there it is that I would like to hear what else the Minister has in mind. For now the rights campaign has run 12 years if not 13 years as far as I know and that hasn't changed the numbers. We can see that seven out of ten women coming from Somalia, Syria or Iraq are out of employment, so there is something more to be done, one will immediately think. And I would like to know whether the Minister has thought about what else can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144602	Of course, I think it is a good thing that our rights campaign is going through in such a way that there is at least an increase in demand for, among other things. What is part of the campaign is courses which inform minority ethnic men and women and also young people about equality issues, including respect for homosexuality and other things. But it is clear that it cannot stand alone. After all, it is a question of ensuring employment and education, because I believe that this is the main way to integration, and we must also take initiatives there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144639	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144641	So, we can see that when the Danish women made their entry and entry into the labour market, gender roles in Denmark really changed. That is where we really began to sign that the sexes were equal because there was economic independence because they were out earning their own money, which gave women a degree of self-confidence and strength. And we can see that in some circles. First of all, I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with me that women's active participation in the labour market contributes to increasing gender equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144722	I fully agree with the questioner on this. It's the best way to integrate, it's education, it's employment, and then, of course, we have some mixed residential areas. That is also why we in the government will now introduce a duty to contribute 37 hours a week to new entrants and immigrants with integration needs, so that they will play an active role in society with employment in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144753	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144754	I'm glad. However, when we can see that the Prime Minister has used it very much in the election campaign, namely that we have a group of women that we do not want to accept outside the community or have this lack of equality, we also heard in the opening debate that the Prime Minister pointed out this group, I think it is a little worrying that the Minister for Gender Equality says that there is nothing in the area of equality, because this is, for me and for the Left, first and foremost a problem of equality before it is an integration problem or an employment problem. And I am a little sorry that every time I try to address this issue, the Minister refers me to other ministries. But I want to know, is there anything coming? Can we look forward to something coming in the area of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144844	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144845	I am a little out of comprehension, because I have answered yes to all the rapporteur's questions. I agree with the rapporteur. And when it comes to employment, which is not my area of responsibility, I would like to say that, in order to ensure that immigrants, women and men, too, have access to our labour market, we want to introduce this 37-hour duty per week for the employment of new arrivals and immigrants with integration needs. It is on that path that we ensure that they become part of society by among others. to get into employment. So, for me, we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144921	Thank you. We thank the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities and Mrs Fatma Øktem. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 26, which is addressed to the Minister for Development Cooperation, and this is put forward by Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144935	Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144936	Thank you for that, President. What does the Minister think about the work of the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunisation, also called GAVI?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023144951	First of all, thank you for the question. The Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunisation, also called GAVI, aims to increase vaccination efforts in the world's poorest countries, and it is absolutely my impression that a very good and good job is being done at GAVI. It is the case that since 2016 almost 200 million children have been immuneised, and you are well on your way to achieving this goal of 300 million children by 2020. So there is no doubt that GAVI is doing a tremendously important job. They do this first and foremost because there are some very large players who support GAVI. There is Britain, there is the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and there is Norway, which delivers about half of GAVI's budget, and it has made a very big impact on GAVI's work. The contribution we have made from Denmark has played a very small role, and what one can say is that the added value Denmark has been able to create in relation to GAVI has been very minimal. Therefore, the discussion was already held back in 2013, when it was decided that the grant to GAVI would be dropped. Then GAVI has been put back on the Finance Act for a short time, where it has been given these 25 million. kr. a year for a period, but it is still the case that the contribution made by Denmark in relation to GAVI is only 0.25 per cent. of GAVI's budget. So it is other countries such as Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands and, in other words, the United Kingdom which are really heavyweights in relation to GAVI's funding. And there it has been the Danish choice to say: We want to focus the efforts we make on health and put the money where Denmark makes a real difference, doing something that other countries are not so focused on. We have increased our funding for the Global Fund, but we also have a strong focus on others. Women's rights. So it is a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145205	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145207	Thank you to the Minister for a very honest answer, and also thank you for clarifying precisely how crucial it is. Because when you talk to various actors throughout the developing world, there is no doubt that the consequences of non-vaccinations against the most infectious diseases are simply fatal. We see epidemics of diseases that could have been prevented, and that is why it is an enormously important effort. After all, Denmark was one of the six states which, back in the year 2000, with enormous enthusiasm, simply founded GAVI. And that is why I would like to have this discussion with the Minister for Development about whether this really is the right way to prioritise. Because it is quite true that the 25 million. kr. a year, which the Danish state contributes to the GAVI work is a small contribution compared to how much is actually done in developing countries. That is true, but it is nevertheless an extremely important signal that we are sending as a country and as a very, very active player in relation to the whole establishment of it. It matters whether Denmark suddenly says: Now we withdraw the support. So I would like to hear the Minister's political attitude to the message that as Minister for Development we should now be the minister who says: 'Oh, we do not think it is important anymore that Denmark supports with everything else equal in the Minister's large budget small amount, which has an enormous impact on what it is for some donor countries that ensure that the world's children are covered by important emergency vaccines.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145349	First of all, the hat of Mrs Karen Ellemann's great commitment to this matter. It is not the case that Denmark suddenly withdraws support. It has been the case that it has always been in the cards that it was something that could be considered on an ongoing basis. And we have inspired other countries to get on board very strongly in GAVI's work, so there is a great interest in supporting GAVI, and there is good sense in spending taxpayers' money where we can then go in and create commitment where there is not the same interest in backing up. That's why we focus our efforts. That is why we have put more effort into the Global Fund, which is, after all, about HIV, AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, but also in relation to the World Health Organisation, the WHO, in relation to action on maternal and child health and so on, and so goes in some places where there is not the same tribulation to back up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145442	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145443	But this is that in the government's draft budget we can actually see that it has been chosen to draw the support forward. Because, in the time of the previous government, it was given priority, in other words, a contribution of 25 million. kr. annually, as promised, from 2018 and the following 3 years. That is why it is true, both in the overall budget of the Minister for Development and in the large contribution, that it is a small amount, but nevertheless very important. So my question is: will the Minister reconsider?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145517	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145518	As I said, it was just agreed when it was decided to support GAVI over a number of years, that it was something that had to be decided every year, so that we are always careful how we spend the Danish taxpayers' money most optimally. And since there are now a number of other countries that are committed very strongly in GAVI, but a lack of support for other areas, it makes sense that Denmark moves focus to where we can make a difference and where we can inspire others in the same way as we did with GAVI in the first place. But now there are other countries that are motivated to do so, and then we can jump over, among other things. Women and children in other areas where we can support and make the difference that we unfortunately cannot make in this GAVI or, fortunately, because some others are backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145608	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145609	But the Minister makes it sound like the 25 million. kr., which is the Danish contribution, is a small share, and it is in the big context, but it is of the utmost importance that we, as a donor country, continue to be involved, albeit with a small amount of money. Oh, my gosh, now all of a sudden, Denmark will no longer support child vaccination programs. It is politically problematic, it is difficult for our reputation, the Danish reputation in all the development work. What does the Minister think?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145646	Fortunately, Denmark has a very strong reputation, including in this area, and we continue to have that. And there's a broad understanding that in a situation where, fortunately, there's very strong support for GAVI, and when Denmark alone contributes with these 0.25 percent. of the budget, then throws us into places where there is not the same focus. Denmark is among the few countries in the world that really make a big difference in relation to women's rights, in relation to children in other areas, and there is a great understanding that Denmark then focuses its efforts there, because there we can make a difference, and I think that is worth it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145723	We thank the Minister for Development Cooperation and Mrs Karen Ellemann. We shall now proceed to the next question, Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). S This is for the Minister for Children and Education, and the question has been asked by Mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145739	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145741	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for showing up. The question is: Will the Minister explain what she means by "manspaining" and why it was a relevant answer to a citizen in a discussion about free schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145756	I would certainly like to reply to that. I read up in answer to the first part of the question: the concept is defined as explaining something to someone, usually a man to a woman, in a way that is considered patronizing or despicable. ▪ What the citizen in question had written was: Oh, how cool it could be if you got better into things. I mean, the citizen in question can't know if I have, maybe I did; it could be that I didn't have. The citizen knows nothing about this, and that means that the citizen just takes for granted that I do not have. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145833	So the Minister continues to believe that this was a relevant response to a citizen in a discussion about free schools, I must understand. I find it difficult to understand why gender should be involved in a discussion and that it is thus suggested that a citizen who wrote to the Minister on Twitter replied in a certain way because of his gender. The citizen who wrote to the Minister had not himself involved gender in the discussion, but the Minister makes it a matter of gender. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145904	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145905	No, it is actually the questioner who makes it a question of gender. So let me repeat, read out what it says: explaining something to someone, usually a man to a woman, in a way that is considered condescending or despicable. In fact, I have also experienced and it was actually, especially when I was younger, like 20 years ago, perhaps when I attended political debates • that some who were older than me did the same. It could be a woman, it could be a man. But there they also used what is called mansplaining, that is to say, just to start from the fact that because you were younger, you probably wouldn't have gotten into things. So I haven't really brought gender into it. It is true that in the definition it is often from a man to a woman, but it could also be from a woman to a woman or from a transsexual to a homosexual or to a beautician or something else. So I actually think it is the questioner who brings gender into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023145956	So the Minister says about the term mansplaining that it might as well be a woman that was accused of mansplaining. Is that what the Minister is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150009	That's exactly right. I can read it again: • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • explaining something to someone, usually a man to a woman... This means that it may also be anything other than from a man to a woman; it may also be from a woman to a woman, but it may often be from a man to a woman, but it may also be in other situations. I have known the concept for an incredibly short time, I would like to say, and I wrote it on Twitter when I wrote it. It may be that I am the one who is incredibly old-fashioned and therefore has just not caught that it is apparently something everyone is talking about, so I had known the concept for very, very short time. The concept is, of course, invented because there are some women who think that it is typically some men, but in the concept lies that it may also be in other situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150049	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150051	I think it would have been a better response from the Minister just to say that it was a mistake of the Minister gratuitous to include gender in a discussion and to start trying to shut down citizens by referring to their gender and thus implying that if you are a man, you are not allowed to criticise the Minister. The minister says that it was the citizen in question, Casper Astrup, who involved gender in the discussion. He didn't. There was nothing in what he wrote about gender. I like the Minister's own comment here. It's the smart thing that you can do it and then the minister gets a message on her phone about where it was written and then she can look for herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150133	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150134	I did not say that it was the questioner of Twitter who suggested that there was gender involved. I said that was the questioner, that is. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who puts pretty into the conversation. It is absolutely true that on Twitter there was nothing about gender. The word mansplaining is a little, like if I say, "You don't say." So, even if a man originally comes from something with a man, there is no gender in it either. So it's just to say that it's true that the word mansplaining I've been told, and I can also read that when I look up, what it means is originally something that is based on something with women and men, and that it's typically men who say something to women. However, as I said, I have also experienced that it was women who were typically older than myself who did exactly the same thing. So I think what was said at the beginning of the tweet was condescending and that it was therefore appropriate to respond in the way I did? Yeah, I think it's condescending, and I don't really want the way to debate Twitter. So I thought it was a very relevant way of answering.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150224	Thank you. We move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Children and Education, and the question has been asked by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150237	Thank you. Does the Minister agree that many young people with special needs do not receive a relevant stu offer and what initiatives will the Minister take against this background, cf. • Young people with disabilities are discriminated against in the education system from 12 September 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150300	The minister has two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150301	Thank you for the question. I would like to say at the outset that the questioner has also brought up exactly the studio before me in the past as a minister. In fact, it was one of the first that the Danish People's Party took to the table, and I have promised the Danish People's Party and others, who are very interested in the studio, that we will also have a rather in-depth discussion of and, moreover, if we get there, negotiations on the room. For the things that the Danish People's Party has drawn attention to, I think are completely relevant and, of course, we have to go in and look at this. There is an evaluation from 2017, which shows that parts of what is being done around the studio are very good, and something that has been taken with kiss-hand by students, parents and municipalities, but there are also some things that are not working, and these are also some of the things that are being brought up in relation to DR's features. So I am also very pleased that the Danish People's Party is persistently sticking to the fact that we need to look at these issues. For of course, it must be possible for all young people in Denmark to have a proper youth education of a high quality, and here we have not yet achieved our goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150407	Thank you for your answer. I do not really think there will be an answer to the question. The question was that in connection with this broadcast there was a girl, Maria Ditlevsen, who wanted to have an agricultural education. She was allowed to go for a year on what is called Havredal Practical Degrees in Viborg Municipality, and there she was really happy to go. After the clarification process, Silkeborg Municipality decides that they themselves have an offer that she could make. The offer that Silkeborg Municipality has takes place primarily in a classroom where she should sit, and what she really needs is to get out and move and get out and do something and get out and have something to do with these animals. I have no doubt that when the Municipality of Silkeborg does so, it is of course about money. One offer that she would like to make is relatively expensive, and the other offer is something they have made themselves, and it probably costs only a fraction of what she would like to go on. However, when I ask whether the Minister does not agree that she should have had the second offer, it is also about the fact that, if she is going to have a chance to come out and have a life afterwards, she could contribute in society and, in fact, at that stage be quite cynically far, much cheaper for society in the long run, then should have the offer that she really wants. Isn't that right? Can the Minister not confirm that? A little ahead of us having these discussions, and I know that I have received the answer in the past, that we will have them at the end of the year, it might also be nice to have a clear statement from the Minister that this way we will have to find a way to make sure that Maria got the right offer, so that she can actually get the good life that she, I am sure, will be able to get with the right offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150553	I really think I replied because the question is: does the Minister agree that many young people with special needs do not get a relevant stu offer? Does the Minister agree with that? Yes, I agree. What will the Minister do against this background? There the Minister will convene negotiations at the end of the year so that we can get closer. If I am not going to reply to the specific case, it is because there may be all kinds of conditions for the specific girl, and on this point I am the highest authority in the country, and that is to say, if I make a very clear statement on whether or not we have done it right or wrong in this particular case, then I do not think that is fair. But on the question that is being asked, I would like to say: yes, I think there are young people who do not get the relevant offer. Could that be the case for her here? Yes, it could, but I would rather not take a specific position on that. What am I gonna do? I'd rather sit down at a table and get this done so that people get a relevant education offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150645	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150646	Thank you. I understand the Minister's explanation as to why the answer might have been a little weaver, and that is fair enough in itself. However, what I would like to confirm is that the Minister agrees with what we, I would say, have also jointly written in a report back from 2018, in which it is actually the Minister himself who is chairing the committee, so that something needs to be done about this, that a more uniform quality of the stu offers must be ensured and that the right offers must also be made. So the Minister agrees that we must:
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150728	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150729	You can answer that incredibly briefly: Yes. And I agree with the things that we wrote together in this regard and that I have put my name under in 2018. I think that is the purpose of the things we have to do at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150742	I can't wait to get started on that. In addition to making the right offer, it is also very much about, as we wrote in that report at the time, that today, according to the report that the Minister himself mentioned earlier, there are no rules for a stu offer. There is no one who controls them, there is no one who ensures that they comply with just quite common requirements. So I also hope that the Minister will confirm that we must find a solution to that. How do we ensure that stu offers are of a quality so that we can also be familiar with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150816	I believe that this part of our educational provision has been dealt with far too stepmotherly. I can also point to other parts of our educational provision where I think it is the same; it could be adult and continuing training, and it could also be when we talk about the free vocational schools. There's the living room. These are simply some areas of our education sector which I think have received far too little attention, and one could not imagine the same thing with primary school as what is happening here, because the parents of children in primary school would simply not tolerate that. It would take less than a week, and then the entire Palace Square would be filled with parents of children in primary school. Being parents of a child with disabilities is a huge job, and therefore the resources to protest when things are not right, perhaps not as big as they are for everyone else. So I fully agree that something needs to be done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150900	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister for Children and Education. So we move on to Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 138, addressed to the Minister for Education and Research by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150916	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150918	Thank you. What concrete initiatives will the Minister take to preserve Danish as a research language according to the Minister's answer to questions S 96 from the parliamentary year 2018-19, 2nd session?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150931	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150933	Thank you for the question. As I also expressed in the written reply to which the honourable Member refers, I am concerned that Danish research is at the very highest international level. It will also mean that...
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150950	I'm sorry, there's no microphone, so we're gonna have to get some sound on the minister first. Here you go again, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023150956	Great. Thank you for the question. As I also expressed in the written reply to which the honourable Member refers, I am concerned that Danish research is at the very highest international level. It's good for our country. This will often mean that it will have to be produced in an international cooperation where it is discussed with international peers and published in the most recognised scientific journals. And in most cases this will mean publication in English. I believe that it is fundamentally positive that our researchers are thus part of international research environments, and I believe that this is an essential condition for our international excellence research. But at the same time it is important that Danish stands strong in the universities and that there is continued communication in Danish. I will therefore follow developments in this area. I am concerned about it, but here and now I do not see a need for us to take concrete initiatives to increase the share of scientific articles in Danish. As I also expressed in my previous reply, I believe that it takes an independent effort to disseminate research to society, regardless of whether the original research article was written in Danish or English. Here it is my clear impression that researchers in Denmark are both interested in and skilled in communicating their research in Danish to the Danes, and that they do so in many different media and formats. And I am very pleased about that, because it is absolutely crucial that the research should come out and benefit Danish society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151130	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151132	Thank you for your answer. It does not say much more than the reply which the Minister had already given in writing. I would like to refer to a report from the Education and Research Committee of 20 March 2018, in which a majority, among others. The Social Democrats, DF and the previous government agreed on the importance of maintaining Danish as a language of communication and teaching as well as a scientific language in higher education institutions. The majority want to make up for the loss of language for the Danish language, which the Danish Language Board describes as the death spiral of languages, and where the spiral starts in higher education. The majority look with concern at the development of the many English-language courses and therefore invites the Minister to take into account in the forthcoming proposal how to ensure in future that the Danish language is maintained and strengthened as a scientific language both in teaching and in dissemination. The project will also address issues such as how to ensure that Danish teaching continues in all scientific fields, how to ensure that research and its results are still communicated in Danish, and how to ensure that concepts and terms are created in Danish. I should like to ask the Minister what specific initiatives the Minister intends to take to ensure that this is done. For as the Danish Language Board also describes it, what they call the spiral of death, the spiral of death of language, starts at the highest level. If there is no language in Danish to talk about different scientific concepts and research, it disappears from the language and then the language becomes poorer over time. So we agreed in spring 2018 that something had to be done about it. And now the Minister is sitting as Minister and has the opportunity to address this, so is it not something that we should get to grips with together?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151328	Thank you. We still agree on that. It is also my impression that universities are aware of the need to speak both Danish and English and to have a balance between the two. It is a balance because, on the one hand, we need world-class researchers who can cooperate with international research environments and find something that goes far beyond the borders of our country. It strengthens our country. It strengthens Danish research and it is important. But communicating it in Danish is also important if it is to contribute to Danish society. And that's why I'm preoccupied with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151408-2	Well, it's nice that the minister is preoccupied with it. And I kind of agree that science across the world is primarily in English. So, of course, you have to be able to behave in English as well. But this is, of course, about how we ensure that the Danish language can still be used away and how it can be maintained. And that is why I really would like to ask the Minister, also in relation to the report from the past, which calls for specific action to be taken to secure Danish in all fields of research: will the Minister really not take any initiatives at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151446	I'd like to follow this. I'd like to listen to everything that's coming. It is my impression that all universities have a language strategy and that a majority if you compare university education across the country, is still in Danish. The study of the language strategy that my predecessor sent to the Danish Parliament in early 2019 shows that these things are the focus of attention. I would like to follow it, but I do not see the need for us to do anything quite concrete here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151518	I would say that the Danish People's Party and I actually see a need to do something. A concrete example, where we might then meet and do something, could be textbooks in Danish. Writing textbooks today does not give any credit. Being a good teacher does not give much credit either. Writing research articles in English gives credit. How do we ensure that we also get the young researchers to write the textbooks that we need to communicate that knowledge to the Danish students in Danish? Can we agree that it should be recognised that it should provide some kind of merit, so that they are actually urged to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151559	I would like to thank the questioner for the commitment and dedication to ensure that the Danish language also lives in the future. All the specific examples and recordings that the questioner has, I would like to take part in the debate to see what part of it would make sense to proceed with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151619	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. 153, which is also addressed to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151633	The question has been asked by Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and there is a questioner, and that is Mrs Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151640	Thank you. That is a very brief and precise question I would like to put to the Minister today. It sounds like this: Does the Minister believe that universities' humanist and social science faculties can maintain the same quality of teaching without a continuation of the taximeter vow?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151703	That is a yes/no question. Thank you. You could spend two minutes on that. You can't do it, too. No, I think that making huge savings will be a quality loss.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151719	That's honest talk. It is not surprising to me that the Minister is fortunately so honest, because everything else would also be completely wrong. However, what only puzzles me is that the Minister, the week before the autumn break, when I asked the Minister, stressed that the Minister was proud of the draft budget put forward by the Socialist Government. That is why it really surprises me that the Minister is standing here quite openly and frankly saying that the draft budget she is in charge of means that we will have lower university education. I'm still surprised. This then leads me to ask how the Minister feels at the heart of his heart chamber when one can read headline after headline in the direction of the social democrats' breach of the taximeter vow to humanist and social science education becoming a disaster for universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151832	I feel as deep into the heart, as I am now being asked, that I had seen that we had had all 1.1 billion. kr. to loop the previous government's savings on education. I'm afraid we didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151851	Now it's the same song that's singing as the last time we discussed this. Then I just have to say, and without it even sounding like a lesson to the Minister, because that would of course be very, very remote to me, that there was no saving on the part of the previous government. On the contrary, it was actually with the Left leading the way that there was a taximeter lift for humanist and social science education, and we continued this taximeter lift. We also made it clear in the election campaign that we would continue to do so if we were given the opportunity to do so. I'm afraid we didn't. On the other hand, the minister's party, which now has government responsibility, did so. This means, unfortunately, that we have the prospect of a disastrous deterioration in the quality of humanist and social science university education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151938	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023151939	I now believe that leaving as massive a cliff as it is called in finance ministers' language is quite irresponsible on the part of the previous government. One could easily have filled up so that there wasn't that cliff, and provided security for these educations in the years to come if one really cared about it. You haven't been. Now a meter has been left which has not been carried over over the years and therefore lapses. As I said, I wish we had had enough crowns and ears to cancel all the savings from the previous government. I'm afraid we haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152018	Thank you. Then we move on to the co-questioner, Mrs Bjerre, who has one minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152025	Thank you. The reason why I have joined the question is that I think the question is really important for North Jutland, where both the Minister and myself have been elected. The fact that you do not continue the taximeter lift hits Aalborg University really hard. The Rector of Aalborg University, Per Michael Johansen, has himself said that this means that you will be missing a larger amount than with the re-priority contribution. A total of 37 million will be missing from the university. kr., and you are in an untenable situation if you do not find the money to carry on the taximeter lift. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what the Minister is replying to the University of Aalborg and whether the Minister recognises that the government's policy goes beyond its quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152111	The Minister also has one minute to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152114	I see education as an investment. I would have been delighted if we could have gone even further in terms of both eliminating savings and making new investment in education with this financial law. To that there are two things to say: you cannot do everything from day one, especially when the savings are so massive from the previous government. But there is also still a large bag of money on the table, which is not yet distributed and which is now being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152141	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152144	I simply do not understand the Minister saying that these are savings. This taximeter lift has never been permanent. This has been something that the then government led to continue since 2009, and it has been continued since 2009. The government could have just carried on with this taximeter lift. Why hasn't the government done that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152203	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152204	Because we have inherited savings for 1.1 billion. kr. and we have not had the money to fill up in relation to all of them, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152213	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152216	I am in favour of the Minister's area being a large area, but it would now be appropriate for the Minister to acknowledge that we did not save on human and social science education, as the Minister proposes. And when the minister talks about a cliff, hopefully the Minister knows very well that it has been a 1-year grant. When the Minister then says that it could easily have been filled up, why does the Minister not do so if it is so easy to make it as a multiannual appropriation? I think that would suit the Minister instead of standing here accusing us of making savings. After all, it is the Minister who is making a saving and she is even proud of it. I must confess I'm somewhat puzzled about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152259	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152300	I understand that the questioner as a member of the previous government is getting a little agitated. Because it would have been possible to provide security for these courses over the years if you wanted to. The previous government did not choose that. Along with a number of other savings on training, among others. The total amount of the re-priority contribution is 1.1 billion. kr. We've found money for 800 million. kr. by them. That's a lot. I would have loved it if we could have moved on. I hope we will be able to do so in what is being negotiated now, and indeed in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152335	Thank you. We move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for Education and Research and also to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152343	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152345	Now I am curious if I get an answer from the same groove again that I got when I asked this question last, because there is, of course, not much readiness to enter into a dialogue. But the question is: how will the Minister ensure that the cost to migrant workers does not exceed 442 million? kr. Annually before tax and backflow, according to the agreement of the Su-Create from 2013?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152414	On the contrary, my only answer is dialogue. For what I answered last time to the same question, and which I would also like to answer today, is precisely: we have committed ourselves to a su-conciliation in a su-conference where we sit together. That is also where the debate must be held, and I insist on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152437	But it's really good, after all! Unfortunately, we did not really get an answer when I asked the question last time, which is why I ask it again, because it actually seems to me that the minister does not really know what needs to be done in this area, and that actually worries me. For I see it as a contradiction that the Minister, in the paper of understanding made with the government's support parties, is proposing to remove the ceiling, as it is called, of English-language students. After all, it was precisely an initiative launched by the former Minister for Research to comply with the safeguard rules which the dispute settlement body is obliged to find if it meets the ceiling set out in the agreement. And it worries me that the Minister is simply setting out to remove that limitation for English-speaking students without having an eye on what other safeguards should then be replaced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152553	I understand that the questioner would very much like me to give a very concrete answer to what we are going to do. However, as I said, even when we were here two weeks ago, this is an issue that must be discussed in the Su conciliation circle, but which, at the same time, too, and I think the questioner will agree with that when we discuss it jointly, it can be resolved better than it was resolved under the previous government; because we have areas where our companies are crying out for labour, and I think that can be done less squarely than we did. That is why, in the first instance, later in the autumn, I shall be discussing the expenditure on migrant workers and English-language training with the conciliation group.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152636	That sounds very good, but, as I said, what worries me is that, according to the understanding paper, the limitation of English-language students, which was the answer that was reached in the conciliation circle as a safeguard against increasing Su-expenditure on migrant workers, will be removed. I am concerned that the Minister is merely saying that we must discuss this without the Minister himself having any idea what should replace the safeguard clause introduced by the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152719-2	I can only assure the questioner that I have great respect for the settlement. I have great respect for that conciliation circle, and I will not run away from it on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152734	Does this mean that I have to understand that what is in the understanding paper on the removal of what is known as the ceiling on English-language students is not going to happen, but that, of course, the safeguard clause introduced by the previous government in cooperation with the Su-conciliation Group is being maintained, according to what the Minister said?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152758	What was done, we can do more wisely, and I think we can do that together, and I would like to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152807	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research and to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 136 for the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is what Mrs Fatma Øktem has said. I'm told she's on her way, so we're just interrupting the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152933	It's going a little fast today, but you gotta keep an eye on time. That's Mrs Fatma Øktem. Please put the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023152948	Thank you very much. My question to the Minister for Integration is this: what initiatives will the Minister take to ensure that more immigrant women become part of the Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153002	I would like to start by signing off on the question and on the questioner's interest in the active participation of immigrant women in the community at home. It is also a subject which I am so concerned about. Fortunately, things are actually moving forward when it comes to integration into the labour market. If we look at the newcomers and their families together, the proportion working after 3 years in Denmark has risen from 29 per cent. in the first quarter of 2015 to 60%. in the second quarter of 2019; but it is when it comes to men. Because it has actually only risen from 7%. 19 per cent. in the corresponding period for women, which is after three years in Denmark. This is, of course, a positive development, but it is still very unsatisfactory when it comes to women who have come here as refugees and as family members of refugees. An essential precondition for changing this trend and bringing more women into the labour market is that we maintain, I would estimate, a relatively tight control of the influx, because if there are too many new ones, it may be more difficult to integrate those who have already come here. And then I do not think we have been good enough to make demands that when you come to Denmark, both men and women participate in the labour market. And that is why I would like to stress that it is important, not least for the children it is in fact mostly there, my thoughts are that both Mom and Dad go to work. The government will therefore work with a targeted approach to improving integration. We are preparing annual action plans to set a direction for the work, and the first plan I expect to have ready in the coming year. However, I would like to say a little now about what we are considering, which could strengthen the integration of women. For example: We are considering introducing a duty for all new arrivals to deliver an effort equivalent to a 37-hour working week. The starting point must therefore be that you do not come up for an integration programme of 37 hours, nor will you get any benefit for the hours you have not appeared. So if you're gonna meet at 8:00... 7:00 a.m. and I'll be there at 7:00 a.m. 9.00, there is no benefit for the first few hours • a workplace logic instead of a service logic. Fourth Vice-President Thank you! In addition, I also have a few other suggestions, but I will deal with them in my second answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153217	Thank you very much. I could not agree more with the Minister that it is true that we have seen an increase in the number of refugees and immigrants entering the labour market, but with regard to women the figures look very modest. Statistics Denmark have had some figures showing that for women from primarily Syria, Iraq, Somalia and Lebanon, 7 out of 10 are outside the labour market. So it's really, really a lot of people. The Minister had a speech, an interview back in January, where I thought there were some very good considerations about the area of integration. And there was hardly any limit to what the Minister would do to get everyone in, and no one should be outside. For example: The first point was: when immigrants only half-heartedly acquire the language, their worries and dreams disappear from the joint conversation, and that does not work, because that is never how they become citizens. I find that interesting, and to stay at the first point I would like to ask you something. Now the Minister mentions this with the demand for the 37 hours, and I think that is fine, but the Minister also says that this applies to new arrivals. The problems we have in certain areas, i.e. in the ghetto regions, are not really about any of the new arrivals, because some have lived where it has become a norm and where children grow up in it. So I would like to ask a little more about it: all those who are not here wholeheartedly what are you going to do about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153400	I think this is a totally relevant discussion, because it is some people who have come here and who have been on passive public support for many years and where it has become the norm and culture, and hence the culture that is passed on to the next generation, that money is something that comes from the municipality, and it is not something that comes up in the morning because you have got up and walked out the door with a lunch under your arm. That's the last thing we're going to. If you, for example, In the case of integration basic training, it can now be used by newcomers. But why only newcomers, for it proves to be a success? I would like to discuss this with the social partners, because perhaps some of those who have been here for many years could also have the opportunity to take advantage of it, which we can see is a success.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153442	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153443	It's fine. I would like to move on to some of the points in the interview I mentioned earlier, which I very much agreed with, where the Minister says: people must support themselves. Now I would like to ask a very direct and very specific question: does the Minister believe that the economy is also an incentive for these women to enter the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153506	Yes, it is not only economics, but I am quite convinced that it is also part of the discussion. We would just like to stress from the government that it must also be balanced against the fact that it is often also families where there are children; and we must ensure that those children do not grow up with great deprivation, and ensure that they have the opportunity to live what I would regard as a normal child's life in Denmark. However, we have no intention of pushing the benefits back to what they were before the integration allowance and the ceiling on cash benefits were introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153540	I'm really glad to hear that. I know that the government has some support parties that would like to see them removed, so it is reassuring to hear the Minister say that there are no plans to do so. In spite of this, however, the Minister for Employment makes a countermove to what the Minister says. It is true that there are some children who grow up in poverty or at least have something less, but is this what gets children out of poverty? In other words, the Minister has repeatedly said that this is a benefit that means that children do not grow up in poverty. Is this the way to solve it, i.e. by providing higher benefits? If economic incentives are important, does the Minister really believe that this is the right way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153627	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153629	We do not think it is the right way to turn the benefits back to the level that existed before the integration benefit was introduced, but we believe that the levels of benefits that the previous government had were too low because there were too many children who had too much deprivation. In fact, the recent reduction in the benefits of integration had not even entered into force, because it was only due to enter into force here on 1 January, and that would be further down. We cannot support this on the part of the government, and that is why we have agreed a temporary grant for families with children who are on the lowest benefits, and then, after the performance commission has completed a job sometime next year, we will come up with a suggestion as to how the whole benefit system should be linked.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153709	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mrs Fatma Øktem. The questioner is Mrs. Heidi Bank, and that is Question No. 174.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153725	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153730	Does the Minister agree that if we are to succeed in the fight against parallel societies, and if Denmark is to be free of ghettos by 2030, then it requires a multi-legged effort, and that this includes: do we need initiatives in the areas of housing, employment and justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153800	The Minister for Two Minutes' Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153808	The questioner for two minutes of questioning.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153811	Such a clear answer is wonderful, but at the same time I have to ask the Minister how he will ensure it, whose focus is solely on housing and housing. How will the Minister, with the responsibility for the ghetto package in particular, ensure that we also get the employment part and how we get children and young people in, so that we do not have the parallel societies, which I believe there is a broad consensus that is not good for Denmark and is not good for children and young people in particular in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153840	The minister for 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153841	After all, social democracy is part of the same agreement as the author's party, and that is where we go to this task in a large number of areas. This is spreading across the housing, employment, children's and more areas, and it is precisely in order to get the overall effort where we ensure both that children enter day-care institutions, ensure increased employment and ensure that we also have efforts in the housing sector. So I fully agree with that, and I also think that we have created a framework in which to create the overall effort across the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153918	The questioner, 1⁄2 minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153919	How do the relaxations that the Social Democratic Party is facing in terms of raising benefits in this area relate to the fact that you have to see this together, that is to say, that we have to ensure that we do not get some ghetto areas where developments go the wrong way, where more people are going to be on passive support?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023153943	Well, I am not responsible for benefits in this way, so I almost have to refer to the Minister for Employment. But basically, as far as I remember, services have not been part of the discussion on the parallel society package. I have sat at all the negotiating meetings that have taken place and took part in all the proceedings. I do not remember, and it may be, I am wrong, but I do not remember that it has been part of the discussion at any time. But it may be that the questioner is better in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154015	Well, the reason we're preoccupied with this service thing is that part of the ghetto package is that we need more people on passive support to have a job so that they can become part of a solid working community, and so there are more in Denmark to pull the load and lift those who can't themselves. And that is why we are also concerned that more children live in homes where they experience that mother and father go to work. And that also applies to the children who come from families who are a little further away from this community. That's why we're preoccupied with this part, and I also think that the Minister for Housing should be concerned about it. Because if we are to succeed with the ghetto package we have, it is not just a matter of housing. It's all these elements that we have to make sure we get taken along.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154106	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154107	I just have to say that I fully agree. I believe that the best way to ensure a good life is to have a job, and I think it is a completely fundamental part and the whole foundation of our welfare society to ensure that people go to work. That is what we are working on in each of the 15 areas. This is what we work with in Tingbjerg, where you build a lot of private homes. This is what we work with in Taastrupgaard, where we have fought for many years, both through demolitions, but also by transforming the area in other ways. Well, that is the basis for everything: to make sure that there are people standing up and walking out the door at 1 p.m. 7 in the morning and go to work every day. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154147	Thank you. And we move on to the next question, which is also addressed to the Minister for Housing and also by Mrs Heidi Bank. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. 176.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154159	Then I can start by thanking you for the previous answer. Well, on to the question: does the Minister agree that it is becoming less attractive for the 1.770 families in the vulnerable residential areas who can look forward to a higher social benefit as a result of government policy, to take a job and that, in isolation, it has a negative effect on solving the ghetto challenges in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154226	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154227	Social democracy is part of the circle behind the agreement on housing initiatives that fight parallel societies. As Minister for Housing, I am responsible for transforming the exposed general housing areas into well-functioning neighbourhoods. On the other hand, I am not responsible for employment. This is my colleague, the Minister for Employment. So on the question of the consequences of temporary family allowances in relation to the economic benefits of working, I have to refer to the Minister for Employment. However, in the area of housing, I can say that the initiatives in the parallel community agreement must contribute to ensuring a more mixed housing mix, and there is also a focus on reducing the concentration of non-worker residents. Therefore, flexible rental requirements have been introduced in vulnerable residential areas which give people with a permanent job or those in education priority to a vacant dwelling. The municipalities are no longer allowed to point out housing seekers on transfer income to vulnerable residential areas. Finally, a ban has been introduced to allow cash benefit recipients to move into the 15 most vulnerable residential areas. I believe that it can be detrimental to children's opportunities for a future of education and employment if they grow up in poverty in a vulnerable residential area. If children are prevented from participating in social events and leisure activities because parents cannot afford to pay even small amounts of money for participation or equipment, they do not join together with children from other social groups who could be good role models in relation to schooling and education. This increases the risk of the development of parallel societies, which we are precisely working to combat.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154347	The concern for us is still with the fact that it has a negative impact on the ghetto regions. However, the fact that we have more people moved from public support to self-reliance and that we have more children who have parents who go to work so that you get a rhythm is one of the things we know when we hear the heads of schools in the areas, works. This rhythm that comes when you have an everyday life where you stand up for Mom and Dad to go to work means something. That is why I need to hear the Minister: what does the Minister think the Ghettoists will look like when they are updated? Does the Minister think that there will be more on public support in these areas or fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154430	If I could look into the future, it might be that I was going down to buy some lottery tickets instead of standing here. But the essence is that I believe that when you see the next ghettoists, as it says on 1 December, we will see that there are more who have entered work a greater percentage of those who live in vulnerable residential areas. But that's just what I think. I don't know about that. But what we can at least see in, among other things. The municipality from which the questioner himself comes is that if you go to Skovgårdsparken, for example, which is on what you call the regular ghetto list, there are more people who have come to work over the last few years. We should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154508	I am really glad that the Minister has noticed that. At the same time, however, I am a little surprised that you can expect more people to have come to work. Because in the government's own financial act, it says precisely that these services will have a negative impact on the supply of work. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154532	I am not a labour market researcher, but my very clear assessment is that the reason why there are more people coming into work, including those in vulnerable residential areas, is that there are generally fewer people in our society who are unemployed, and that has resulted in more people getting into work now. When we roll out the plans that we have made and when we have transformed those areas, as has been done in the Gellerup Park, it is clear that the overall composition of the residents will also change because you get other forms of housing in. But I think that a large part of the reason why people have come to work is that there are also in general more people coming to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154608	I simply have to ask again. When you mention in your own financial act that raising the benefits will have a negative effect, it is not exactly the families that we would like to have come in and become part of the community, the working community, which among other things. doesn't have the incentive where it might be easier to have a family pattern, where e.g. The woman in the family stays home? I simply do not think I have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154643	I am very impressed by the persistence of the questioner here to ask the same question over two questions. However, the essence for me is that what is at stake is employment efforts in relation to cash benefits or whatever else is under the Ministry of Employment. I am dealing with the development of vulnerable residential areas, and that is where we currently tend to see more people entering work, and that is a good thing. And I'm sure when we roll out these 15 development plans, we'll see that there's an even bigger percentage of those who live in these residential areas who will also be in work who will get up every day at 8:00. 7 and go out the door and do a job so that their children can see that this is what is normal to do when you live in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154723	Thank you to the Minister for Housing and Mrs Heidi Bank. We move on to the next question, which is Question No. 139. It's for the Minister of Culture, the questioner is Mr. Kim Valentin, and the co-questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154738	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154741	Thank you. What initiatives will the Minister take to remedy the major municipal differences in the priority of public information?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154755	First of all, thank you very much to the authors, Kim Valentin and Mrs Anni Matthiesen, for focusing on this enormously important area of public education. I myself, as a volunteer in a large number of organizations, which are treasurers and as president, have sat and worked to seek money from the public education funds. So I know how extremely important this is. This is important for our sports life, for our scouts, for our evening schools, for a number of different associations. It makes a huge difference that there are people's means of education. I have dived into what the figures look like, and it is strikingly such a big difference that exists in the different municipalities. So instinctively, we must be able to do something about it. Of course, I am also curious to hear the questioners what their suggestions could be. However, I would like to mention that we have a beautiful and a proud and strong tradition in Denmark for municipal self-government. I myself am a former Councillor in Aalborg, and I know how much it means that you can decide for yourself in the individual municipality. So the most important thing here is that there is a healthier and a stronger and more realistic community economy. There I am pleased and proud that the Social Democratic Government has drawn up a better municipal agreement, at least, where 2.2 billion have been added. kr. It is also possible to give priority to public education. I think that if you centralise too much, there will be something that will be lost in relation to the local opportunity to give its own priority. I am a great and strong advocate of municipal self-government. I have written a book, "Freedom for fellowship," precisely on that subject, and I think it would be a pity if we were to deprive the municipalities of the opportunity to prioritise themselves. But the economy must be present, because public education is simply too important for it to be spared.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154940	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023154941	I am certainly very pleased to hear the Minister tell us how much public education will be given priority. I can give you some numbers just to tell you a little bit more about it. This is how we spend 43 DKK in Denmark. per This figure covers a very, very large difference. There are some municipalities that spend 149 DKK. per residents, and other municipalities who spend 8 DKK. per citizen. I simply do not think we can find a service area where the difference is as great as in the area of public education. So that's why there's something to get to grips with. In fact, it is also the case that the money that goes to public education has fallen by 48%. for the period 2002-2017. That is why I have to ask: The Danish Council of People's Education has said that they would like to oblige the municipalities to provide a minimum subsidy for public education activities. Could that be acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155047	I really do recognise the great veneration of the questioner for public education. It is also something that is very dear to me as acting Minister for Culture and as a citizen who has been involved in this. That is very, very important and that difference is unreasonable. I think it also conceals the fact that some municipalities are simply in a situation where they are under too much pressure. It is a little interesting to hear that the questioner refers to a period of time, when it is the Left Party which has largely sat on government power and thus the resources that have been available to the municipalities. You've been under pressure. I think it would be boring if the reaction of the Left Party were now to move away from freedom to more centralism instead of municipal self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155134	In fact, it is now the municipalities that control precisely that allocation and, as I said, there is also a good spread in who is the mayor in the various places. I used to be the mayor myself. What I would also like to hear the Minister's answer to is: could it be imagined that there would be minimum requirements for these public education policies, which then lie in the various municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155158	My reasoning from the past probably covers more about the fact that if you are pressured in general in your municipal economy, you might be inclined to find savings in this area. And that is sad, and it is sad, and therefore a realistic municipal economy is absolutely crucial. In the context of a forthcoming municipal agreement, we Social Democrats and the current government are open to concrete proposals. And we would like to see the public education work strengthened, because it is an extremely important area and it makes a huge difference in relation to local communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155229	Then it is the co-questioner, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, for one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155232	Thank you. I would, of course, like to continue a little along the same path. What you can see, unfortunately, is that when you look at the big difference between the subsidies you grant from the municipalities, it is striking that it is in fact particularly in the outermost regions that you give the low subsidies. And when you also look at the level of education, I can be honest and say that when you measure what I come from where I come from in Southern Denmark, it is in fact there that you may even have an extra need to participate in the public-enlightened work. And here I am thinking a little more about the fact that we are constantly talking about a better-balanced country... that we must also support rural areas, the outermost regions. Wasn't there an area here that was obvious, also for the Minister of Culture, somehow going into and helping to support it? I would really like an answer from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155333	The Minister has one minute to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155334	I agree with Mrs Anni Matthiesen's analysis. Unfortunately, there is a distortion which suggests that it is in the outermost regions that you are most affected in this area. We need to do something about this, and I would very much like to engage in a fight to strengthen the public education work, including in those municipalities. And I'd like to invite you to have a dialogue on how to do this better, because it's not good enough as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155400	The enquirer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155403	Following on from what Mr. Kim Valentin also mentioned, I think that at least because I also care about local government and I would also hate to be involved in centralising things in this area... that there should still be some tools that can be taken up to appeal to the municipalities and tell them that they are shooting themselves in the foot by actually turning down these services. Because, in the worst case scenario, it actually makes their own citizens less prepared to be able to deal with the whole area of education in the future. So could the Minister not, in spite of everything, be involved in doing something for an information campaign aimed at the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155449	I think that the most important tool in strengthening this is to give the municipalities a realistic municipal agreement, that is, a realistic economy. And that is where, with the Socialist Government, we have set out to add 2.2 billion. kr. to the municipalities in general. This means that there will be a more realistic economy. In addition, I think it is important that, in all the dialogue we have with the municipalities, we talk about public education. I think they are well aware of how important this is and how big a difference there is. Many of those who save do so because they are forced to do so because there is so much pressure and pressure on an economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155522	Then it's mr. Kim Valentin for one last questioning round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155544	Thank you. What I would like to finish is that if you look at the municipalities, it is true that they have municipal autonomy, and they must continue to have that. But if you look at it, it's a difference from 8 kroner. and then to 149 kr. per It cannot be right, then, that we cannot recommend that they do it a little better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155612	I agree with Mr. Kim Valentin in that the difference is striking and it also seems unreasonable. And I am also aware that an information society very close to the government and to my own party, the AOF, has a proposal that there is some sort of change in the way we do this and let us look at it constructively. I just really don't want to compromise on municipal autonomy. I understand, too, that the questioners very much do not want to do that. Let us strengthen public education, because it is extremely important. And thank you very much to the authors for focusing on this very important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155643	Thank you, and that was the question. We shall now proceed to the next question, which is Question 140. We continue with the same team, that is, the Minister of Culture, asks Mr. Kim Valentin and enquires about Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155659	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155702	What is the Minister's position on the draft national reading strategy that the Danish Library Association is behind?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155712	Again, thank you to the authors for focusing on an extremely important area. We are in a situation where we still have too many children who have difficulty reading, but also some of the children who can actually read do not spend enough time throwing themselves over the treasure chest of fairy tales, it is reading good literature. I would like to say that I am a cheek for the excellent work of the Danish Library Association on this report and this initiative, which they have made in close cooperation with other good parties, among others. BUPL, Danish School Students and others. I've been looking at it with a lot of interest. We know that there is a big problem with children and young people who opt out of reading a good book, perhaps because they throw themselves over the Internet or gambling or something else, and there we have a huge task in encouraging our children and young people to read more. It is therefore something that really enriches us, develops us, stimulates us in the very best way. I believe, and the government believes, that we must be very careful with raised fingers of pointers and to talk down particularly to those who have the hardest part with the reading. That is why I am also pleased and proud that our Minister for Education has launched a proposal for a dyslexic approach, reaching out to those who are really having trouble with this, also in terms of helping parents who are dyslexic children to help something more. Some of them are also dyslexic and need extra help. There is no point in us making elevated index fingers and moral sermons. It's about making opportunities, commitment, enthusiasm about reading a good book. If it is difficult to do so, you can be helped along the way with electronic equipment and other things. There's a whole lot of things we have to do in this area. Specifically, we are now putting 6 million. kr. to an initiative where school freetime and libraries are to work together to create curiosity, euphoria and enthusiasm about reading good books. It is a pleasure to sit and read, for example. Kim Fupz Aakeson's series on Vitello or Anne Sofie Hammer's children's book on Villads from Valby. There is very good literature, also for our children. It is about going over it, and I think that the project from the Danish Library Association is full of good initiatives. I can't wait to work on this. Thank you for focusing on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023155946	Thank you. I note that the Minister says that we should not lift our fingers. I certainly do not think that the proposal and the national reading strategy that has come from the Danish Library Association are an expression of that just to get it straight. In fact, the national reading strategy contains seven points which can be specifically addressed in the government. We are, of course, open to negotiations, but now we know that there is a financial law on the way. So it might be interesting to hear: is there room for a national reading strategy in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160028	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160029	But there has to be. I am thinking that the whole idea of this government is that children should be in focus, and being a child and learning to read and access the treasure chest of fairy tales that lies in literature is absolutely essential. We are incredibly pleased with the reading strategy that the Danish Library Association has come up with. So it wasn't a reference to there being raised index fingers in it. It was just a reminder that we should generally be careful when we come to this discussion and not reprove or talk down to some of those who are not reading much, but rather tell how enthusiastic it is to read good literature. Because it's a real pleasure, and more people should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160110	Let me just finish off in this context by saying that it is actually only 20%. of the Danish school pupils who like to read so much. If we look at the foreign numbers, we can see that they are about 40 per cent, exactly 43 per cent. So you can say that there really is room for improvement. I would like to expand on this point: does this mean that funds will be set aside in the Finance Act for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160139	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160141	As I have just said, we have just set money off, among other things. to the efforts made in relation to school freetime schemes and libraries. Then there are other initiatives in the field of education. It is so that when you look out at the Danish primary school it is not my area, I am the Minister for Culture. Now we need to get it into libraries and school break arrangements and create this enthusiasm, because it is simply important. That being said, this is not just about politics. It is about all of us making an effort to increase interest in good literature.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160217	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen who is a co-author. She has 1 minute to the first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160221	Thank you. One of the things that is also highlighted is the importance of some kind of red thread or blue thread, or whatever the color should be, from home, one can say, into the public libraries and beyond, perhaps also in daily offers and into the schooling, etc., so that, like in some way, there is a connection to making an effort in this area. I'd like to ask you a question there. I fully agree with the Minister that there are things that lie over with the Minister for Children and Education, but there are also things that lie with the Minister for Culture in relation to the activities of the public libraries as well. Is there something on the way also in the Ministry of Culture to support that one somehow gets a greater focus on reading at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160310	It is an important priority for the government to focus on this, and there must also be a red What is important is that all the different areas of action and institutions that we have that work on this should work better together. We must be careful that there are too many silos. Those silos need to be broken down, and then we're gonna have to pick it up. And then we should remember that it is not just about amounts on a financial law or on a municipal budget. It is also about • but it is also about all of us, especially those of us who are adults, getting the enthusiasm that is reading good literature and reminding our children of how important it is and showing them that there is a treasure chest down at the public library. In many places you can take your health card down, let yourself in, also outside the opening hours, and go in and borrow some good books or sit down there and enjoy yourself and get excited about the exciting stories that are there. Come on, let's go. It is simply too exciting to miss.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160403	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160405	I think we can agree on that, that is to say, get started. And we can talk about it today, the three of us in this Chamber. But I also think that if we are to change the percentages that Mr. Kim Valentin just mentioned something concrete has to be done. So is there something concrete on the side of the Minister for Culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160426	If the 20%, as Mr. Kim Valentin is talking about who has the pleasure of reading, so it is far too low. We need to get up to a quite different level, and I want to focus on that as acting Minister for Culture. As I have said, we have made a practical effort now to translate the 6 million. kr. in relation to the special effort in school-free time schemes and in libraries. However, I would like to look at whether there is even more that we can do, and I would also like to talk to my colleagues in the government about putting further emphasis on this. So politically it must have a very high priority, but it is also about everyone else in Danish society remembering to help create the enthusiasm to read good literature.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160505	Thank you. Then the final round of questions is the answer to Mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160509	Thank you. I am certainly glad that what the Minister has said is expressed, because then I can count, and then there is actually a majority here in the room who will do something about it. The reading strategy is only a strategy. What is needed is an action plan. So if we want to do that, we need a little money when we talk to stakeholders. Could the Minister be interested in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160539	Well, I'm just so happy and grateful that there are politicians and parties here in the Danish Parliament who are pressing on in this important area. We in the government are very, very concerned about this. We need far more to engage in this very, very important matter, because reading is simply gold for our children, and it is so important that we get more to read with joy and interest and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160605	Thank you. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160609	We are now resuming the first reading of Bill No. L 38, and the next rapporteur to be on the floor, is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023160642	Thank you so much. There has just been a small break, but during the morning I was listening to the rapporteurs from the other parties, and both the speeches by the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have, to put it mildly, made me sick. How can one stand on the country's finest platform and argue that Islamic State terrorists who have fought against Denmark and Danish soldiers are going to Denmark? I just can't believe it. We have been elected to the Danish Parliament to protect the Danes, but now Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten and Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative betrays the Danes and let dangerous terrorists come to Denmark. I'm wondering, but I really shouldn't. For decades politicians from both the Red and the Blue parties have thrown themselves around with Danish citizenships to foreigners who should never have had it. This concrete proposal concerns scum that has come out to commit treason against Denmark. They should never have had citizenship, but naïve politicians have given them that. Are you satisfied with yourselves? Are you proud? If it were me, I'd be ashamed of myself and luckily it's not me, because in New Citizens we cherish Denmark and the Danes. The government proposes that we take Danish citizenship from IS terrorists with dual citizenship, and of course we support that in New Citizens. We also call on the government to go harder. People with Danish citizenship who have signed up under the black flag of the Islamic State must never be let back into Denmark. They must have taken away their Danish citizenship, and we do not really care if they become stateless. They have chosen and they have chosen Denmark from. Now, of course, we have to choose them from. That is why we also support the amendments tabled by the Danish People's Party, which were mentioned earlier. Experts say that the government's bill is contrary to the stateless Convention and the European Convention on Civil Liberties. We would like to acknowledge that. We are also pleased that the Left supports the bill. Obsolete conventions are no longer sacred to the Left. That is good, because it suggests that the Left will now help put the Danes' security and security above obsolete conventions. This means that the Left may at last have come to the same conclusion as the New Citizen and that the Left will hopefully now help to resolve the immigration policy from scratch. I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the Conservative People's Party, which otherwise calls itself a national party, is wavering on this issue and will not remove citizenship from all IS terrorists. In 2014, Conservative citizenship rapporteur, Mr. Tom Behnke that we should challenge the stateless convention and the interpretation of it and, in the extreme, withdraw. Why would the present Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, right? It is beyond my comprehension that politicians can believe that we owe the terrorists anything. We owe them only one thing, and that's that they can rot where they are. Of course, they will never go back to Denmark, and those who have already come to Denmark because of the failure of politicians must be deprived of their Danish citizenship and thrown out on their asses and elbows. I really would urge the government and the parties supporting this proposal to go much harder. And I would urge all parties to think about what foreigners they will give Danish citizenship in future, because it is a huge gift to get, and it simply cannot be right that it is only us in New Citizens who really cherish that gift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161057	Thank you. Then I would like to remind you of the language used in this Chamber. Although this is a debate that can stir up the mood, we must respect the Rules of Procedure and have proper language. Thank you. No one has asked for a brief comment, so we move on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161144	Bill L 38 proposes, as everyone knows, that cases relating to the disqualification of Danish citizenship for persons with dual nationality, and for whom they are suspected of falling under Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, should be dealt with administratively in the first instance and not by courts. It should be noted that this means that existing law is largely maintained. The point that is fundamentally changing is the first reading of these cases, which relate to Chapters 12 and 13, in other words, to treason and terrorism. The bill is strongly reminiscent of a proposal that was agreed in March 2019 between the then government and the Danish People's Party, and which the Social Democratic Party also intended to join at that time. It was also put on the legislative programme later this year, but the situation in northern Syria has made it urgent. We in the Liberal Alliance would like to be seen as a party that believes roughly the same, whether we are part of a government or part of the opposition, and that is why we support the proposal. But we do not just support the proposal mechanically, if you can put it that way. It is true, as many rapporteurs and many questioners have said, that Danish citizens who have committed even the most serious crimes are still citizens of the rule of law. We must, of course, stick to that. However, it must be balanced against the fact that those citizens who are at risk by the type of crimes covered by Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code are also in great danger by the type of crimes that the members of the Islamic State intend to commit. The whole large group of people are also citizens of the rule of law. It must, of course, be weighed against each other. The rule of law must protect individuals from arbitrary and abuse of power, but it must at the same time maintain law and order and guarantee the security of peaceful citizens. It is a difficult balance and therefore it is good that we have this debate today, but I think that we are right about the legislative proposal. I have taken note of a proposal for a sunset clause in the consultation responses. In general, we think this is a sensible instrument when it comes to urgent legislation or when it comes to legislation of a very far-reaching nature. We are therefore pleased that the proposal will be incorporated into the overall proposal when we come to the second reading. And then I note that the Left wants to strengthen the real access to appeal against the decision of the authorities. It is also a sensible amendment which we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161536	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161539	Thank you. It's because Mr. Henrik Dahl, I believe, confuses administrative law and criminal law on an earlier issue. Well, sir. Henrik Dahl, that you can equate the administrative law with our criminal law in this country when it comes to decisions against citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161606	I am pleased to have the question because it offers the opportunity to correct a misunderstanding. The overall construction, namely that one has an administrative first indent and a judicial body as an appeal body, is a rather common construction in Denmark, and that is what I was referring to with my question. You use it for expropriations, which are actually about abolishing a right that you have under the Constitution, i.e. the inviolability of ownership. There it is an administrative decision in the first indent and then it can be tried by a court in the second indent. I'm sorry, sir, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. Christian Rabjerg Madsen mentioned earlier. It is also a construction with administrative decision plus judicial review.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161658	But do we not agree that this is a question of there being citizens who are probably and now I am probably saying, because I do not think it is for us here in the Danish Parliament to stand and sentence people, but I say I probably have broken the penal code? Do we, in our criminal code system, have examples of the absence of a judgment, and most often, when it is very serious crimes that are being committed, do we not also have a jury? Isn't that how our community of law works? Isn't that how the law of justice works normally?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161737	I think, in fact, that what matters here is the very construction, that is to say that there is a possibility of judicial review. It is this very trial in a court which maintains the division of power, and the fact that we maintain the division of power precisely by having judicial review is, for us, the decisive factor why we can agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161807	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161809	Thank you. Now I was able to hear that the rapporteur had given some thought to the issues relating to the principles of the rule of law. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that the Danish People's Party and the government had previously announced that such a bill would be made here, and it is a long time ago, i.e. probably before Erdogan had considered making an invasion in the northern part of Syria. I would therefore just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not a little wonder that we have to go through such a process here with urgent treatment of something that is relatively far-reaching and far-reaching and has major implications for the legal situation we have here in Denmark. This is something that has been going on for a long time, and therefore there should have been time to have a proper and more thorough discussion, in which the consultation parties could also have the opportunity to give a hearing in good time and we could have time to have proper committee consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161914-2	Like the author, I am in favour of proper deadlines for replying and proper consultation and good practice in this area. Why things take time in politics, I have stopped wondering, because I have found that they do. But I now think the arguments that the situation in northern Syria justifies urgent treatment are valid, because there has been a very rapid development there, which has been difficult to predict for the government, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023161958	I do not know whether the previous government and the Danish People's Party have been psychic, but it is certainly a development that they have been able to foresee then, i.e. that it was possibly a situation one could get into. Then let me ask Mr. Henrik Dahl, if he does not agree that after all there have been other things that could have been done in the intervening period, i.e. for example. ensure that these suspected foreign fighters could be brought home and brought before a Danish court instead, so that we would not be in the situation now that they are escaping from the Kurdish prisons in northern Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162035	Now I was the Foreign Minister during the last parliamentary term, and it was nothing new that the American administration said that they would leave Syria at some point. After all, there were already discussions at that time, so it is known that at some point the American presence in Syria would end, but that it would bring about the plan to create the so-called safe zone that the Erdogan government is now moving forward with, I think it is fair to say that it could not be predicted, even if the withdrawal of the American forces was foreseen at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162117	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162118	Thank you. The rapporteur referred earlier today to an article from Berlingske, which quotes Jørgen Albæk Jensen, and so I would like to ask another professor quoted in the same article, namely Professor Gorm Toftegaard Nielsen, who says: 'The chances of bringing such a case while sitting in Syria are almost non-existent. There I would like to ask how this is related to what the rapporteur mentioned earlier in his rapporteur's speech in relation to the fact that there should be no arbitrariness. We should be very careful not to be involved in this when another professor in the same article, whom the rapporteur refers to, refers to the fact that the possibility of moving forward in the legal system is virtually non-existent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162213	It is, after all, a criticism that has also been voiced by the Court of Justice, and that is why we think, in a way, that the proposal made by the Left for a derogation is a sensible one which we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162231-2	Another thing I would like to ask is what the rapporteur said about us being very careful about arbitrariness, with which I and the Radical Left are in complete agreement. What lies in this bill is that you want to punish and deprive citizenship of a given course of action that you can pursue. Does the rapporteur think that this is a sufficiently precise concept, in which it is possible to see what it is, and what it is not allowed to do when it comes to depriving one's citizenship, when it is also made clear that one can be punished outside the content of the crime contained in the criminal code?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162308	In other words, it has emerged that the imagination of the Islamic State, when it comes to terrorism and very, very violent acts of violence, no borders are known. So it is very sensible to have a cat door where they say that if they were to devise some method of committing terrorism, which is not specifically mentioned in chapters 12 and 13, it is still illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162338	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. I would like to extend a warm welcome to a privateist, Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162348	Thank you, sir. President. When I choose to act as a privateist, it is simply because this proposal is the wildest thing I have seen to date in the 22 years I have been an active politician. Now, in general, I do not belong to the kind of people who subscribe to the view that everything was better in the old days when Mom was a boy, but I cannot help thinking that in such a context I miss people like Mr. Per Stig Møller in the Conservative People's Party, and I miss people like Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech in the Left, and I miss someone like Mr. Preben Wilhjel, who might persuade some on the left to stand guard over the rule of law, no matter what happens. Now I know that the Minister is one of the Members of Parliament who has been read, and that is why I have allowed myself to bring a few books, because I have no illusions that I am able to convince the majority that is here, but perhaps a little literature, a little spiritual food, can help some thoughts along the way, so that we could at least think about it. There I will start with Mrs Birthe Rønn Hornbeck, who has written a book that is quite good to get smart of, namely then politics went into it. Here she writes: "Every member of parliament knew. Fundamental principles of our rule of law that power is divided between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary were trampled underfoot when the Trendloven was implemented last day before Parliament's summer holiday on 31 May 1996. The Folketing went to court and passed judgment on the guilt without making sure that the necessary evidence was available. Since the trial after the occupation, the Trendserloven is the worst disgrace that has been put on the Danish rule of law. By law, a number of named Trendskoles, with a stroke of pen, were deprived of public subsidies without the possibility of bringing individual grants to an end before the courts. The false melody that justice was intact, as the then Minister for Education Ole Vig Jensen maintained, did not last at all. Everyone remembers what happened to the Tree Law. Since then, in 1999, we had a Supreme Court ruling that overruled the Trend Act. I mean, without being a lawyer, what we're doing here makes the Trendlove look like Rip, Rap and Rup. Well, I really mean that you move out on thin ice. And I would like to ask the Minister whether he is convinced that, in the face of justice, it can be claimed that it is intact. It is such a bit of a paper tiger, because how is it to be put into practice for the individual people who are deprived of their citizenship? How can one even get there that one thinks we should move to a legal system, a law of justice that we had up to 1919, from 1849 to 1919, namely the Inquisitorian, where we have a judge who is both a prosecutor and a judge? That is really what we are introducing. We're going back in time because who's the judge here and who's the prosecutor? It is not even the judge; it is the minister. If the Minister and the honourable Members of Parliament would read Mr. Preben Wilhjel's book, called "The Fight for the Rule of Law," which describes 70 years of struggle for the laws we have today, could be that one would consider a little bit whether we are not breaking down some of the finest things we have in Denmark as Danes. What is important here is that this is not about defending Syrian warriors. It's about defending you and me. It is a question of defending our legal certainty, because who knows when a majority will come who suddenly extends the provision on what can happen to us, because you can easily take in other penal provisions? No one can say that today, and certainly not in the political reality we are living in today. That's what you have to remember when you move into the kind of experiments you do here. Now, sir. Rasmus Jarlov is not here, but in conclusion I would like to quote from a book by Mr. Per Stig Møller, where he writes: "I shall live, Your Majesty, said a soldier to Frederik IV, who bently answered him: "I do not realize the necessity of this, because for justice it did not mean from time to time whether this soldier lived while it meant a great deal whether the king did so. The first was just an insignificant number in the line. The other was a state-supporting person. This is how we act when we do not take citizens' freedoms and human rights seriously... Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162929	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023162934	What makes me ask for the floor is that Preben Wilhjel be mentioned. Preben Wilhjel was an extremely strong legal politician, but in 1979, here in this room, he voted against banning child pornography on the basis of some very, very fine principles of legal policy which he had arrived at. This leads me to ask: even if you have some very fine principles of legal policy, you should not even weigh in some other considerations, so perhaps, in spite of your excellent analysis, for example. vote to ban child pornography?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163023	After all, this has nothing to do with child pornography, and I cannot be held responsible for what Preben Wilhjel has voted in every context, nor will I be held responsible for what Mr Wilhjel has done. Henrik Dahl has voted in different contexts. There are times when I can agree with Mr. President. Henrik Dahl, and there are times when I disagree deeply. In particular, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henrik Dahl, when he presents some good liberal views; when he becomes a national conservative, I very much disagree with him. What I am pointing out with this excellent book is that it is an excellent story about how the law on justice actually came into being and what principles we were building on before 1919 and what political struggles it took to move the judicial system from an Inquisitoric system with a judge who was also a prosecutor into an accusatory legal system where there is always a judge in the middle and a defender on the one hand and a prosecutor on the other hand, but where the judge is only an assailant. And the prosecution needs to be objective, but the defense doesn't have to. That is what our whole pillar of the rule of law is in this area. Then there are criminal laws, where jurors and such things have been introduced. What I am saying is: should we not ensure that whatever crime is committed, we always have the right to a fair trial? Is it not precisely the Danish legal system? Isn't that Danish? I hope so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163155	After all, the administrative law must be observed in all circumstances, and it can be applied to very serious things, such as disregarding the inviolability of property or removing people's children. So it is not the case that you stand in law when it is not the law on justice that applies. Then there is the administrative law, and it also has a number of things to take into account. But I didn't ask for child pornography at all specifically. I just asked about the whole question of being blinded by principles and being so one-eyed with its principles that you can't see anything at all on the side. I would like to have some further reflection on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163235	After all, I have asked rapporteurs several times whether emergency law was invoked, and I was given a clear answer that it was not. But I would like to ask the Minister the same question. Because you have to relate things to each other. After all, there is something in the legal system that is called proportionality, and if it is the case that one has to depart from one's principles then one has to ask: what exactly does this change our security situation, so that we deal urgently with this bill today? I haven't been able to get answers to that from anyone. It doesn't stop people from being able to stay here. Some of them even have a right of residence, even if they do not have citizenship. You have to keep that in mind. So what exactly does this change the security situation? And especially when you use security as an argument, it is a little difficult to understand that you then say that you can handle a very large group that has one citizenship, but you cannot deal with the small group that has dual citizenship. It does not add up; it is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163345	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments, and I have not heard that other private individuals wish to speak in this House. That is why we have come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163400	I would also like to start by expressing my thanks for the debate on the draft law and also for the House's agreement with the Government's wish that we should be able to deal quickly with this bill. The current situation in the border area between Turkey and Syria is constantly evolving, and with the uncertain and unstable situation there is a significant risk that foreign fighters with Danish citizenship may shortly be on their way to Denmark. Foreign warriors who have travelled to Syria to fight in conflict areas have turned their backs on Denmark and have fought against our democratic values. And I and the government have absolutely no sympathy for these people, and they are undesirable in Denmark. We will therefore do everything possible to prevent them from reentering the country. In the spring, the last government took the initiative to create an access to the right to deprive foreign fighters of their nationality administratively. This happened in an agreement with the Danish People's Party. We want to follow that up, and that's what's happening with this bill. The draft law that we are discussing today has been submitted to an abbreviated hearing from 14 October to 21 October, and we are dealing with it urgently in the Folketing, given that the situation in Syria is serious and uncertain and is constantly evolving. There is a risk that the Kurdish-controlled IS camps will collapse, which could mean that Syrians with Danish citizenship will be joining Denmark shortly. These people may have been in areas where the Islamic State has had power for up to several years, and if they return to Denmark, it is estimated that there may be a risk associated with it. There is therefore a need for legislation to be in place as soon as possible. The aim of the bill is to introduce an administrative possibility to deprive a person with dual nationality of his Danish nationality. It must be without requiring that the person concerned be convicted in a court of law in Denmark. The exclusion must be possible while the person concerned is still abroad. The draft law contains a model whereby the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may take Danish citizenship from a person of dual nationality who has acted in a manner which seriously harms the vital interests of the country. In addition, the draft law allows the Minister of Justice to provide that information on the basis of which the assessment is based cannot be disclosed to the person concerned for security reasons. Following this, the draft law contains specific procedural rules for judicial review of an administrative withdrawal decision. It is apparent from the draft law that, when assessing whether a person becomes a stateless person, it can conclude whether he or she can acquire a nationality of another country by simply registering with the authorities of that country. I have, of course, followed the public debate on the bill, just as I have been in dialogue with several, if not all of you rapporteurs. In this respect, I note that there seems to be broad support for the introduction of a sunset clause, among other things. In view of the need to deal urgently with the legislative proposal. I have therefore decided to table an amendment introducing such a sunset clause. However, it does not change the fact that the proposed rules are the right tool in the current situation, and if it keeps just one foreign warrior who would otherwise have entered, out of Denmark, it is good in our opinion. At the same time, of course, we have incorporated the legal guarantees that a democratic society such as ours can be familiar with. The general rules are, after all, adopted here in the Danish Parliament and are, according to the opinion of the government's lawyers, within the framework of the Constitution and Denmark's international obligations. Secondly, decisions must be taken in accordance with the rules of the administration and, finally, there is the possibility of subsequent judicial review by the courts. With these words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good debate. I think it has actually been quite good and I am now looking forward to the further examination of the bill here in Parliament. And, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise in connection with the examination of the legislative proposal, both in this Chamber and in the subsequent committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163818	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163822	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I would like to put a question to the Minister, whom I also put to Mr Van den Broek. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, when he gave the rapporteur's speech. It is because it is clear from the comments made on the draft law that the problem is also raised there that there may be a certain minor procedural risk, that is to say, what in plain Danish means that it may be contrary to international conventions and here to the European Convention on Human Rights. After all, the understanding paper produced by the Social Democratic Party together with the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and Radical Left states that Denmark must and here I quote: respect international conventions at all times. So I just have to make sure that if it turns out that there isn't just a process risk, but that this is against the conventions, then this legislation will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023163922	I would like to start by saying that if there is anything in the legislation we have in Denmark that is contrary to the conventions, then the government's view is that we should change the legislation so that it is consistent with the conventions. In addition, the government is completely concerned that all legislation that is being put forward will, of course, comply with the Constitution and the international obligations we have. It is quite normal that when legislative proposals are presented, there is an assessment against various international obligations, and in all the obligations assessed in this bill it says that it does not raise any questions, except in one place where it says that there is a certain minor procedural risk. I have, of course, asked in the Ministry what that means and they say that it is as far down on the warning scale as you can come, but the reason why it says here anyway is that no case-law has been developed because there have been no judgments in international courts about exactly the specific issue that has been assessed. That is why we dare not say that it raises no question, because there is nothing to weigh it up against. That is why it is actually an honest thing to say that there is a certain minor procedural risk, but I am quite confident that we will remain within the framework of our international obligations in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164037	I am pleased that the Minister has given a very clear answer to the fact that the legislation must, of course, comply with international conventions. Of course, I'm really happy about that. When I ask, it is because it is not only the Ministry itself that raises this issue in relation to a minor process risk. This is also quite clear from the answers to the questions raised, among other things. from the Institute for Human Rights that they also point out that this may be contrary to the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Citizenship. That is why I am just glad to hear that the Minister is of the opinion that if there is a breach of the international conventions which Denmark has signed up to, it will mean that the legislation will be changed immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164119	In the field of foreigners, we are gifted by some very good consultation parties. In fact, I think we are getting some good consultation answers, and I always read the consultation answers with interest, perhaps particularly, I would say, from the Institute for Human Rights. Law isn't an exact science. That's debatable. But we feel that way in the Social Democratic Party, and we also feel in the government that we base the legal assessments of the Ministry of Justice and, in this case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration on our political work. We did that when we were in opposition. We do not invent our own legal assessments or pull out a single hearing answer and build our policy on it. We base it on the official legal assessments that come from the state apparatus, in the same way as we build our economic policy on the official calculations from the Ministry of Finance. We do not find our own calculators, and I think it benefits the quality of the legal work that we all recognise the Ministry of Finance as a calculator and the Ministry of Justice and, in this case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration as the legal authority to assess whether or not we are in breach of the conventions. And here it is, I would say, fairly clear that we are moving within the framework of international commitments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164231	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164234	Thank you. I heard Radio24seven the other day, and it may be that I did not just hear the whole story, but along the way it struck me that the Minister said that there were some things in this debate that were expressed, and now I apologise in advance for the expression, flueffing. I would like the Minister to be able to clarify in more detail what is the expression of the word I do not want to repeat in this very, very fundamental debate. I would then like to ask once again what I have asked earlier today: the question of whether, as a starting point, citizenship is only taken from someone if they have dual citizenship, but that there is this cat member who has been formulated so that it is possible to do so if they only have Danish citizenship if they can acquire citizenship in another country by simply registering with the authorities of that country. So if there are just 1 in 192 countries other than Denmark, where you can get such citizenship, then we can make the person stateless. What does the Minister really think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164346	I would like to start by saying that I sometimes think that, when the Danish Parliament urgently deals with legislation, we have a very stressful and imprecise debate. But I would actually say that I think there has been a good public debate about this bill, although there has also been a lot of speed in that debate, and that I also think that this first reading shows that the level is quite high and that we have avoided a debate where there have been too many strawmen and all the other cheap tricks. In fact, I think we have had a pretty good debate. So to the end: the UN Refugee Organisation has published such guidelines on how to understand some of these international obligations, and that is what we have tried to lean on in the comments to the bill, and it is about defining when you are a stateless person. It is when you have no citizenship and when you do not have the opportunity to acquire it by contacting another country without the other country making an estimate. Then, of course, I have also been asked: what is this other country you have in mind, sir? Minister? To this the answer is that there is no current country that I have in mind when it comes to the foreign fighters we know have been in Iraq and Syria. So it is more a question of trying to secure legislation for the future and leaning on the international assessments that come from among others. UNHCR, which is the UN Refugee Organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164509	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164510	If you read, I think it is the front page of politics today and another newspaper, you can see that in some of the hearings they do not recognize these wordings in the UNHCR guideline that that is the interpretation to be taken. So what has made it necessary to have the wording, that is to say, that there may be 192 countries other than Denmark, where someone might be able to register, and one can then make the person stateless? Isn't it like going right to the edge and maybe a little over having this future assurance, as the minister describes it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164550	We should not go over the edge of international obligations. I think that is important. But the government's starting point for this whole discussion has been that there are some people we think are undesirable in Denmark because they have turned their backs on our democracy and our country, and within the framework of the constitution and conventions we will do what we can to ensure that they do not come here. That is why it has of course also been interesting to have some assessments of, for example. When we consider ourselves to be stateless, and if, within the framework of the conventions that we have signed up to, we are able to take citizenship away from people, we would very much like to do so in order to avoid them coming here and constituting a security threat. That is why the draft law makes this clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164630	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164631	I also think it has been an excellent debate, and it is quite true that law is not an exact science. Unfortunately, the time has been such a very precise time, even for all those who have had to give a hearing, and there are fairly clear answers. We can just take the Court of Justice, who says they can't assess all the elements, among other things. Because it comes in the middle of the autumn vacation, and then we have to have such an emergency treatment here. Personally, I have seen it as very unpleasant to be dragged backwards into such a discussion here as a member of parliament, which is why, as I did today, I voted with the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. We cannot, of course, legitimately discuss whether the proposal here is tolerable in relation to the Constitution, because the President per year. It is not possible to put forward a legislative proposal in the Folketing which is contrary to the Constitution, and that means that if we were to follow the Rules of Procedure strictly, we would be prevented from taking the discussion we are now taking. I'm glad we're gonna get the chance anyway. But what is it that makes the Minister think that this is in the interests of security, what is to say, the breach of the general principles? What exactly does the Minister say that this means that they do not come here? I find that very difficult to read from the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164752	The Minister,
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164753	But there are no guarantees. In other words, even if we adopt this bill, I cannot stand here and guarantee that there will be no foreign warrior with dual citizenship who still has his rubber shoes on the Danish side of the Danish-German border. I can't guarantee that. But I believe that if we get this passed and get the law to come into force as soon as possible... the ambition is that it should be this week... then we will be able to take the citizenship of some foreign fighters who have dual citizenship and that it will actually increase the security of the Danish population. And I think it has a value. I really think it does. It is clear that it must take place within the framework of the rule of law. It is not at all for discussion. But within that framework I think that the Folketing should be able to gather around doing everything we can to prevent those people from coming here. It is really, really not in the interests of our country that they arrive in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164843	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164845	It was then Baron Montesquieu who said at the time: I am human before I am a Frenchman, and I am a man of necessity and only a Frenchman by chance. It is, of course, a very good principle to have when it comes to discussing justice policy and security. For does the Minister believe that security should only apply to Danish nationals in Denmark? Why, in relation to these Danish citizens, who we believe have committed a crime, do we not instead make an active effort to get them under lockdown?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023164924	No, it is not the government's view that security applies only to Danish citizens in Denmark. I also believe that both the Folketing and the government have a responsibility for people without Danish citizenship who are staying in Denmark, just as I also believe that, because we are people, we have a responsibility to other people, no matter where they are on the planet. However, I do not think it is possible to ignore the fact that this Parliament and, at least, the government that is currently in office feel a particular obligation towards the people who are staying in this country, and we cannot ignore the fact that there has been a request from the Ministry of Justice that we deal with this bill urgently this week in the interests of public safety. It was, of course, on the legislative programme for December. It is with open eyes that we have a very short consultation period and unfortunately a short parliamentary procedure, but that is because we also have information that the Ministry of Justice says: Would you be kind enough to deal with it urgently this week; it would be of benefit to the people's safety? I think that should also be thoughtful, both on one side and on the other side of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165024	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165026	Are foreign fighters with one citizenship not as dangerous to Denmark as those with two? When the Minister only proposes that we can remove citizenship from them with two citizenships, will the Minister not admit that the government is not doing everything it can to defend Denmark and the security of the Danes? And can the Minister not therefore admit that the government puts international conventions above Denmark's security by not involving foreign fighters who have only one citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165111	I certainly do not have any information that foreign fighters with two citizenships would pose a greater danger to Denmark's security than foreign fighters with only one citizenship. I can follow Mrs. Marie Krarup that far. We have set ourselves the task of doing everything we can to protect the Danish state, the Danish authorities and the Danish people, and this is done within the framework of the Danish constitution and the conventions that we have acceded to, and we do so with open eyes, and that is, among other things. because we are in favour of Denmark having signed the stateless Convention. We are not in favour of people being stateless. We believe that it is a step forward for humanity that fewer and fewer people are stateless, and that is an important step forward that we must stand firm on. The people who are then staying in, for example. Syria and Iraq, and who have been foreign fighters, we also want to do something about it, even if they are in those areas. We are working together with other European countries to ensure a regional legal process for them in the areas, and we have been intensifying efforts here recently. We are not in line with that, but it is the ambition that they should also be tried and punished, and if they come to Denmark with Danish citizenship, we will also do everything we can to bring them to justice at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165231	I just think it is a pity that the government will not live up to its promise that you will do everything you can to ensure that foreign fighters do not come to Denmark when it is actually not what you do. So I would therefore urge the government to work to ensure that we get out of the stateless convention or have a reservation on it, so that we can actually implement what we are proposing as an amendment to L 38, that it should of course also apply to those foreign fighters who have only one nationality. Because I think one can be quite convinced that they are at least as dangerous as those who have two citizenships, and therefore Denmark and the Danes should of course be able to be defended against them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165316	I myself take the view that Europe, and also other parts of the world, has a dull history of ethnic and religious minorities who have not received citizenship rights and that there have been a great many people who have not had access to citizenship and that it is a political objective not only for the Danish government but for a great many countries in the world to limit statelessness and not to take citizenship from people if they are at risk of becoming stateless. I really think that is an important step forward, and we must not go back there. It has been an important step for humanity to make that step forward. This does not prevent us from doing everything we can to prevent foreign fighters from coming to Denmark or from having a regional trial in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165403	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165405	Thank you so much. I mentioned it earlier when the rapporteur was on, and now I would like to ask the Minister the same question. For my impression from the Minister and from the Social Democratic Party was that it did not want a sunset clause in this law, but that there would then have been a little pressure from other parties. The Left was mentioned and I could understand that the Radical Left wanted this too. Some kind of roller collar alliance had been agreed on about this desire for a sunset clause. Then I just wanted to know whether the Minister suddenly thinks that it is a good idea to have a sunset clause in this bill, or whether the Minister will stick to his original position, as I saw it, that this bill should not have a sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165500	Thank you for the question. We have tabled a legislative proposal without a sunset clause because we thought it was the right thing to do. But we are also a minority government. We represent only about a quarter of the Folketing, so we need to cooperate with other parties in the Folketing. That is why we always listen carefully to what all the parties say. And we have among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That is why we have said: then let us write an amendment about it. This means that the bill has a sunset clause which expires at the latest at the end of the next parliamentary assembly. So it's towards the summer of 2021. That amendment is being tabled and we in the government will support it and the Social Democrats will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165556	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. I understand that this will not be part of the legislative proposal, but it will be an amendment to the draft law that is being tabled with regard to this sunset clause. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165609	Yes, and when we meet in this Chamber tomorrow, there will be, I can hear, several amendments that we have to deal with, and one of them will then be put forward by the government and will be about a sunset clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165622	Then there is a brief comment from Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165624	Thank you for the floor. Today's debate has been about the rule of law in relation to the security of the empire. The alternative is that, precisely by imprisoning foreign fighters, we guarantee the security of the empire far more effectively than if we just leave them out in the big world. My question to the Minister is quite specific: does the Minister believe that foreign fighters who are accused and put in prison in Denmark pose a greater threat because they are on Danish soil alone than if they are free in the big world where we do not control them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165705	That's an assessment. Our assessment is that the best thing for the safety of the Danish population and to keep the threat level down is to keep these people out of Denmark. If they do not have Danish citizenship, they will also have problems entering the whole Schengen area. So we actually regard this as a step in the right direction to ensure the safety of the population, and we do not believe that it will increase the safety of the Danish population if they can maintain their Danish citizenship and travel into Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165742	I put a question to the Minister in my rapporteur's speech, which I shall follow up. Let us say that there are other countries that copy the example from Denmark and introduce such a law. How will the Minister act if a foreign warrior is deprived of his foreign passport and deported to Denmark? If such a scenario arises, how will the Minister act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165809	Well, if a person with Danish citizenship tries to enter Denmark, we open the door, and that is, whether it is at the Danish-German border, or whether it is at Terminal 3 at Copenhagen Airport, because people with Danish citizenship have the right to enter Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165825	The last one, with a brief comment, is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165830	Thank you. I would just like to follow up on the last question here, because the Minister is not at all worried that we are now starting a race with other states, for example. States which, after all, do not have as good a legal society as we have in Denmark, in other words dictatorships? Is the Minister not concerned that we are starting a race to deprive foreign fighters of citizenship and that we will end up making some people stateless?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165901	The Danish Government is not going to make any stateless, but I can certainly understand if there are other governments in the world who go with the same thoughts as us, so consider whether theirs I would be able to understand for that. That would, of course, be a complete continuation of the policy of this government, but then I hope that they will only withdraw citizenship under the condition that they do not become stateless.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023165937	We can then hope that all possible dictatorships have the same relationship with conventions that we can hear the government has. My second question concerns the children. Well, we've been told that there are between 30 and 50 Danish children in some of these camps. We have to assume that some of these children's parents are in a situation where they can have their citizenship withdrawn. So how does the minister think we should help these kids? The minister says he cares about Danish citizens, about Denmark and Denmark's security. Aren't we going to worry a little about these kids, too? If their parents are deprived of Danish citizenship, how do we ensure that these children do not grow up with terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170021	In fact, I think that Mrs Rosa Lund is onto something important, but also something that is difficult, namely that there are some children who are living under completely horrible conditions in some camps, which I think many of us find difficult to understand how crazy is. But it's also hard. It is difficult for security policy reasons, it is difficult for foreign policy reasons, and it is also difficult for very low-practical reasons. That's why it's very hard to have a general line, compared to what you do to the kids who are in this situation. We in the government are trying to assess it on a case-by-case basis and there are humanitarian concerns and there are concerns for the children, which are essential. But it must also be weighed against security policy considerations, and we are trying to do so on a case-by-case basis. And if these parents are deprived of their Danish citizenship, the children will not
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170114	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Before we move on to the last item, I would like to extend a warm welcome to my esteemed colleague Mrs Annette Lind, who is now President on item 3 of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170202	The debate is open and first of all I should like to welcome Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170228	Thank you, Madam President. L 20 is a bill on the performing arts. It is a vote agreement from 20 March 2019. The legislative changes that we are discussing are leading to the strengthening of the performing arts agreement, with the emphasis on strengthening more theatre for more. We invest money in the fact that more people can enter the theater and that the theatre can get a little more out of their fixed framework, both financially and financially. The draft law suggests that we introduce a new category of theatre that performs special tasks regionally across several municipalities. The aim is to ensure that theatres with a very narrow geographical area of activity can also be included in this state scheme. And the theatres covered by the new legislation may receive additional State subsidies. There will be five categories of regional theatres to be supported. Theaters performing theatres in the district in which they are located, theatres touring in this country, theatres specialising in a part of the country or throughout the country, theatres performing special tasks in the field of performing arts, and theatres developing performing arts through experiments or special activities. And here it can be international. It is intended to open up theatres that have some potential to perform tasks in a larger geographical area through the state resources with which they can now come into contact. Specifically, there are three theatres we are strengthening. This is Fredericia Theatre, this is Vendsyssel Theatre, and this is Rander's Theatre. And with the strengthening of the three theatres we also strengthen the province. During the consultation period there have been a number of questions about the composition of the boards of the theatres. However, I am sure that there will be good cooperation with each theatre when the boards are to be set up, together with the ministers and the municipality, so that all interests are represented in the work, including the locals. The bill has been welcomed in the organizations, so I hope these initiatives will bring more life to the theatre and benefit more theatres. The legislation must come into force on 1 January 2020 and the Social Democrats will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170530	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I should also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left, Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170540	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the positive reception given to the draft law. I am pleased that there is such broad support among parties and, more importantly, among the relevant professionals. The bill translates part of the political vote agreement in the field of performing arts concluded on 20 March 2019 by the then government consisting of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. In addition, it is a settlement with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party. The aim of the bill is to ensure coherence between the scope and potential of the theatres and the state subsidy they receive. In this way, we ensure that the state grants are sent to where the Danes get the most culture for the money, and that is good. For we must ensure that the state subsidy follows precisely the theaters' ability to engage the Danes in cultural life. This is where we step one step away from the busy everyday life, and this is where we get perspectives on who we are and where we are going. The theatres play an important role in contributing cultural experiences to the Danes all over the country. With the bill, we are adapting the subsidy scheme for theatres to the target group that extends beyond the municipalities that are providing them today. And this allows the theatres to focus on what they are good at, namely to make good culture for the Danes. It is also a good thing that the draft law provides for the Minister to negotiate with KL in future. I am delighted to translate parts of the political agreement in the field of performing arts, which gives more theatre to more people, and this is, of course, a bill that the Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170812	Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin for what I think was sir. Kim Valentine's maiden speech. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Kim Valentin Thank you, that's it). Secondly, I should like to welcome the next rapporteur. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023170830	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party is also included in this vote agreement, and of course we intend to comply with it, and we will also vote in favour of the bill at third reading. And I shall not repeat what my honourable colleagues have said so far on the platform. We agree, and that is welcome, perhaps just a few brief remarks on musicals. Fredericia Theatre is a regional theatre, and the municipality has supported the musical theater and the academy and banged up a successful theatre. In parliament and in certain cultural circles there has been some resistance to musicals in the capital, especially because they often do well on the market and because they are often commercial. What we've been able to see is that musicals are popular with people. At the same time, there has been a grant for a musical theater in Copenhagen, while you have not managed to give the theatre in Fredericia a state grant. It has only been the municipality that has supported, and then, by its own power and help, it has managed to make the theatre a success. It is only gratifying that the state now equates the two successful musical theatres that we have in Denmark, namely in Fredericia and in Copenhagen, and I hope, of course, that the law will in this way be a support for the regional regional theatres, which will now have a larger coverage area and therefore also a slightly greater responsibility. We welcome the agreement, we see no reason to change it, and we look forward to the continued discussion in the Folketing and in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171026	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Secondly, I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Nils Sjøberg. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171041	Thank you. I am here on behalf of our cultural rapporteur, Zenia Stampe, who unfortunately cannot be here today. She has asked me to say the following: the Radical Left is part of the vote agreement which is the basis of the draft law. The agreement includes the creation of a new category of theatres to carry out tasks across several municipalities. This is a very positive step, the Radical Left seems, because it takes account of the fact that not all municipalities are fortunate enough to have a theatre and that more theatres have already taken on greater responsibility for getting the performing arts to a wider audience geographically. We would like to pay tribute to that by looking very positively at that agreement. In the long term, we want to give even more theaters the opportunity to go the same way. We need to get the stage art around all over Denmark, all over the country. Following the conclusion of the voting agreement, a debate has been held on the proposed composition of the Board of Directors. There are, among other things: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my concern at the way in which this has been put together. Of course, we will look at this with interest in the future. We believe that this is a legitimate concern, and it is certainly our view that we should not compromise on the local anchoring and artistic integrity of the theatres, even though they are now receiving greater state subsidies. It is precisely these theaters' strong local anchoring and artistic drive that have led them towards success and which we now honour with this increased grant. We will therefore take the discussion with the other parties in the circle of the agreement and look at possible solutions. It may be in the form of an amendment that will change. It can be in many ways; it can also be in the form of notices which are chosen. On behalf of the Radical Left, however, I can tell you that Zenia Stampe, whom I represent here, would very much like to be involved in the further work, and we very much welcome it in the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171304	Thank you very much, sir. Nils Sjøberg also what I think was the rapporteur's maiden speech. Congratulations. Now we need Enhedslistens Mai Villadsen. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171322	Thank you. It's nice to stand here on the platform for the first time and be allowed to talk about culture and the theatres. Recently I myself was in the theatre and watched a play, which was set up by three theatres, Betty Nansen Theatre, Aalborg Theatre and Malmö Stadsteater. It was called "The women seeking asylum'. Did it deal with modern problems of asylum seekers? No, actually it didn't, because it was a piece written 2,500 years ago, one of the world's oldest dramas. However, it asked some very topical questions: where do we belong as human beings, and who takes us in when we are in danger? So it did what good culture had to do to get spectators to think about life and ask the big questions. That is also why it is very important that we, as a society, spend money on culture. That is why I think it is very good that this bill will provide more funding for theatres that go far into the country. But we must also ensure politically that the theatres are accessible to as many people as possible, and as the acting Minister of Culture has wisely written, culture and art must be for everyone. That is why I also have a small but, a reservation, in relation to the examination of this legislative proposal, namely the cuts in the dissemination system. Because you can read out of the consultation answers that there is a risk that the fares for ordinary Danes will suffer, and that is not so good. It is positive that children's and young people's tickets are exempted from the cut, but the Enhedslisten is concerned about the consequences of the cuts, for the theatres, especially the very small ones, and for fares, and that is why we will be asking questions about it in committee. Finally, I would like to say that it was the case that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative were not invited into the voting agreement, but I would like to acknowledge the openness of the government and thus conclude that the Enhedslisten is waiting for the bill but looks forward to the work of the committee. And then I had to say hello from the SF and say that they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171550	I would also like to thank Mrs Mai Villadsen for her virginity. Next time, if you need it, you can run the podium a little bit down if it's a little too loud. There are no brief comments, so thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Then I would like to welcome Mrs Birgitte Bergman, who will also be giving her maiden speech today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171611	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the floor. As I said, this is my first speech as rapporteur, and I have looked very much forward to it as a cultural rapporteur. Although this specific bill is about performing arts, I would just like to take the opportunity to say a little in general about our cultural life, because I am very surprised that culture is not a priority for the new government. Never have so many Danes used the country's cultural institutions and actively participated in cultural life as these days, these years. The Danes are, in fact, Europe's major consumers of cultural experiences, and as much as 80%. believes that artistic and cultural experiences play an important role in children's education. Nevertheless, art and culture are most often the lowest on the political agenda, in competition with other key social issues such as health, education and the elderly. It is thought-provoking, and it is a pity that the cultural area should almost apologise for its place in public budgets. For me as a conservative, culture is an important part of our welfare society. Culture is about education, community and innovation. Culture is at the same time generating cultural revenue for both business, municipalities, state and cultural life itself. And again: It creates and maintains values that are inherited further generation by generation. This proposal is about theatre art, where the aim is to ensure more theatre for more. The draft law is based on a broad agreement reached before the June elections. The bill introduces a new category of theatre which performs special tasks regionally across several municipalities. Enlargement ensures that theatres with a narrowly defined geographical area of activity can also be included in the scheme, and that is very good. With this bill, we ensure a greater geographical spread of funds, but it is important to emphasise that innovation and development of Danish performing arts are also found elsewhere, such as. at the local theatre associations. Therefore, it is good that they can get their state cofinancing for their projects in the reimbursement scheme, which in future will take place under the auspices of the Statens Kunstfond. The Conservative People's Party is working not to reduce support for children and young theatres and support for adult theatres. It was important for us that a development pool of 33 million should be set aside. kr. for regional theatres which receive not a state operating grant, but also the theatres which receive a very small state grant, including: Aveny-T. In general, however, we would like more funds to be added to culture and the re-priority contribution to be abolished. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports that agreement and hence also the bill. And I should like to say from New Citizens that they are also voting in favour of the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171907	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and congratulations on the first speech on Parliament's platform. I'd like to welcome an old acquaintance, sir. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023171920	First of all, I think it is quite nice to hear three maiden speeches from up here, especially Mrs Birgitte Bergmans, who so well raised the cultural fan. It was really nice. Let's start with the conclusion. We are positive about the changes to the act of performing arts that are being presented here. I like it when we make legislation that suits reality. We have seen a number of theaters who have grown out of a framework because they have carried out a broader task geographically, and what we are doing today is adapting legislation to suit reality. Three theatres have also been mentioned, namely Fredericia, Vendsyssel and Randers. I'd also like to give a cadeau to Mr. Cadeau. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party, because it is absolutely true that they are doing great theatre all three places, but I also want to say that Fredericia has done something very special, because they have gone from being owlset in some contexts and to setting a whole new level of what you can with the musical genre. So I totally agree with the Danish People's Party in this area, and it's nice to be so for once. So I think we are now seeing legislation that we support. Finally, as we heard from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I would like to say that it is in fact politically deeply frustrating when, as a party, you want to be part of either a conciliation group or a vote agreement, as in this case, you go in as a party and say that you both agree fully with the content and that you also stand for the economy that makes these changes possible, but then is blocked from the possibility of it, because then it seems like political bullying. I have to stress time and time again that I simply do not understand it and I think it is a bad parliamentary culture. That consideration and attitude must be emphasized by many cool people. I think it's too bad! Otherwise, I think the bill is really, really good and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023172201	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative. There are no brief comments. And then I'd like to welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023172212	Thank you for that, President. After all, with L 20, we are implementing a political agreement that was reached before the election of my party colleague, or perhaps not my party colleague, it is debated in the media, and I cannot answer the question of Mette Bock, who was Minister of Culture at this time. We should not contribute more than necessary to political entertainment, so of course we support the agreement we have made ourselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023172248	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And there are no brief remarks to Mr. Henrik Dahl. I should now like to welcome the acting Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023172308	First of all, thank you very much for the incredibly positive support for this proposal. It is nice when we have a vote agreement and there is broad support for things that people support the agreements that have been made, and it is also nice that other parties join and support such an important issue as the theatre. Thank you, too, for the many good, inspiring, life-affirming maiden speeches that took part in this debate. It is also an important topic we are talking about here, namely our theatres. I think that Enhedslisten's excellent cultural rapporteur, Mrs Mai Villadsen, mentioned what makes theatre so life-affirming and stimulating. It makes us see things in a different light. It's not just entertainment, but it's also a way to get perspective on things, to be smart about yourself and to be smart about others on the stage, that's why the theatre is important. Because it promises something in all of us. That is why it is gratifying that a Parliament, which we are seeing here today, has agreed to strengthen our theatres. With the proposal here we are proposing to raise the category called Section 5, so that you can strengthen more theatres, put more power behind it, give a state subsidy for something more, so that you can also gain more geographical equality. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from Dansk Folkeparti had a significant point in relation to among others. Fredericia Theatre, which is one of the theatres we promise, is that it has long performed something special in relation to musicals. It is nice that with this proposal we can help to lift it, because it is a form of entertainment, a kind of theatre, if you can say so, which many Danes enjoy, and which stimulates, also for song and joy. So I think that was an important point, as the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen had. The regional power centres, as we call them, are also an expression of what Mr Left. Kim Valentin mentioned that you get more culture for the money and that you put in where it is possible to give a cultural boost. I think it is exciting and good that with this bill we can just reach out and support some theaters who do good and exciting, and especially the three chosen: Fredericia, Randers and Vendsyssel. Before that, Mr. Peder Hvelplund here, and we also had the Conservatives' representative of the Hjørringkrediet before, but Vendsyssel Theatre is a theatre which is the first newly built theatre in 100 years in the province. So making a cultural outpost in a place where there has not been the same focus is something that we should welcome, something that is beautiful, and it is positive that we can support it here with the bill. I am pleased to be able to support this as a working minister of culture. There were a number of specific comments from the various parties on which I would just like to comment. First of all, in relation to the Radical Left's, sir. Nils Sjøberg, who mentions this with the local anchoring. I know that is something that the Socialist People's Party too is concerned with, and also the Enhedslisten. I believe that everyone is concerned at the fact that when we have theatres that are now being lifted and strengthened with state support, we must be careful not to go where the local anchoring is missing. We must, of course, look at this and listen to it, and I will be awake to the whole committee process to ensure that this is done properly. Conversely, we should remember to take due account when it is the state, when it is the municipalities that contribute with the economy, when we then also have a hand in dealing with what is going on in these theatres, and do not come into a situation where theatrical boards can be self-complementary. So there's a balance we have to keep here. I also liked as acting Minister for Culture that other rapporteurs chose to use the opportunity to also raise a more general cultural policy debate. I think that Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party, made an important point about what culture is contributing to and how important it is and how important it is that it is put high on the political agenda. So thank you for that contribution. I think that was very important points. Mrs Birgitte Bergman is also mentioned that there has never been such support as we are experiencing in these days, in relation to culture. We should be pleased about that. Would you like an even stronger economy for this area? Yes, of course you could, but I also think that most people can understand that in a situation where there are many challenges, many needs, it is necessary to take things in the order in which it can be done. And I can only rejoice that there are some who are pushing for even more in this area, but I think we have a nice profile in Denmark. Much of what needs to be done is not only about crowns and ears, but also about cultural enthusiasm, commitment and the fact that more people are reaching out for the offers that already exist. But thank you for your comment. Then I was also pleased with the contribution of the Alternative and Mr. Uffe Elbæk's support for the proposal here. It matters that the alternative also goes in and supports the proposal here. I heard the remark that one would have liked to have been in the vote agreement and so on. I think it will impress some of the parties present here today that there is an interest in lifting up and joining. We must try to listen to that. But thank you for your support for this good bill. In general, I think we have had a good and broad support for this draft law. We should welcome that and I will press as much as I can for it to be done in the best possible way, so that the views mentioned here at first reading are taken into account in the best possible way, so that the good cooperative spirit we have had on this important proposal is also followed up in committee work. So thank you very much for the many remarks. Thank you to the many participating virgins. Let us have a very good committee. I look forward to working closely with the committee in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023173016	Thank you very much to the working Minister for Culture. There is also a maiden chairman today, as this is the first time I have been in the chair. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191023173046	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 24 October 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
