ParlaMint-DK_20190301100005	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing of Sjúrður Skaale, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 8 March 2019 onwards he can again meet in Tinget. Rigmor Dam's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews, but on the basis of the many submissions, I shall not read the titles. These can be found in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. The Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities (Eva Kjer Hansen): Bill No. L 195 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a reduction in elderly care and financial compensation for municipalities for the growth of older citizens), motion for a resolution No B 119 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legal basis for municipalities for the establishment of free WiFi for the benefit of citizens and businesses) and motion for a resolution No B 116 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of free WiFi for the benefit of citizens and businesses) B 129 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on more housing and lower rents in general housing as a result of low interest rates). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Rune Lund (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 117 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the publication of calculations by central government). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 118 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of long-term investments in green conversion). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 120 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a crisis centre targeted at double minority LGBTQ persons). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 121 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution requiring the government to require a reservation of welfare in the EU). Finn Sørensen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 122 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the obligation of employers to publish a job), motion for a resolution No. Β 126 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of ID cards in the construction industry), motion for a resolution No. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a clarification guarantee for persons in the cash assistance system) and motion for a resolution No. B 140 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on work permits for EU/EEA citizens). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 123 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the supervision of foreign capital funds starting acquisitions in Denmark) and motion for a resolution No. B 125 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better consumer protection in relation to financial products). Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 124 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on qualified majority voting in the event of Danish participation in wars). Karina Due (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 127 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ceiling for the care of animals placed on the premises). Rasmus Prehn (S), Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Roger Courage Matthisen (ALT) and Karsten Hønge (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 128 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of social dumping in the bus industry). Jacob Mark (SF) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 130 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of leisure facilities for children and young people in Denmark). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the launching of a study on cooperatives). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of Braille labelling on packages of veterinary medicinal products). Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the indexing of child benefit for EU citizens). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the termination of the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness). Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Liselott Blixt (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal language requirements for doctors in Denmark trained in EU/EEA countries and third countries) and motion for a resolution No. B 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on equal qualifications requirements for doctors in Denmark who are trained in EU/EEA countries and third countries respectively). Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on cheaper fruit and vegetables). Christian Juhl (EL) and Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the registration of the place of birth in passports and driving licences).
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100251	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100321	Thank you for that, President. By 1 April, we in the Danish Parliament will have to ensure that transfers of funds between EU countries and the Faroe Islands and Greenland can be made according to the strict requirements for information adopted by the European Union. Denmark is part of the European Union, while neither the Faroe Islands nor Greenland are part of the European Union, and this is precisely why the Faroe Islands and Greenland, after 1 April, would be seen as third countries, for example. India and Mexico, and of course no one in the Kingdom community is interested in that. With legislative proposals L 168 and L 169, we will ensure that the EU regulation on the information to be sent through transfers of funds will also apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In this way, we will contain money laundering, money transfers to terrorist organisations and transfers from organised financial crime. We never know where these monsters put their heads forward, and therefore it makes good sense for the legislative proposals to be implemented. The fight against money laundering and financial crime must never stop, but at the same time we must ensure that immediate transfers between the Faroe Islands and Greenland and EU countries continue to be possible 24/7 throughout the year. Social democracy supports the legislative proposals and, of course, we want the utmost flexibility for Faroese, Greenlandic and Danish companies and financial institutions based on the conditions required by the European Union to ensure that so-called bandits in Habits are not given free rein. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100505	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100513	Thank you for the floor. The Socialist rapporteur has, of course, pointed out in an excellent way the conditions under which these draft legislations have been put forward. The two legislative proposals we are considering will ensure that all relevant information is sent in connection with transfers of funds to the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively. As announced by the Minister for Business, the two draft laws have been prepared in close dialogue and cooperation with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and the legislative proposals will ensure better and strengthened action against money laundering and terrorist financing. Against this background, the Danish People's Party can support the L 168 and L 169 Bills. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100604	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100612	Thank you for that, President. As has already been explained by my two excellent colleagues, we are dealing here with two legislative proposals relating to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and the aim of the proposals is to implement a number of EU directives and regulations in Danish legislation which relate to the information to be supplied by transfers of funds within the Kingdom Community. In the Left, of course, we want to strengthen and modernise cooperation in the Kingdom community. The cooperation will benefit everyone in the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark. The legislative proposals here will ensure that the same rules apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands as apply to Denmark. Greenland and the Faroe Islands want financial regulation to be strengthened. They also want more action against criminal access to, and abuse of, the financial system. We in the Left can easily see the wisdom of that. The flow of black money in the financial sector is damaging international development, and that is why we must, of course, fight it together. With the Second Money Transfer Regulation, financial companies in Greenland and the Faroe Islands will be able to transfer and receive money on an equal footing with Denmark. New requirements are being made for information about the payee to be sent with and it allows day-to-day transfers to and from the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Greenland is a member of international cooperation within the framework of the financial action group against money laundering, financing and terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the so-called FATF, and Greenland is therefore obliged to follow their recommendations to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. And with this proposal we also ensure that Greenland lives up to their part of the cooperation. The legislative proposals will ensure that there is a more uniform regulation in the financial field in the Kingdom Community, and it is important that Greenland and the Faroe Islands are not seen as third countries in terms of transfers of funds. Against this background, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the legislative proposals, and I would like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they can also support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100821	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100828	Greenland and the Faroe Islands enjoy the great privilege of not being members of the European Union, and the two legislative proposals here aim to implement provisions for the Faroe Islands and Greenland which are equivalent to the provisions of the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council on information to be included in transfers of funds. For Enhedslisten, it is crucial that the Folketing generally follows the wishes of the Greenlandic and Faroese authorities for legislation dealing with Greenlandic and Faroese matters. I understand that the draft law has been submitted to the Greenlandic and Faroese authorities for consultation, where it has been indicated by both parties that they want the rules proposed here. It is my expectation that the Minister of Business will listen very carefully to the Faroese and Greenlandic wishes when laying down the detailed rules as described in Section 2 of the Bills, and on that basis Enhedslisten can support the two Bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100921	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301100930	Thank you. We know that money laundering and terrorist financing are boundless, in other words, in the way that it moves across national borders, and therefore, of course, it must also be fought internationally. That is why I do not agree with the previous rapporteur that it would be a special privilege to be allowed to stand outside the fight, because the legislative proposals we are discussing here implement an EU regulation in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands respectively. In the Liberal Alliance, we basically support the aim of the regulation to prevent, detect and investigate cases of money laundering and terrorist financing, and on this basis, of course, we support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101012	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101018	I did not quite understand the rapporteur's remark that it should not be a privilege to decide as much as possible in his own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101026	I don't think it's a privilege. When you have international problems and it is both terrorist financing and money laundering; we can see in some of the scandals that have been rolled out that activity is going on across borders and you want to fight them seriously, you also have to do so internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101045	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101046	I fully agree with that, but it is a privilege to be able to decide in one's own country and also have what Greenland and the Faroe Islands currently have, namely autonomy or at least partial autonomy. And that's why it's important that we just treat this as confirmation that the decision that Greenland is making is also being taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101107	But we also have autonomy in Denmark, even though we are a member of the European Union. And in this particular case, and in relation to this specific issue, I believe, contrary to the questioner, that it is a privilege for us to resolve cross-border problems by common forces and by joint action across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101126	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101134	Thank you. I've been allowed to stand for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist today. The legislative proposals implement the EU's Second Money Transfer Regulation across the EU and harmonise the rules on money transfer. The purpose of this Regulation is to prevent money laundering from illegal activities and terrorist financing through payment service providers, inter alia: banks. Financial companies in the Faroe Islands and Greenland will be able to transfer and receive transfers of funds on an equal footing with Denmark without the additional requirements for transfers of funds to third countries. We support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101215	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101227	Thank you, President. In line with the other rapporteurs, we are in favour of the legislative proposals. Whitewashing is, unfortunately, a phenomenon that can threaten all communities and all countries and all nations, as well as other forms of organised crime in the financial sector, and that is why we are pleased that Greenland and the Faroe Islands can also be better protected, just as we, I hope, even in the southern part of the kingdom community, have been better protected for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101258	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101312	In line with my colleagues from the other parties, in the SF, we also support the two proposals that are being discussed here as laws for the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively on information to be included in transfers of funds, both because it will ensure the whole Kingdom community in relation to crime and money laundering, which we have unfortunately seen countless and very comprehensive examples of in recent years, but also because it is a strong desire from both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. So SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101351	Thank you. The next one is sir. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101415	Thank you. It's Bill No. L 168 which aims to make the information to be supplied by means of transfers of funds and draft requests the same and to put the law on money laundering into force for the Faroe Islands that are first processed. The EU has introduced a new regulation on transfers of funds and it does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, as the others have said. And since we are not a member of the European Union, the fact that the Faroe Islands are granted third country status in relation to the European Union in terms of transfers of funds can in itself lead to the impractical situation, as is the case with Greenland. Despite the fact that we are outside the European Union, the Faroe Islands and, as I understand it, Greenland also participate in international cooperation against money laundering and terrorist financing. That is why we also have a desire to upgrade the standard of credit transfers, so that the Faroe Islands too have strengthened regulation and action against criminals' access to abuse of the financial system. This bill then implements the same rules as are expressed in the provisions of Regulation 2015/847/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, the Minister of Business is also authorised to make changes to the regulations to adapt them to the Faroese or Greenlandic conditions. The law will ensure financial companies in the Faroe Islands the possibility of transferring and receiving credit transfers on an equal footing with Denmark and avoiding additional requirements imposed on third countries. However, as the matter of financial regulation in the Faroe Islands has not yet been resolved, there is a need for a Danish law for the Faroe Islands, with which the provisions of this regulation will apply to the Faroe Islands. It is, if not impossible, then at least difficult for a layman to understand the now very complex rules that apply to the financial sector, so I would hate to get further into the technical discussions, but only to recognise that the financial sector is gradually being regulated in accordance with key EU regulations, which are also being implemented in other cooperation countries. Føroya landstýri has a desire for the legislation on the Faroese banks to be as up-to-date as possible, but it has also been pointed out that it is sometimes too slow to have the relevant legislation implemented for the Faroe Islands, and this can cause problems when the legislation is not updated. This legislation on money laundering is an example of this. This can be corrected by strengthening the existing cooperation between the Danish and Faroese authorities in the area and involving the Faroese authorities in the legislative process at an earlier stage. The established professional competences in the Faroe Islands such as the Risk Board, Føroya váðaráð, and the National Bank, Landsbanki Føroya, would like to contribute to this process and would also be useful in adjusting the legislation in the financial field to suit the Faroese situation in the best possible way. A strengthened effort should also include a review of existing procedures for the adoption of amendments to the law applicable to the Faroe Islands, for they should apply both to laying laws, royal regulations and to the laws of the Kingdom. The Faroese Minister for Finance has, in a letter, pointed out that it has unfortunately happened more than once that laws have been passed in the Folketing without having been put forward in the Latting at all. For example: The Act on Financial Stability was amended five times between 2012 and 2015, without the draft laws being submitted to the Faroe Islands for consideration in Løgtingið. Unfortunately, we also note that the amendment to Section 117 of the Act on Financial Activities, adopted by the Danish Parliament on 18 December 2018, was also not submitted to Løgtingið. This needs to be corrected because, as I said, they must be dealt with in Løgtingið before they can enter into force for the Faroe Islands. So with these pragmatic desires for enhanced cooperation, an earlier involvement in the legislation and a thorough overhaul and tightening up of the procedure, I would strongly recommend that Parliament support the proposed law, L 168, which applies to the Faroe Islands, on information to be included in transfers of funds. I can also say that the same proposal has been made in yesterday's Latting and efforts are being made to hold a parallel discussion in both parliaments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101911	Thank you for that to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mrs Rigmor Dam, Javnaðarflokkurin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301101926	Thank you. It is essential to cooperate across national borders in order to prevent money laundering and other financial crime, including terrorist financing. For processing purposes, the Faroe Islands are allowed to provide information to be included in transfers of funds. The law includes a set of rules in which the Faroe Islands and Greenland are treated in the same way as Denmark and other EU countries in connection with money transactions to third countries. The proposal has been put forward by the Minister for Industry and is part of the fight against financial crime, including money laundering, which seeks to strengthen regulation and action against criminals' access to abuse of the financial system, including via the Faroe Islands. Thus, financial companies in the Faroe Islands can in future make and receive transfers of funds on an equal footing with Denmark without the additional requirements that are otherwise imposed on transfers of funds to third countries. At the same time, banks will be able to carry out an account transfer at the same time 24 hours a day throughout the year, a so-called immediate transfer. In addition, the processing of transactions is simplified so that ordinary citizens do not automatically end up in the previously fine meshed network, but so that they go for the big fish and use the resources there. From now on, we, as citizens, must also be able to identify the recipient of the money that we are transferring and therefore cannot escape responsibility. Of course, we are very pleased that these rules will also apply to the Faroe Islands, as combating financial crime requires effective and rapid action by all parties across national borders. If the Faroe Islands are not subject to the same rules as Denmark and the rest of the EU, we will soon be banned from transferring money to EU countries, including Denmark, and we cannot have that. So we can only endorse the bill and hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible. For the sake of good order, let me conclude by stressing that the draft law is the result of constructive cooperation between the Danish and Faroese authorities and that we are grateful for a small but nevertheless important detail, namely that the law has put in some detail that Faroese authorities should be consulted in matters such as this, which is not a matter of course, as the financial area is still a Danish matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102231	Thank you. The next is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, Inuit Ataqatigiit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102244	Thank you very much. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the bill, and we have found it important to take part in this debate too, so Greenland will also have a vote in the debate. We note that neither Naala Suisut nor the financial institutions have made any comments on this hearing, but we interpret it as an implied acceptance. However, we also believe that there are a number of brief and very general comments which are important to be made in this debate. Firstly, it has been a very short consultation and there has been no time for the normal consultation processes provided for in both the Self-Government Act and the Ministry of State's guidance to the ministries on the handling of cases relating to Greenland. In this case, there has been broad agreement on the bill and, above all, on the importance of the bill, as it would otherwise mean that it would not be legal to transfer money between Greenland and Denmark and vice versa if we did not accede to this law. So, of course, we all have an interest in that. In 2015, a joint Greenlandic-Danish report on the promotion of commercial business cooperation between Greenland and Denmark was published. pointed out the need to update the legislation on the business sector in Greenland as a Danish area of responsibility, so it came in line with Danish legislation. So we would like to remind the government of this, and we would like to call for a good, practical solution, so that emergency law does not become a practice, but more an exception. Secondly, the draft law also provides for penalties to be imposed by up to six months in the event of deliberate or gross violation of the law. Does this also apply if the infringement has occurred in Greenland, where we have neither punishment nor imprisonment? If so, should an infringement be served in Denmark? We think that should be unveiled before the second reading of this bill. With these comments, we approve the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102447	Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs, and then it is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102504	Thank you for the comments on the bill and for the positive reception of it. It is true that we have been a little busy getting it in place, and we do, simply because it would be a pretty big problem if we could suddenly not transfer money between Greenland and Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Denmark, and also between Greenland and the Faroe Islands and the rest of the European Union. This will be quite a challenge for the financial sector in both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and we would like to solve that, which is why we have been busy. However, it seems that we can get it in place so that we do not have the great challenge. Basically, we implement the 2nd Money Transfer Regulation in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which means that the same rules will apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands as they do in Denmark. The aim of the EU rules is to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. This is happening, among other things. here, by the fact that there are some requirements as to the information to be provided when transferring money, regardless of the currency in which it takes place, when at least one of the payment intermediaries is established in the EU. With these two legislative proposals, information on the payee will have to be provided in future when money is transferred, and this is new to the rules in force. In this context, transfers to and from Greenland and the Faroe Islands are to be regarded as within the European Union, even if they are not members of the European Union, and that means that, in this way, you will, like you, become part of the way of transferring money that we have within the European Union. In this way, you will find yourself in the happy position of getting some benefits that you have in being part of the system that is established in the European Union, and that is for all practical purposes the best. I can tell you that there is support for the legislative proposals in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and I am naturally looking forward to a constructive discussion if there are any challenges that will be identified in the committees when the two legislative proposals are examined. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102741	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102745	I have no comment on the content of the proposal. I would just like to hear the Minister why it is a recurring problem not only to comply with the deadlines necessary for both Greenland and the Faroe Islands to be able to deal with the proposals, but also generally to comply with consultation deadlines on the matters we have before us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102810	I don't dare answer that. I have here a few days ago, I think, received a letter from the Faroese Home Rule Member Kristina Háfoss regarding the challenge, and I will of course look into what has been of challenge in relation to urgent procedure. Of course, we want time for both Greenland and the Faroe Islands to deal with the legislative proposals relating to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That goes without saying. So if there is a challenge there, of course we will deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102848	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102849	Well, I fear that the Faroese and the Greenlanders see it as such, that in Denmark it is seen as a pro forma expedition when it happens several times. And I would like to urge the government to ensure during the rest of its reign that these deadlines are observed so that the people to be heard are also heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102914	Of course it isn't. We have only one wish on the part of the Danish Government, and that is to help the financial sector in Greenland and the Faroe Islands to function in the best possible way, and that is also what we are trying to do here. It is not the case that there is such a special Danish agenda. We just want things to work and that money can be transferred without there being major challenges, and then we try to make it work as quickly and efficiently as possible. And in this matter we have made quite a lot of effort to get an understanding with the Commission on how we can make this work for the benefit of Greenland and the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102953	Thank you. Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301102955	Thank you. I just want to keep going a little bit along the same lines. It is this proposal that you get enhanced cooperation, that you can get an earlier involvement in the legislation by the authorities in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and that you might embark on a thorough overhaul and tightening up of procedures to meet the requirements for legislation to be adopted in the Faroese Laying before it becomes valid. What is the Minister's view of responding to these requests?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301103029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301103031	Well, of course I look very positively at ensuring that we have a good procedure, and we then engage in dialogue with the national leaders in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland if there is a desire to do so. As I said, we have only one agenda, and that is to make things work so that the economy of Greenland and the Faroe Islands can have the opportunity to work without there being a lot of barriers to trade that make it impossible to transfer money. I mean, we still have a role to play in making the financial sector work. I think we have an excellent dialogue with both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and it is my general impression that the cooperation works well. However, I have also noted that, at least from the Faroe Islands, it has been said that in some situations the consultation period does not seem long enough. I have to say here that we have been busy and that it has been crucial to put this in place. It is very important for the economy of Greenland and the Faroe Islands that this works, and we have made great efforts to get this done for the sake of Greenland and the Faroe Islands and of course not for any particular consideration of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301103156	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Faroes Committee and the Greenland Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301103212	It's the Minister of Business first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301103247	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. It is a motion for a resolution called motion for a resolution (Doc. B 78, which deals with an authorisation system for undertakers. The motion for a resolution, if adopted, will require the government to put forward a legislative proposal to introduce an authorisation system for undertakers to ensure that funeral and funeral funeral services and funeral services are carried out with dignity. This is, of course, a purpose which the government supports. It's probably hard to find two views on it. Of course, the government doesn't want it to happen, as no one else wants it, that relatives should be burdened with a difficult situation, that there are bad undertakers who act wrong, charge unexpected fees or don't do their job well enough. However, the government does not agree that a statutory licensing system is the answer to the challenges that the industry may have. Let me try to explain why. First of all, it is important to stress that in a good enough relatively old consumer survey there is in fact evidence that the survivors are largely satisfied with the benefits they receive from the undertakers. Secondly, the industry has done a great deal to strengthen the quality of its territory. It has been possible for the undertakers to be certified through some different ISO or DS standards for a number of years. There is a certification scheme that was introduced in 2013-2014 and, as I have been informed, more than 100 undertakers have taken advantage of it. In order to have such a certification, there must be transparency about prices and services, and you must follow the professional association's •named Danske Beddemander •Ethical guidelines. As a result, relatives and survivors are already able to choose an undertaker who is certified and complies with the guidelines for good behaviour and transparent prices. The steps that have thus been taken in the industry must be acknowledged, and our view is that we should build on that. Thirdly, it is a concern that an authorisation system could lead to a weakening of competition on the market and that it could lead to higher prices and worse services. An authorisation system may constitute a barrier to entry into the industry. It is therefore in danger of providing consumers with poorer services and of becoming less competitive. At the end of the day, quality suffers, and it also goes beyond the price that the relatives will pay. Fourthly, we believe that we can develop some other initiatives in line with the latest certification system, which could create better conditions for the survivors without creating the negative effects on competition that an enforced authorisation system risks doing. The fact that in a sector there may be dissatisfaction with quality often comes up, and it is also often suggested to set up licensing schemes. This has also been done in a number of other industries. But basically it is not a solution that the government is very inclined to follow, because we believe that there are these challenges that I have just explained, namely that it is hardly for the benefit of consumers if too many people are excluded from entering and providing a service. However, we are in favour of transparency so that consumers can make an informed choice. In general, we believe that this is better for consumers than for us to prevent some from entering an industry and helping to deliver high quality, innovation and to do things sensibly. The motion for a resolution refers to the fact that, in the event of a death, relatives are particularly vulnerable and therefore are not seriously considering which undertaker they will choose and what they will pay for it. I agree that this is probably the situation we find ourselves in. In the case of funerals, there is certainly very little price-oriented. You want to do the best for the deceased, and there may not be much price to the skeleton, because you really feel a little guilty about it, if you sit and think that now you try to get a funeral as cheaply as possible. In 2006 the Consumer Protection Agency examined the satisfaction of the undertakers, and the consumer statement showed that even before the introduction of this certification scheme, which I have mentioned, consumers were quite satisfied with the undertakers' handling of the tasks. The undertakers received a rating of 8.7 on average on a scale from 0 to 10, where 0 is very dissatisfied, and 10 is very satisfied. 83% of the relatives were very satisfied, and only 1%. was very unhappy. In the consumer survey, some of the disgruntled relatives criticized the undertakers for, among other things: to deliver a more expensive coffin than agreed without giving a discount on the price. Some relatives criticized the undertaker for not giving themselves sufficient time to do the job properly. I am not aware of recent investigations into the area, but, as has been said, this certification scheme has been introduced since then, and the Consumer Council Think has prepared a mortician who can help the bereaved to choose a certified undertaker. In fact, it would probably be useful if there were more consumers who knew that there are these opportunities to go for themselves to some undertakers who are certified. That is, in fact, a bit like having an authorization system. Some specific requirements are met and, if consumers are aware of this scheme, they also have the opportunity to choose those who comply with certain guidelines and thus probably also have a high quality in the services they provide. If the relatives want to be on a little more safe ground, there is a good opportunity to choose one of the ones I have been informed of, more than 100 certified undertakers, who today exist throughout the country. The Government therefore takes the view that there may be grounds for further strengthening this certification and, instead of adopting the resolution, the government is therefore proposing initiatives aimed at strengthening consumer knowledge in this area, including raising awareness of the latest certification system, and at increasing the number of certified undertakers included in the scheme. Therefore, the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority will conduct a number of digital campaigns under the Ministry of Industry, including: On the Danish Agency's consumer-oriented website, Bruges dk., and on social media. In addition, dialogue is initiated with the Consumer Council Think, and the board will also initiate a dialogue with the trade association Danske Bedemander for discussions on how to get more certified undertakers here in Denmark. In summing up, the government does not support the resolution, but it can be said that the resolution has set in motion that we have at least thought carefully about what we can do instead to increase quality and avoid the challenges that may be in the industry. We believe that the aim should be to increase consumer awareness of the current certification scheme and to increase the number of certified undertakers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104123	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104128	I would like to say at the outset that I do not really care whether it is called an authorisation system or a certification system. These are just words, and it is good that a certification scheme is then promoted. Then it can't be called an authorization system. It's fine for me; it doesn't matter. I am actually basically puzzled by the argument. If you now order a carpenter to come and do carpentry work, we expect and assume that there are certain qualifications that enable the carpenter to do it, and you can say that there must be a free market and that it does not have to be carpenters who do it when we order a carpenter, so that someone like me can come instead. But the prerequisite for the existence of a system also means that one can do one's job. It is deep down in our entire tradition of craftsmanship that there are certain subjects to be able to do. I do not think it is right that we should be able to walk in from the street and stand up as an undertaker from one day to the next. I simply do not think so, and there is one reason why I do not mean it, and that is that it is respect for the deceased, respect for the relatives and respect for what death brings, so to speak, to things that must be done, where it must be done in the most dignified and proper way. So the thing about discussing the market and prices seems okay to me sometimes I think it might be a little expensive but that's just not what I'm proposing. I just propose basically that you know what you're dealing with when you go out and you're an undertaker, and then you can call it a certification scheme. But I do not understand the Minister's argument. I don't. This isn't just like everything else. This is a question of a death that is going on where you expect things to be done in a proper way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104331	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104333	I fully agree with that and, of course, it is a very special task and a very special task to carry out a funeral home. There is no doubt about that. That is why we still believe that it is important that there is a high quality in the industry, and our view of how to ensure a high quality is also, as I said, that it is indeed important that there is some competition and that there is an opportunity for people to enter the industry without us putting up too many obstacles to it. If we set barriers for people to enter an industry, we risk that the industry in general will get worse, and that also applies to this industry. The same mechanisms apply. So it is not because what the undertakers are doing is so special that it is not the case here too that it is important to ensure that there is a high quality and that we do not create monopoly conditions which generally lead to poor quality. The difference between a certification scheme and an authorisation system is whether it is voluntary or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104451	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104453	Bad quality for who? Well, I don't understand that. I think it's okay that not everyone can get in. Even, for example, know. the noble profession of cleaning, one must have a course that allows one to find out. But that's not what's in the funeral home business. What's in the funeral home business is that anyone who doesn't know anything about it can walk in from the street. Well, then, you can't say that this is making the quality worse. I just have to say that I cannot understand the argument. I simply do not understand where the Minister is. The Minister may have a lot of opinions about why what I am doing here is wrong, but to say that it is a worse quality if you demand that there are some prerequisites that need to be there to post as an undertaker, I simply do not understand that anyone can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104547	No, but I can't do that. I've tried to explain it to the best of my ability, and if you still disagree, it's an honest matter. I can't ask anyone to understand. I can only express the arguments which I believe there is against a regulation. The quality is, of course, that it is the relatives who must experience that it is a dignified act that takes place and that it is carried out with the care that one can demand. In our view, we run the risk of achieving the opposite if we protect the undertakers from others being able to establish themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104628	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104630	Thank you. P.t. there are 115 shops and 31 undertakers certified through this ISO 9001, and they are all members of Danske Beddemander as a trade association, which then has some tools, for example. If things aren't done according to the rules. Danske Beddemander inquires that there will be an authorisation because they feel pressured by more or less fraudulent companies and undertakers, as we have also seen in the media. I believe that anyone who has had to arrange a funeral for a close family member or other knows, as the Minister himself said, that you are not sitting here looking at the exact amount because it is not a situation in which you are doing it. When Danske Beddemander himself wants such a permit to establish a framework, it could be the trade association that set up a framework for what to take for these services at all... we'd probably make sure there wasn't this wild west, these undertakers who take advantage of the situation in which the survivors can stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104748	It is quite expected that some players in an industry that is already in the industry will think it is great if they are protected against others entering the industry. I think this will be the case in almost every sector. I am sure that bus wagonmen would also think it was great if there were an authorisation system, so only those who had to drive a bus and that no one else could come in and do the job. So it is a very predictable view that, in the industry, an authorisation system would be beneficial because it protects against competition and we do not believe that we should protect against competition. In fact, I think that if you are on the left, you have to think about whether it is not also important that there is some competition, also in this area, precisely because relatives are actually quite vulnerable and in a very difficult situation when there is a relative who is dead. Then it is just not fair if some conditions arise where you can take any price, because there is no proper and well-functioning competition in this area. Poor people who are going to bury their parents and who may have a very, very large bill if there is no proper competition, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104901	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104902	I fully agree with that. However, there may be an authorisation that applies to all those who are on the market and, as the motion for a resolution by the DF also says, it needs to be made clear what the undertakers can pay for at all. Because in some of the examples we have seen in the media, some of them are not certified and then send out bills afterwards. So I do not think there is any difference between having order in this area and having competition between those who have the authorization.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301104936	No, but there is at least the very sure coherence that protecting some players from competition leads to higher prices and probably worse service, and we do not think that this is in the interests of the relatives. Now I have been given the opportunity to study the market conditions here because of this motion for a resolution, and thank you for that, and I think that, next time I find myself in a situation where I am going to be involved in organising a funeral, I will go for a certified undertaker, just as I do, for example. prefers to be cut by a hairdresser who has a hairdresser's education because you want that quality. But we think it should be up to consumers to choose to do so rather than to say by law that we are restricting competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105028	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105031	Thank you. I am almost upset by the argument that comes here. So 1) the Minister stands and says that he would choose a certified one himself, and 2) the Minister says: we must ensure that there is competition. Well, there's wild west right now. So the question is: what are the interests to be taken care of here? Is it those who are standing and have lost and who are in mourning, or is it some bunch of Uberbeddemands who should just be allowed to shoot themselves in without any form of regulation on the market, who should be allowed to assist and not be under any requirements? That's what's happening today. I simply do not understand that. I understand perfectly well the argument that we should be able to have some competition, but right now there are no parameters set up by the state. It doesn't require a sober, proper behavior. So how will the Minister ensure this in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105137	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105138	We believe that competition requires a sober, proper behavior. In fact, I have a very, very strong belief that competition is important in order to provide a proper service in a profession. I don't know if sir. Roger Courage Matthisen thinks that the service in the taxi industry has become much better after Uber closed, but it is a slightly different discussion. But we have a general belief that it is actually important that there is competition for the services you are allowed to sell in Denmark, and we think it is wrong thinking, which has also been abandoned in almost all other areas, that we should have such a low system where only certain people have been allowed to carry out certain professions in Denmark. In general, this is not the way we want things to work in Denmark. In general, we think it is sensible for consumers to choose who they want to use, and then we want to help ensure that there is transparency, so that consumers, for example, can choose those players who meet certain quality requirements through a certification scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105242	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105306	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for addressing this important issue. The social democracy actually shares the wish of the Danish People's Party that the undertakers perform their duties with dignity and respect for the deceased and the relatives. As a relative, as was said here from the platform just now, one is in a very vulnerable situation when one's loved ones are dead. This makes special demands on the undertakers to exercise respectful conduct. I believe that, in such a situation, many people expect that an undertaker is a person of high ethics and morals and a person who is careful to prepare and carry out a funeral or funeral. Fortunately, this is also the case with the vast majority of undertakers in Denmark. Unfortunately, however, several cases in the media and calls from a number of clergymen have shown that there are stingy vessels in the industry. In the vulnerable situation, most relatives do not engage in price negotiations or in other ways question the undertaker's professional expertise when they are in the middle of grief. And if it is a stingy vessel, you can as a relative get a bad treatment and think back for the rest of your life about the farewell with your relatives with disturbing thoughts about anything other than what you should think about, namely a beautiful and dignified farewell to the person you have loved in life and will remember in death. Of course, we should not ignore that here in the Folketing. But how are we supposed to make sure people don't have bad experiences with an undertaker? When we need to find workable solutions, there are both advantages and disadvantages in relation to the issues facing the industry in 2019. For example: a solution with the authorization, which is suitable in terms of education and ethical guidelines, might not be the best to ensure the survivors an affordable price for a funeral or funeral, because competition weakens, and a solution that aims only to ensure a low price will certainly not be the best to ensure a dignified farewell with its close and loved ones. It is the consideration for a dignified farewell and the consideration for the expenses of the survivors that we must try to balance in our solution. And then we have to remember that this is a customer relationship between a seller and a buyer. We do not have a tradition in Denmark to authorize business. That is why the Social Democratic Party is sympathetic to the possible measures that the Minister mentioned in his speech. It is positive that the current certification scheme, which has only been anchored with the trade association for relatively few years, has led the number of certified undertakers to go from 0 to over 120. This is progress in the industry, but there may still be a need to have more undertakers certified and to increase consumer information by providing information on the benefits of using certified undertakers. Social democracy can support actions that can increase the number of certified undertakers. Overall, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal's intention that relatives receive a dignified leave of their deceased and security for not being convicted and paying an overcharge for a funeral or funeral. We think that the government's proposals sound like sensible measures at this stage. If these actions do not prove fruitful in terms of significantly more certified undertakers within a short period of time, we are open to looking at further actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105717	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105719	Well, thank you for your kindness, that's excellent, fine and good. I have to say that when a motion for a resolution is tabled, it is not necessarily the case that we have the result in advance in relation to such a rule. I would like to thank you for your kindness and at least hope that, in relation to perhaps writing a report, there could be something in it. I would recommend that in each case, and then the Social Democrats can say 'yes' or 'no'. I have to say that the Minister has now expressed himself on several occasions, and I think the rapporteur is actually referring to the same thing: a system would put competition out of effect. Normally it is the case that certain skills are required for different subjects, and I suppose that is also the case for an undertaker. There must be minimum requirements and standards for how to do things. That is what I am proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105830	But Mr. Christian Langballe knows that there is no requirement for a hairdresser. Anyone can set himself up as a hairdresser, and then it is up to the consumer to assess whether he has been cut properly when he has been there. With regard to certification, I would like to emphasise that we want many more undertakers to be certified and I think we should go for it. The four measures mentioned by the Minister will, I hope, bring us in that direction, but if they do not, let us take it up again, because then we should do something more. With regard to the fact that competition is being put out of effect, I would say that if we exclude someone from being an undertaker, competition will actually be put out of effect; then we will protect ourselves as an organization from someone coming in from outside. I have also thought, while we have had the case under consideration here, that a new undertaker may well have the empathy that I think is absolutely necessary in order to carry out a fine and good funeral or funeral. You don't have to be in the business for 20 years to do that. Of course you have to learn from each other, but I actually think that a new one should also be allowed in. So I understand that we may be looking at whether we can do something in a report, so let us look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105954	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301105955	It would be with your head under your arm if this scheme I set up would mean that there could be no newcomers in the industry. I have not proposed anything like that at all. What I'm just saying is that there must be minimum standards, and I actually think that the undertaker's profession is something special, all the time you're dealing with dead people, and I actually think that it takes something. And there I think there must be minimum standards that make it with dignity that this is done, and that is why I have proposed an authorisation system or I would like a certification system, because it is the same, because there is no difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110041	Actually, it's not exactly the same thing. However, I am pleased that the rapporteur says that a certification system is sufficient and I would like to give an undertaking that we will work to ensure that it is much more widespread than it is today. And, of course, I also agree that being an undertaker is certainly a very special job to have, and one must be able to deal with these things here in a very, very special way, and I actually think a majority of undertakers do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110115	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110130	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the proposal that we are discussing here and where, as you know, the intention is for undertakers to be subject to an authorisation. According to the authors of the motion for a resolution, because their work is delicate and dependents must therefore be guaranteed that they will not be cheated during a difficult period of their lives, when they have just had to say goodbye to a relative. As a liberal, of course, I support what has been said by the Minister, including the issue of competition, namely that we want fair competition. After all, we often use an authorisation system in cases where it can be said that the profession is associated with a particular safety risk, and then, of course, it must always be defined when there is a safety risk, and that can be at many levels. Experience also tells me that arrangements such as this one would impede access, and hence both the quality and the price that will be paid in a given industry. I fear, therefore, that this will restrict the choices that consumers will be able to have, and I do not think that is fair to the Danes or, for that matter, to new companies who want to offer themselves in a given market. Then there are already several different possibilities to be certified undertaker. For example: can be certified according to ISO 9001 standard, which is offered by the Danish Bedroomers Association. Prayers throughout Denmark are certified according to ISO 9001, and therefore there are already a great many undertakers who show transparency in terms of price and quality. They also follow Danske Beddemander's ethical rules. If you are in the particularly sensitive situation of having a mortician, there is of course an expectation of trust, and many will also typically inquire about close relationships, colleagues, etc. to know whether they have good or perhaps less good experiences with the choice of an undertaker, and that is also a very good starting point to take. There is also ample opportunity on the web and elsewhere to find various reviews of how the undertakers have done so on previous occasions. I have said before that this does not necessarily mean that there will then be no more problems if such authorisation is introduced. The unfortunate cases referred to in the proposal do not necessarily go away because they have an authorisation system. Nor would a course change the basic personality of the undertaker if he or she were to turn out to be unprofessional in his or her work, and in this situation I think it is much better to examine what other people's experiences are. The bedkeeper's reputation in the near, local area will also mean a lot, as in a lot of other areas, where there is no authorisation, but where you stand up for your service and your way of being with your customers. Against this background, we in the Left cannot support the proposal, but would like to thank you for bringing it up. I think this is an important discussion that we should take care of. In conclusion, I would also like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110451	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110455	In other words, what is meant by both an authorisation system and a certification system is that it can be withdrawn again, that certification can be removed and that certification removed. And that is also the point of having it that people can inform themselves about the cases which are going on and which are always all the more unhappy in relation to deaths, because it is so unhappy in advance to lose. And then you might be standing with a mortician who hasn't even put the coffin in before the funeral or at least comes with it at the last minute, and where everything is going on in a mess and in a way that is unworthy. I am, in fact, a great supporter of the free market with the framework that should then also be, and so I have to say that I am a little surprised at the criticism or objections to an authorisation system. I think it is good and fair, and the fact that competition is being put out of effect is simply an argument that I do not understand. The fact that you have to be able to do something for a profession is a good prerequisite. That's the way it is in our craft tradition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110610	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110614	I fully agree with the latter, as it were, with most of the other. But the fact that you have to be able to do something in your profession in order to provide a good service and a good quality to the consumer who, if necessary, has to accept the service, I think is absolutely right. The only question is how to ensure this and how to ensure transparency, so that consumers actually know, or at least have a reasonable assurance, that what you sow is also of a quality that meets the expectations that you might have as a consumer. And there I am just wondering whether what the proposal here raises and that is the objection I make to it would be the one that could protect the consumer. I think that what will protect the consumer in this context, as in a series of other contexts, when you are out buying some kind of service, is precisely that you can see through it, that you can ask that you can see experience, that you can see recommendations, that you can see all the things that need to be done. This is, of course, the best way in which any liberal profession can offer itself to future potential customers: to show that, as Mr. Christian Langballe rightly says something can be done in his trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110720	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110724	Well, you just have to go out on the Internet to know that it's also a clone. In fact, I believe that the funeral home is today. And it's not because there aren't many undertakers who do it properly. I don't have to deny it at all and I know several of them because I've had contact with them myself. However, even on the Internet, there are certified pages that allow you to be relatively sure that the pages you are entering are proper. In other words, this is a matter of minimum standards in terms of creating proper conditions. That doesn't mean people have to be shut out. It just means that there must be minimum standards in relation to how to do things and that if you violate the minimum standards, your authorisation can be withdrawn again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110817	But I really do recognize that, as I do, the deep desire that I can hear from Mr. Christian Langballe, given that this is an important area where you are in a delicate situation. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who does not want to create any opportunities for the person or family who is in such a situation to be able to choose a decent and honest undertaker. But I would just like to say that I do not agree that this should be the tool that is being proposed, because I can mention a number of other sectors, where there are no authorisations, but where you can also be judged by the actions you carry out in your profession as a professional. And I think that is far, far stronger than we were about to introduce some kind of minimum set of rules. I can also refer to the remarks made by the Minister that the government is also aware of this. So it will be my starting point that it should be the way around, we should do it, rather than the other things where we want to introduce some form of protection, which I just think will be more, I do not want to say false, but which may not give the right picture of it. And by the way, with all due respect for the examples that are being given: it plunges around with bad examples, but by far, the vast majority of examples from the funeral home are good examples, and fortunately for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110937	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are skipping the Enhedslisten; there is no rapporteur, I understand. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301110950	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. Our business rapporteur was prevented from coming, but I am always happy to stand up and have a good debate with Mr. Christian Langballe. This resolution does not support the Liberal Alliance, and we do not, because we are in favour of free competition. We do not think that in this way we should try from Christiansborg to legislate for service. We have confidence in consumers out there, and we believe that it is they who, through free market forces, must strengthen quality through competition, and that is how it works in a free market, namely that those who do not deliver go out because there are no customers in the store and those who provide good service and good quality will have a good business. So it is a sound principle that we in the Liberal Alliance support, and that is why we do not support this resolution, which we think is detailed regulation of an industry that works well without interference from Christiansborg. So that's gonna be a no thank you from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111109	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111114	I'm gonna have to promise you it was the liberal lira that drove there. I can't believe it. Sometimes you can step out of that room, out of that state-wide competition market, and then try to look at the individual things. I understand from the Minister that he is also over in the superliberal. The reason I'm a national conservative is because you take the parts of reality out and look at them as they are, and not from that schematic layout that just goes out there. I think that cutting the hair of a human being and burying a human being are two different things. Somehow you can regret the cut, the hair grows back, or you can go and get it fixed by another hairdresser. But a death is a one-time event, and so there are some things going on that make me think that there must be some standards. That is what I am proposing, i.e. an authorization system. Then the rapporteur can bring that liberal lira. I just don't think it qualifies the discussion, because we're discussing something special. I am not trying to challenge the free market forces; I am in favour of them. But I am also in favour of a framework, and I am in favour of the fact that things are different, that things are different, depending on their context. That is what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111248	First of all, I would like to say that much can be said about our talented Minister of Business, but calling him superliberal may be just fresh enough. He's not. But I don't really think that Mr. Christian Langballe and the Liberal Alliance then disagree with the goal. We also want funerals and funerals to take place in a dignified manner. We also want undertakers to perform their duties with pride and quality and not cheat customers. Of course we want it. We just disagree with sir. Christian Langballe about how to get there. Are all stumbled vessels removed by introducing legislation from Christiansborg? We don't think so. In fact, we believe that this is best regulated by allowing consumers to opt out of the bad so that they close down and turn off.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111334	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111337	What a licensing system is about is that if someone does it badly, you remove the authorization. That's kind of the point. And I think that is a good and proper arrangement in this area. Then there are other areas where there are other conditions. When I talk about the Minister and call him superliberal, it is actually because the Minister has argued solely from the market. For me, it's actually a little off-the-spot I was a little surprised by it and a little disappointed that quality is a matter of price and market and all sorts of other things. I guess there are also some minimum standards that should apply. Frankly, that is why we are educating carpenters, and that is why we are educating all sorts of other people, in order for there to be minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111425	Sir. Christian Langballe says that what you want with the proposal is that you want to give an authorisation so that, if someone does it badly, you can remove it. What we are saying is that free market forces have exactly the same dynamic. Those who do well survive, those who do badly, close and turn it off. The logic is the same. And in relation to all this liberalism: I do not really believe that it is so much about being liberal or not; it is about reason that we know that competition creates better services and increases quality and thus gives consumers a better product. That is why we are primarily in favour of free competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111502	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111509	Thank you. And I have again been allowed to stand for Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. In 2017, there were over 53,000 deaths in Denmark. It's 53,000 potential funerals. Then we just had the Minister of Business on the platform who said that in relation to 1%. There have been problems, and that means that there are potentially 500 people who have been fucked up and excused, the President who has been taken at the end of someone who has looked up in a profession that requires zero competences. All of you young people can do a business tomorrow, where you are undertakers and women You don't talk to the listeners, you just don't). Okay, but then I would say that all our young citizens in Denmark could look up as undertakers and women. And I really don't understand why we from the state think it's okay. I buried my mother at 27 as the last of my parents. I was at the time in a job where I couldn't help showing up, which means my boss said, "I'll sue you if you don't do your job." So I had to go in the middle of my mother's funeral to go to work. I did not have enough money to examine whether it was also just a certified undertaker, whether it was also just a person who had ethics and morality at the top. And I understand that this is a dilemma we see today, that is, that you do not have it; you are in the midst of a grief that you are in the midst of having lost someone you love. And then you're faced with a liberal cash register... and I really like that concept... and I have to put up with the rhetoric: it's a better relationship. Well, there is no relationship there are no minimum standards that you have to comply with in this country to be in a profession that affects such an important phase of a person's life. I think that's really, really bad. So we can only support the fact that we will have minimum requirements which must be met by people who carry out funerals and deaths and that this authorisation can of course be withdrawn if these requirements are not met. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111734	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111737	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur's position is on the consumer council Think is not recommending an authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111749	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111751	My position is actually that I see the same potential that the Minister also mentions, in other words that we can strengthen the certification system, that we can strengthen through information, and that is fine. I'm just afraid that the potentially 530 people a year out of the 53,000 who bury some loved ones are in a situation like me or like the others we've read about in the media who have had a really, really bad experience. I think that there would be some minimum requirements to be introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111823	Thank you, and there are no more comments. I do not see that the Radical Left is present, so we are moving forward with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301111847	Let me start by saying so that I do not forget that I have also promised to salute from the Enhedslisten, which, like the SF, supports the motion for a resolution of the Danish People's Party. When you have tried to bury or beside a close family member, you know how vulnerable a situation you can be. I tried it myself when I was 21 and my mom was going to be buried. It went well, but at least I know personally that it is not in the situation where you are really sensible and start negotiating the price. Some inquiries have been made by Danske Bedemander to us politicians asking for our help because they feel run over by bogus companies and by undertakers who do not meet the standards they want in the industry. The minister argues for those who are already on the market and where, for selfish reasons, the trade association would like to exclude other people, but here we just agree with Danske Beddemander that in such a particular situation, where it requires finesse, where it requires dignity, where it requires that you have some standards for what prices you can take, it is good to have a license. There are currently 115 jobs spread over 31 undertakers who have this ISO 9001 certification. Then there are also, it has become known to me, a number of what should one call it "fake certifications," where some say that they were certified by the church's IT or certified by themselves, or whatever it may be. We think that order and practice should be applied in this area with an authorisation which, by its very nature, can be deprived of those who do not meet these standards, and that is why we support the motion for a resolution tabled by the DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112108	I would like to put the same question to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen: what is the rapporteur's position on the fact that the Consumer Council does not think
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112119	I usually listen very carefully when the Consumer Council Think about it. So do I in this case. If we in the SF do not lean on the Consumer Council in this matter, it is because we simply do not agree that the certification system that already exists today is good enough, that the consequences are large enough and that it is used to such an extent that it alone can justify it. Then the Consumer Council has thought the generally known view that authorization does not necessarily bring the best prices, a little a la minister who also mentioned that this competition will ensure low prices. I just think we have seen some very concrete examples that, in fact, in many cases, it is those who are not certified that require outrageous prices or send bills afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112225	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments, so that is why it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301112234	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. I would like to say something in principle in relation to this draft law that I have tabled. One can assume as a basic human existential truth that death is rarely a welcome guest, but that it has come to stay, and therefore we have undertakers whom we pay to help us with the practicalities of death when we bury and assist our loved ones. It is not just such an unconscious pragmatism or cold technicality, it is a matter of simply disposing of the deceased in the most rational and cheap way. For the vast majority of relatives, the funeral expresses a final declaration of love, honoring the dead. It is a beautiful feature of human existence that we honor the dead, and the crucial thing is that funeral, funeral, or whatever it may be, take place in as dignified a way as possible. These are reasonable and necessary demands that we can and should make to the undertakers, namely that the work of the undertakers is surrounded by respect and reverence for the deceased and for the relatives. Fortunately, the majority of undertakers do so, but there are also stingy vessels or vessels, to put it bluntly, rotten apples in the funeral home. There are various instances of atrocities going on out there. That's a few, yeah, I know, but there really shouldn't be any. That is why I have proposed an authorisation system which applies to all the undertakers and which ensures that the work of the undertakers is done with dignity and respect. The way it is today, you can just walk in from the street and become an undertaker. In fact, I am not in favour of imposing unnecessary rules or regulations on Danes, but in this respect I think regulation is reasonable. Let me also draw attention to the purpose of my proposal. In Kristeligt Dagblad this morning it was very dramatic to read that this bill from DF hung in a thin thread. Let me get one thing straightened out. It's not about drama, so you're up in that high rent. I do not care whether the scheme I am proposing is called an authorisation system or whether a certification system could be set up. Peace be to it! It's for me to see just semantics. I know that some undertakers have a certification scheme, and it is good for me if you build on something that exists. What is the purpose of my proposal is not that it should be hailed as an original approach, but that there should be orderly arrangements in this area. That's what I'm in favour of. That is why I now think that I am sorry, Minister, that the terms of the discussion are strange, as if the market were regulating everything. It really doesn't. I am in favour of the free market, but I am also in favour of a proper and orderly framework. I do not agree that if we were to establish minimum standards, a certification or authorisation system, this would lead to the elimination of competitiveness, and I do not agree that it would create cartels I do not believe in it. But I believe that when you are in the situation of relatives who have just lost a loved one, it can actually be a little difficult to find out what to do. But the purpose of this proposal is for minimum standards to be set so that we do not get a treatment that is dishonest and then we can call it what we want. There have been various speeches and we can take them in order. The Social Democratic Party's speech was fine; I think we are reaching each other very far along the way. I'm actually very constructive. I just think we should create some orderly relationships. As I said, I am also in favour of competition, but this is simply about minimum standards, and I think that should be there when it comes to something as sensitive as funerals and funerals. There's the left. It is also good to be reminded that competitiveness and quality and everything else are good, and I could not agree more with the rapporteur, but I just think, as I have tried to explain, that there are some special things that apply, and at least I hope that this debate has led to a certain amount of reflection and reflection in relation to perhaps helping to create proper and orderly conditions so that people can be sure that they will receive proper treatment. I say this as someone who has worked as a priest himself for many years, and the things you sometimes hear about, I don't think we can offer them. That's to say what it is. Then, of course, I am glad that I have the support of the left. It is quite new that the Radicals also support my proposal. It's a whole new feeling that suddenly comes to me, and I have to get used to it, I'll say, but it's lovely. The same applies to the alternative. I don't normally agree with the alternative of anything, but exactly in this case, we can meet, and it's nice and nice that it's like that. I would like to say to the Liberal Alliance that I sometimes think that you can step out of that ideological scheme and discuss things in concrete terms. I know you can, so you should give this a thought rather than just discussing the fact that you are in favour of free market forces, etc. etc., because I think it deserves a better and more well thought-out answer. Thank you for the debate and thank you for your support. I hope that there is some sort of temper, and I am certainly constructive. The Minister only needs to call, so I will go to the beautiful office that the Minister has, and then we can easily find out some kind of scheme where there is a minimum standard and some orderly conditions, and that is what has been the whole purpose for me in this respect. It is certainly not to devise something very, very original, but actually just to have some orderly relationship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113023	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113030	Thank you. I just have one question: does the rapporteur think that an authorisation for undertakers would be a guarantee against bad experiences?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113040	No, where there are people, there are no guarantees! Although a carpenter is well educated, the carpenter can do a job that is bad. What I am actually suggesting is that we set minimum standards and, by the way, take advantage of the fact that if, in connection with a funeral, a funeral or whatever, there are quite unworthy conditions, then we can withdraw the authorisation from the person concerned. That's the point. But I do not offer any guarantees on behalf of human beings in relation to the fact that life is perfect, even as far as undertakers are concerned. I would never dream of that, even with the licensing system that I am proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113127	There is no desire for a further question. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. If there are no objections, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113158	The debate is open. I do not see a Socialist rapporteur at first sight, so we are going to go to Mr Beazley. Christian Langballe as rapporteur for DF. Sir. Christian Langballe must of course be allowed to pick up his script. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113302	I'm sorry I just came a little late. However, we have a proposal for a parliamentary resolution which concerns the future inventory of the number of immigrants and descendants of immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113325	That is the wrong proposal. It's Bill No. L 167, we're on it now. It is quite fair that such a thing can happen. It's just a little embarrassing, I'd say). That is what can happen when matters progress a little quickly. I can also see that the Socialist rapporteur has arrived in the meantime. We're just starting over, sir. Christian Langballe, and I now give the floor for the first reading of Bill No. L 167. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113414	I'm sorry about my embarrassing performance. What we are dealing with now is a derogation to the British who live and reside in this country, because if there is a brexit, they may not be able to vote in municipal or EU elections, as the EU regulation otherwise provides for EU citizens, that is, if Britain should leave the European Union, there should be a situation similar to that of British citizens. I actually have it double with this proposal, I have to say. On the one hand, I do not believe that British citizens should vote in Danish municipal elections, nor do I believe that if I lived in England I should vote in a British municipal election. I don't see what the purpose of this is. And that is why I am basically opposed to the idea. On the other hand, I wish the approximately 800 British citizens of Denmark well and would like to be kind to them. In fact, I usually like Britons. They're a fine and good people. But that is more the fundamental part of this, which I do not actually entirely agree with. We are strongly in favour of a 'no' vote, but we would like to wait for the committee procedure and then give a final answer. Thank you for the floor. And apologize for the mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113622	That certainly did not give rise to brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we jump back into the rapporteur's line to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who I believe has taken the right papers with L 167. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113642	That's it, yeah. Thank you for that and I am sorry for the delay as well. I saw from the meeting room of the European Committee that Mr. Christian Langballe was on the platform, and I actually thought that he was still working on the previous motion for a resolution. So I had to get down here when the case dawned on me. Now I'm here, and that's good, I think. It is an historic day today, and it is actually not for anything good. This is the first time we have dealt with two draft laws here in the Danish Parliament, both the present and the L 166, which we will deal with later on, which is the first sign that it is serious about brexit. The two legislative proposals, including what the Minister for the Interior is putting forward here today, are, in fact, a temporary arrangement, as is also laid down in the draft law. And I must be honest and say that I sincerely hope that this will remain a temporary arrangement. From the point of view of social democracy, we find it regrettable in every possible way that Britain is on its way to leaving the European Union. And it is even more regrettable that they are on their way to leaving the European Union without an agreement, and I fully understand the very insecure situation that many British citizens find themselves in these days and months. I myself have been in a lot of dialogue with many inhabited Britons, and I fully understand them. That is why I also think it is gratifying that we in the Danish Parliament can deal with these two legislative proposals which, as far as possible, guarantee the rights of the British resident today and equate them with the rights of EU citizens until, hopefully at some point, Britain's politicians have arrived at how to clarify their future relationship with the European Union, or find out, I would also like to express a slight hope that it might not be on quite so enlightened a basis that they chose to issue a referendum on whether to leave the European Union. Having said that, I would like to say that, of course, on the part of the Social Democrats, we can support the draft law that has been put forward here today to continue the electoral rights of British citizens in Denmark. Unlike Mr. Christian Langballe actually thinks it is a very good thing that the citizens of other countries, when they live here, actually have an influence on local politics in the country in which they live. That's why we can support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113927	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301113932	Now the glove was thrown, so I thought I had to pick it up. Well, I just don't agree with that relationship. I believe that when it comes to local elections, it must be the people who live there firmly. I simply disagree with the idea. I do not see why I, for example. I would like to know what qualifications and what right I have to vote for a British municipal election. The rapporteur is very sorry. I don't really see the purpose of it. I think it is such a multi-culty thing, such a pan-European thinking that the national no longer exists, and now we are moving across national borders, and then we can vote where we are, because we are really just world citizens or at least EU citizens. I do not agree with that thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114026	Well, I respect that point of view. I do not see that it has anything to do with a multiculti approach to anything, as the rapporteur says, and that is also why we distinguish between participation in local elections and participation in national parliamentary elections. I think it makes very good sense that, no matter how long you settle in an area, you actually also have a say in what local politics is, whether it is about whether there should be roundabouts or whether there should be pedestrian crossings that are regulated by light signal or whether it is about regulating the norms in day-care institutions or the like. After all, it invites you to participate in the community and local democracy of which you are a part. And I think that in reality requires that you become a serious part of the society in which you reside, either for a shorter or longer period of time. For many of the British citizens who live in Denmark, they end up here for a longer period. I am comfortable with the fact that they also influence whether there should be roundabouts or whether there should be the sign-off or other local policy issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114133	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114137	Yes, but notice that this is actually a restriction that I am imposing on myself in particular. Because I don't see why I should vote. I can easily live in Britain if that was where I lived and know a lot and have a lot of nice and nice Englishmen as neighbors without necessarily voting. I just don't agree with that way. For communities is therefore something that is more basic and where you don't just come and travel in and then go back out. It is something that you take part in and something that you engage in and something that you really want to do some heart blood for. And you can do that even if you're a foreigner. I just don't see why a foreigner like me, if I moved to England, should actually vote there. Actually, I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114230	Well, I fully agree with the rapporteur about participation in a national parliamentary election. For there we have to assume that there are only a number of basic things that need to be present before that right, including in particular citizenship, has been achieved. But the same can be said of the situation if I move from one municipality to another. Although I have lived most of my life in the municipality of Tårnby, today I live in the municipality of Copenhagen. And I think it is reasonable that, in the area where I live, I should also have a say in how local policy is made. I have full respect for the fact that you can have the opposite view, but I think that this is both a good principle and that it makes good sense in this way to distinguish between participation in local politics and local democracy, because it requires participation, as the rapporteur himself says, and then in the right it is to have the right to vote in national elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114321	It does not appear that it has raised any further questions. We thank the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114330	I'm sorry, I have to say on behalf of the SF that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114334	It's noted. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114341	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. To Mr. Christian Langballe I would just like to say that I simply do not believe that Mr. Christian Langballe could live elsewhere than in Denmark, perhaps even defined right down to Jutland. So it is a relatively theoretical problem that people moved to Britain and had to vote over there. In the Left we think it is very good that you have that opportunity. There are a number of other choices that you can also make up for. You can go to the school board or the daycare board or the cooperative housing association etc. So, taking an active part in Danish democracy, we think that we are really, really fine, and we would very much like those who live in Denmark to engage in local democracy. The left even had a mayor who was not a Danish citizen. She was an American, and she did quite well. But that is not how the general principles we are talking about today. I thought we were actually agreed on this, but we need to talk about how we stand now, when Britain is unfortunately leaving the European Union. We are some who hope that something can happen at the last minute, but as things stand right now, there is exactly one month for Britain to leave, and we still have to say that it is somewhat uncertain how this divorce is going to take place. Is there even going to be a divorce agreement? There are still many uncertainties. We want to minimise that uncertainty for the British who live in Denmark. These are people who have arranged their lives in Denmark on the basis of their rights as EU citizens, and so much of the uncertainty that we can remove, I believe we have a duty to remove. For this reason, during a transitional period, we propose to continue almost all rights under EU law for the Britons who live here in Denmark at the time of departure, and the bill we are discussing here and now must be seen in the context of the bill from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, which is first dealt with later today. With this bill, we ensure that Britons living in Denmark continue to have the opportunity to vote and, moreover, also to stand for local and regional elections in 2021, and we also ensure that we can vote for the forthcoming European Parliament elections, in other words on an equal footing with all other EU citizens. So the bill is an expression of our taking care of the British citizens who have chosen to settle in Denmark and thus contribute to Danish society. I think we have every reason to support this, and I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114625	It seems that this did not give rise to brief comments. So we say thank you to the rapporteur and we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114640	Thank you. I would also like to say to Mr. Christian Langballe, that it is not really up to us to decide whether Mr. Christian Langballe must have the right to vote in Britain if he intends to move there. It's basically the British who decide. We decide who will vote in Danish elections, and that is what this question is about. The draft law follows on from L 166, which we have not yet dealt with. It is a little backwards, but that is the way it is and it is about the fact that, for a transitional period, we are continuing the rights acquired by British citizens in Denmark at the time of a possible hard brexit, i.e. a brexit, where Britain leaves the EU without an agreement, when it comes to the right of residence and to a number of social benefits, etc. We feel that we do not have any hopes or anything else in relation to Britain. It is, of course, Britain's sovereign right to leave the European Union if you want to, just as it would be Denmark's sovereign right to leave the European Union if we were given an opportunity to vote on it. And we believe that the people have a great overview to be able to assess even without advice from wise usurpers in various parliaments. I look forward to once in Denmark having the opportunity to discuss whether it is a good place to be in the present form that the European Union has, but this proposal is not at all about that. This bill deals with the British's right to vote and stand as a candidate in municipal and regional elections and in EU elections. In relation to this issue too, it is proposed that during the transitional period they should be treated as if they were still EU citizens. At the same time, an editorial amendment is made to the electoral law which takes account of the new law on guardianship, so that citizens with a partial withdrawal of legal capacity must be included in the electoral list. These are all sensible proposals and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114842	There is a request for a brief comment to Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114848	I think we can agree very much with regard to EU skepticism. I think we can. But I get a little tired when I discuss something that is in principle and that lies in the arrangement that you want to continue with the arrangement that we say this bill represents, the principle that this bill puts forward... then the rapporteur comes up with something that, frankly, I think is a good day man, an axe handle. In other words, what I am discussing is the timely way in which we are applying this system to British citizens, where I say that, basically and in principle, I think the system is silly. I think it is silly that Britons can vote here, just as it is silly that if I move to Britain, I can vote over there. This was the reason for the considerations I had concerning what we are voting on concerning the proposal. I think that is relevant, frankly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301114959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115003	Well, well, well, well, well, well. I won't comment on Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe's speech was another time. Because I thought I was doing him a favor by just commenting on the challenge he mentioned up here from the platform. But I would like to review this and not comment on it another time. 'Cause I certainly don't want to bother people, either. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115025	Does that give rise to Mr. Christian Langballe wants his second brief remark? No. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115033	Now Mr. Christian Juhl said that he hoped that the Danes would be able to vote us out of the EU one day. Is it Enhedslisten's wish that we should have a referendum as soon as possible on Denmark's membership of the EU, and will Enhedslisten recommend a withdrawal? Because I think there has been a little bit of ambiguity in what Enhedslisten really means on that point, but that is how I understood it in Mr Kellett-Bowman's speech. Christian Juhl's speech, and that is why I just took the floor, because then the press has a little to write about today. If the Enhedslisten wants us to leave the European Union so badly, has the process that has taken place in Britain been reassuring?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115122	Thank you for the question. All Danes under 67 years of age have not been involved in that process at least not with the right to vote. I remember it, and I was so active in it that I experienced the whole process as if I had voted, but I had just been in the campaign because I was not old enough to vote then. At that time, as far as I remember, you had to be 20 years old to vote. And that is why it is a good idea sometimes to confirm that Denmark is a member on the basis of the voters we have in the country. That's one thing. The second point is that Enhedslisten's view is that we should try out a number of important issues that we have described in an EU speech from last year, which it leads too far to present here, but I will be happy to forward it to the questioner. If we cannot have those guarantees, for example. on what Denmark may decide for itself, we want a vote on Denmark's membership not as soon as possible, but well in time, because brexit has shown that leaving the EU is a complicated matter. It is so complicated that the European Union can set its feet for a resignation and not even be helpful there are not even described procedures for how such a process is running. I was a little nervous about that, and that is why we have agreed that we should have at least a year of debate before a vote to discuss all the details of such a process. If we cannot get those guarantees, Enhedslisten believes that we should not be a member of the European Union and would recommend that we vote in order to withdraw from the European Union after a thorough debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115249	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115257	Okay, well, then I'm trying to sum up just to make sure I get it right. The Enhedslisten wants a referendum in Denmark on the withdrawal of the EU. It has to be better prepared than in Britain, but it wants such a referendum. If the Enhedslisten does not get its ten guarantees, or how many it is now, fulfilled, which is then Enhedslisten's definition of how the world is to be screwed up, then would one recommend a withdrawal from the EU? Is that how you're supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115326	This is quite correctly understood by the rapporteur of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115330	After everyone has understood, we thank the rapporteur because no one else has asked for short remarks. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115344	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have, of course, explained the content of this bill, and in the Liberal Alliance we think it is very sensible to make this derogation for the British who live in Denmark, so that if there is a brexit, they are at the forefront and have ensured that the citizens can vote in the forthcoming EP elections and in the next municipal elections. It makes really good sense. Then it is clear that there is some overly fundamental discussion about whether it is reasonable for British citizens to be able to vote in local elections. It's a little outside of exactly this bill, but it's an exciting fundamental debate, as Mr. Christian Langballe is leaving. I would like to say very clearly that we think it is quite reasonable that in the municipality where you live and where you put a lot of tax dollars every eternal month, you have the opportunity to influence how those tax dollars are managed. It would be quite unreasonable just to sit passively and see that your tax dollars were spent on tan and pussy and could not vote for parties that would manage them sensibly. So the principle that you can vote in local elections when you live here seems reasonable to us when that discussion has come up anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115504	This did not give rise to brief comments. We thank Mrs Lindahl and move on to the rapporteur of the Alternative, Mr Lindahl. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115517	Thank you. I'm a standin' for mr. Torsten Gejl. This is already well covered by the previous rapporteurs, so I would just like to say that this is a temporary transitional arrangement that we support. In relation to Mr. Christian Langballe's comment on multiculti we also support multiculti. I would just like to mention that Internation, which is the world's largest global organisation for expats, i.e. people living and living in a country other than their nationality, each year makes a list of how good it is to live and live in individual countries. Of 67, Denmark is no. 65, and we've had that bottom position for 3-4 years. It is not because we are not well in terms of wages and holidays; it is simply basic questions such as: Do I feel well received, do I feel like a part of society, do I feel like an expat, can I make a life here? So being able to influence your local area is a powerful factor in having a good experience of the country in which you live and live as an expat. We support that, and we also believe that we should have far more than Mr. Christian Langballe's words about multiculti, to get there, so we get a little higher on that list.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115639	This did not give rise to brief comments. Thank you, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, and we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115648	The Radical Left can also support the bill. We think it makes sense for our political friends, whatever they may decide on in Britain, to be able to vote in the forthcoming European elections. This is really what this is about, whether it ends with a hard Brexit or it ends with an agreement or what it does. We have every reason to treat the British nicely in this process, which is obviously very difficult for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115716	Nor did it give rise to brief comments, and we now move on to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301115730	Thank you to the rapporteurs for some good speeches. It is, of course, the case that Britain is due to leave the European Union on 29 March this year, and that is about to happen. The only sure thing that can be said about this is that it is completely uncertain what can happen, and that is why we are having this discussion today. Because even if it is a divorce, divorce must be dealt with as properly and as neatly as possible, and we, on the part of the government, would therefore like to ensure that the British living in Denmark are properly treated. After all, all divorces have victims and where children are often the victims of their parents'divorce, citizens can be the victims of the divorce of countries. During a transitional period, the Government wishes, as a starting point, to continue all rights under EU law for the Britons living in Denmark at the time of withdrawal, and therefore the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has tabled Bill No. L 166 to be dealt with later today. And I have tabled the bill we are discussing here which ensures that British citizens living in Denmark at the time of their departure can continue to vote and stand for the local and regional elections in 2021 in accordance with the conditions applicable to EU citizens. In addition, it is also ensured that these Britons can continue to vote and stand for the European Parliament elections like all other EU citizens. It is to be held on 26 May this year. Then there's, like, sir. Christian Juhl quite rightly mentioned, also a single technical adjustment, which is included in the bill, because there was a pure oversight in a draft law from the Minister of Justice earlier in this session. Then it should be borne in mind that there is a slight difference between the situation surrounding the broad proposal and the proposal we have here, because, whether Britain resigns from the European Union with an agreement or without, a law in the field of elections is necessary if British citizens living in Denmark at the time of withdrawal continue to have the same rights to vote and stand for election as they are today. This is because the electoral area is not part of the withdrawal agreement that has been on the table between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This means that the draft law takes into account the situations in which Britain resigns with an agreement; that Britain resigns without an agreement; that the date of withdrawal is postponed; or in so far as Britain withdraws from the EU, it had to happen. The draft law is therefore an expression of goodness and due diligence, and I am grateful for the very broad support in the Folketing, namely from eight out of nine parties. And I guess that's a good place to start. I also heard a loft of openness in Mr. Christian Langballe's rapporteur's speech, because it was said that the Danish People's Party is leaning, perhaps even very strongly, against a "no', but since one is only leaning but has not yet been overturned and therefore has not made the decision, there is surely an openness to the fact that it can be the whole parliament behind this proposal. And since, according to the rapporteur, it is the committee procedure which will determine the final clarification, I am entirely available as usual to answer any questions which the committee may wish to have clarified during the committee procedure and, in particular, to be made available to Mr Van der Klaauw. Christian Langballe, whom I would like to invite to both coffee and lunch, if that is what can make it possible for there to be a good atmosphere where we can talk about things, and if I can answer the questions well, I will convince the rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120159	There are a few requests for short remarks. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120204	You are tempted to be critical of the proposal if it means that you are invited to lunch with the Minister. Well, that's not what the question is about. When the Minister says as he does, does that mean that it is not really a temporary proposal if it is the case that Britain chooses all options other than to return to the EU? No, sorry if they choose all options other than to remain in the EU? Because that's what it's called today, so far here at the end of the month. This means that if they remain in the European Union, this proposal lapses, but if they do not remain in the European Union, whether it is a soft or hard brexit or whatever, it is a permanent legislative proposal. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? For many people it has been called a temporary proposal, and I wonder if it is a temporary proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120300	Has the Minister understood the question?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120301	I think I understood the question now. It is clear that if Britain stays in the European Union, there are just rules that apply. If Britain steps out, no matter how, this bill will ensure that British citizens living here at the time of departure will have the right to vote in the local and regional elections in 2021. The future municipal and regional elections will, of course, be given the right to vote anyway, because they will apply under the rules on third-country nationals because they have lived here for longer than the four years. In relation to the European Parliament elections, it is in this that you can vote for the European Parliament elections if you are a British citizen who has lived here at the time of resignation. This means that, to this extent, we can go to the European Parliament elections this year, and then it is proposed that decisions should be taken when we get well into the 2020s, if, if Britain has left, we still want those who lived there to vote for European elections, or if we have to say: no, Britain has now resigned from the European Union, so you will not come to that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120410	Is there a desire for a follow-up question? No. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120417	It is rare to have such a dinner and coffee invitation in the Folketing, and I would say that if the food does not consist entirely of fruit and vegetable sticks and everything else, it will be good to put some meat on the table! I really admire the rapporteur's energetic and positive interpretation of my partial 'no'. I'm gonna say I poured so much, I almost fell, and I think I'm gonna roll over. But it's just to prepare the minister for what's going to happen. Anyway, I'd like a nice, juicy steak over at the minister's office. That's fine!
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120504	Now this is the Folketing and not a lunch restaurant. Nevertheless, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120510	Well, I think we are putting a lunch agreement on the calendar, and I hope that I can make sure that I am so supportive that the rapporteur does not overturn, just as the rapporteur and his party have been kind enough to be so supportive that the government has not overturned in the last 27 months. And that's how we can help each other. I also think I can promise that not only will there be green on the menu • I can now see that the Alternative's rapporteur has left the Chamber, so I dare to promise that, and if it is even encouraging, there can also be pigs on the fork. And then I forgot to answer Mr. Christian Juhl before that if Mr. Christian Juhl is interested in a luncheon agreement in the Ministry, I would like to offer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120555	It does not appear that anyone has asked to speak in this regard, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120621	The debate is open. I shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301120640	Thank you very much. As has already been said, what we are now discussing is motion for a resolution No. B 37 on the calculation of the number of persons with an immigrant background. The proposers want the government to set up a working group to explain how Denmark's Statistics is to determine the number of people with an immigrant background in the future. The government agrees that a qualified social debate requires a nuanced, objective and comprehensive knowledge base. The government also agrees that there is a need for you to become wiser in this area. The inventory of immigrants and descendants, which Denmark's Statistics publishes every year, means that we already have a good starting point for following developments, and Denmark's Statistics today also publishes inventories of children of descendants. Denmark's Statistics has also prepared and published a more comprehensive inventory of people with migration background in connection with the answer to a parliamentary question. In addition, researchers, stakeholder organisations and authorities have the possibility to access detailed registry information enabling relevant groups to be elucidated, including those with migration backgrounds. But it is also clear that we will need more knowledge in the years to come. It could be particularly useful to have a common knowledge base so that the political debate will be about content and not become a numerical war. Because the debate on immigration is going to take up a lot and has been doing so for many years and will probably also be doing so in the years ahead. Since the parliamentary elections, it has been a major task to get more people with immigrant backgrounds to participate actively in the labour market, and therefore there are among other things. A number of measures have been implemented to increase the benefits of taking a job, and we have also implemented a number of restrictions in the field of foreigners and presented and unveiled an ambitious strategy against parallel societies. The latest population projection from Statistics Denmark shows that by 2050, immigrants and descendants will be close to 20%. of the population. More and more people want parents and grandparents with foreign origins. It is far from certain that the definitions and boundaries we know today provide a good opportunity to follow, understand and act on developments. It is important that it is both clear when developments are running out of track and when integration is successful. From this point of view, the government is in favour of the motion for a resolution in relation to setting up a working group to identify the adequacy of existing inventories of immigrants. That is why we are open to discussing how to do so more specifically in the context of the work of the committee. Among other things, it can be done. by looking at how we can gain international experience, including by including knowledge from other countries' statistical agencies. Finally, I would like to stress that if we find a model for doing so here, it is important that we stick to the fact that Danmarks Statistik is independent in professional matters. The government cannot and will not require Denmark's Statistics to change its current definition. But if, for example, we do. Creating a working group, it can work in a way so that it can provide important input to Danmarks Statistik. And so we could all have a common basis on which to discuss it, and I actually see that as the intention in the proposal. And I wonder if we can find each other in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121022	Sir. Christian Langballe has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121024	It is really just to thank you for your goodwill and constructive approach to it. We appreciate that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121036	I've learned it's important to be good at receiving praise. So thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121045	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121047	I must confess that I do not fully understand the last remarks made by the Minister, which I think were somewhat contradictory. This proposal is to create a political governance of Danmarks Statistik. That's the point of this proposal. That is why I cannot understand why the government can be in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121109	It's just so there's no misunderstanding. What I said was not that the government voted in favour of the resolution. What I am saying is that I am in favour of what I see as the intention, namely that we should look at the question of whether we have the relevant information. We can do that, for example. do by setting up a working group that looks at these things. But then I just said, and there is no contradiction in that, of course, we still respect the independence of Statistics Denmark. There is no contradiction in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121143	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121144	In other words, the Minister believes that Denmark's Statistics has done too badly so far. Could the Minister clarify that criticism a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121158	Now you have to be careful, because if you first make a different definition of what people have said and then ask them to elaborate on what they have not said, it will be difficult to get a full answer. Because what I've said is different from that, sir. Holger K. Nielsen thinks I've said. What I have said is that Denmark's Statistics has so far done a good job. I think it is a relevant discussion to ensure that the future debate on immigration, integration and parallel societies will not be the subject of a numerical war, but will be based on a jointly informed basis on which we can have political debates together and, moreover, take the necessary political decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121231	No one else has asked for brief comments to the Minister, so we go to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121253	We are discussing a motion for a resolution on the future inventory of the number of immigrants and descendants and children of their descendants. It is a little unconventional that we are discussing statistical categories in the Parliamentary Chamber. We tend to leave this kind of thing safe and sound to the academic world. However, I do understand the desire, as a Parliament, for us to take this discussion and the need to send a signal that we need to be able to monitor the development of the children of the descendants of immigrants. How do they cope with compulsory language screening in kindergarten? How many people get off school? How many notifications and placements are there? What grades do they get in school? How many people get an education? How many are convicted of crime? In short, how are you? This information is absolutely crucial if we want to break negative social and cultural patterns. Without that information, we grope blindly. That is why we need statistics on the grandchildren of immigrants. I understand that some fellow citizens are asking why all these categories are needed, and I myself am being met with the question: when do you politicians really think we are Danish enough? How many generations will it take? I would like to stress here that for the Social Democratic Party it is not a question of who is Danish. Fortunately, the vast majority of those who are here in the third generation have long since become Danish. This is about us having to take an interest in the third generation if we are to avoid talking about the fourth generation. For us, it is about having a more qualified debate and being able to intervene more decisively. We cannot be satisfied, for example. still see such marked differences in the grades of primary school graduation between the grandchildren of the 1960s guest workers and their classmates. It must, of course, be done better by all of us. That task is only gonna be more important. In 1980, when I was born, 25 were of the third generation, 25 children of descendants. Now there's 20,000. And in Ishøj, where I am appointed to the Folketing, it is now every five children who are the third generation. So what the Minister mentions will be the situation in 2050, that is sometime in the future, has arrived at Ishøj. We therefore support the intentions of this proposal and hope, like the Minister, that we can agree on a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121518	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121521	It's kind of the same as before. In other words, when a political working group is to be set up to look at how Danmarks Statistik works, it must be based on the fact that one does not believe that the information or analyses that have come so far have been good enough, otherwise there was no need to create a working group, or one has some idea that Denmark's Statistics itself cannot figure out how to do relevant statistical analysis. What hasn't been okay? What is the reason why the Social Democratic Party now wants us politically to set out guidelines on what Denmark's Statistics should be dealing with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121604	There was a recent discussion of a report published by the Minister for Education and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and it ran some of the tracks in public, among other things. because I think the minister had come to publish a report a little too early. In the past, we have seen figures from both VIVE, I believe, and at least from the ROCKWOOL Foundation, where the same categories are not used. I think it would be beneficial for the political debate if we had some of the same categories. There I think what is being proposed by the Minister is sensible, so if we in the committee could express our wishes and ask a working group to look at drawing up some categories which we can all lean on in the political discussion, then the discussions are about the substance and not about the methodology of how it has been prepared.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121712	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121714	Yeah, but let me ask you again. This has to be based on some assumption that Danmarks Statistik does not provide sufficient relevant information. Is it because VIVE and the others are better at it, or what is the reason why, compared to Danmarks Statistik, you are now about to create a political governance? Surely there must be some deeper reason why it must be so extremely important for the Social Democratic Party that we are going to manage Denmark's Statistics politically?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121750	What is important for social democracy, which is perhaps particularly important to me, is that when we see such a sharp increase in the number of children of descendants, we have a qualified debate on how to deal with it. I can only note now that there are several different categories and that there is more discussion about the categories and methods than there is about the political content. Last night I had a debate at the production school in Ishøj, where we among other things. discussed this. I think this is inappropriate for such a debate as I do, for example. last night, there was uncertainty about definitions and that we cannot follow these categories back in time, because that is what is necessary to make policy and see if it even works.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121839	No one else has asked for brief comments. Reference is made to section 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. Fourthly, the Minister has asked to speak on a point of order, and questions can also be asked here and comments made. I call the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121902	Thank you very much. It is only because there was a discussion between Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, where I am a little concerned that there is a misunderstanding that will remain in the rest of the debate. What we are thinking is the setting up of a working group of experts in the field of statistics and research and, of course, representatives of relevant ministries. The working group will examine whether the existing statements of persons with an immigrant background present an adequate picture. Danmarks Statistik is independent, in relation to whether they will include what the working group arrives at just so it is beyond doubt. And that's how it's thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301121949	Does this give rise to brief comments? That is not the case, and we thank the Minister. In this way we will continue in the rapporteur's line, where the next rapporteur is Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122013	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising a relevant debate. In the Left, we fully agree that the number and composition of immigrants and descendants mean something to our cohesion. I remember clearly when I read Denmark's Statistics projections of population development in Denmark up to 2050. It left me with a deep understanding that we are fundamentally changing Denmark if we do nothing about the situation. We also agree that it is essential that the knowledge we discuss and take decisions on is fair. We therefore support the part of the proposal which envisages setting up a working group to discuss how we can strengthen the data available to us in the field of immigration and integration. However, it is crucial for the Left that the proposal does not undermine the independent role of Statistics Denmark in academic statistical matters. The working group must therefore provide technical input, but in the end it is up to Denmark's Statistics to assess whether definitions need to be changed. I look forward to discussing the proposal further in the further cooperation of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122119	This does not seem to give rise to any brief comments, so we thank Mr Beazley. Mads Fuglede, and we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Christian Juhl, rapporteur? No, there's no one from the Enhedslisten, so we're going to sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122151	Thank you for that, President. DF wants the government to set up a working group to explain how Danmarks Statistik is to calculate the number of people with an immigrant background in the future. Statistics are incredibly important. It qualifies the basis for decision that we politicians have. Historically, there has been an anxiety about measuring the consequences of immigration, for example. the economic consequences. Fortunately, we have come across this in Denmark. We are now doing so, and that makes sense. We measure the consequences of everything, what different initiatives in the field of disability cost, infrastructure, etc. etc. It is quite natural that we measure the consequences, and we are doing so now when it comes to immigration, and that is, of course, entirely legitimate because politics is about priorities. That is why it is also important that we measure in a proper way that we do not end up in a debate about measurement methods, and this has been the case recently, as other rapporteurs have said. We are very pleased that the government will set up a working group to look at this. We think it is relevant, but of course it is also important that Denmark's Statistics is independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122329	This does not seem to give rise to any brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122343	Thank you. In the alternative, we do not support this resolution, and we do not, for the reason that there is no doubt as to what the purpose of the resolution is. I also think that, when you read the comments on the motion for a resolution, there are some assumptions and a way of referring to immigrants and descendants, which I certainly do not agree with. Now we have mentioned here that Danmarks Statistik is independent and must be independent.I don't think anyone disagrees with that here in the Parliamentary Chamber; it's quite a premise for their work.But when we politically go in and decide or point out that we have to work to settle descendants and immigrants in some other ways and for a longer time back, we help to draw a picture of how our society is divided up in such a purely segmental and group way. Then we help to point out that we believe that what characterises Danish society is the segmentation that exists. You could point to a lot of other things that could be interesting to measure our population against each other on the basis of, for example. where you live. You can do that now. However, there are some political signals in this that I do not like, and I think that we should also ask ourselves how long in the future we should measure our people on blood bonds. When will you get out of the line where you are taken into the group of descendants of immigrants? Well, I'd be one of them if we expanded this term, I can say, and I think we're a lot of people who would. So maybe it gets a little blurry too. So to a working group under Danmarks Statistik or a working group that was supposed to provide input, I would say: yes, if it were the case that that working group could look at all sorts of different things that we can divide our population into. It could then be quite qualified that we could look at: Is something more needed now because society is evolving? But to do so specifically in relation to immigrants and descendants, I think it is quite simply wrong, and it only segmentes that we here from the Folketing say time and again to our new Danes that we do not think they are part of us. In relation to the report by Mr. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned, i.e. The descendants' report, for example, was one of the methodological criticisms that, when they took the group of immigrants and descendants, they left out those who were half-breeds, one can say, that is, where the parents were partly an immigrant and partly one who was ethnically Danish. They weren't included in the group, and that was interesting, and the explanation was that it got too blurry. I just feel a bit like if there's something that integration is about, it's just when you get involved. So when, in a report such as the descendant report, one fails to include the group that is mixed in relation to saying something about the level of education among descendants in Denmark, then one does not want to see the picture that is really out there, namely that it is mixed together over the generations. So it's just an input to really watch out for us not politically going out and pointing out how to divide our people up. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122701	There is a request for a brief comment, first to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122705	Thank you. I simply do not agree that there is some political signal in it. It is a little suspicious, I think, from the rapporteur's point of view, and it is said that there should be something in it about the need to indulge some. I do not agree with that. A few years ago I was with the Business Committee in the United States, and we met with Danes. One of the things they highlighted in our discussion with them was a report, a study that was made about how descendants of Danes had fared in the United States, and that is where we talk right back to the mid-18th century, and they had done extremely well in the United States. I'm not in the concrete definition of how they were divided... it's not that... but the point here was that studies were still being done on it, and they were so proud of how well they had done. They had done better than the average. The point here is that we should like to come to a situation one day in the future, where we can see that the differences that exist today in relation to crime, education and so on are blurred and, if we are going to get there, we need to know what is actually the case, and then we should be able to say one day that we have succeeded. But that means we need to measure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122823	I don't disagree with that at all. I myself am a sociologist and have been working on statistical methods for many years as a researcher, so that is not because I disagree with it. In fact, I very much agree that it is good that we have special register research and that we have a fairly nuanced way of doing register research, and that requires some categories that we can go in and choose from. So I don't disagree with that. I just disagree with the intention behind this motion for a resolution, namely, the increasing stigmatisation of a certain group in our society, which we would rather not have here. Well, that's how I read it. Then you can say that where it becomes interesting is the way you choose to use the statistics. That is not so much the statistics themselves and the figures themselves, but that is the way you choose to use the figures, the numbers you hold up against each other and the reservations you take. Another criticism of the descendants' report was that they did not make any reservations, for example. the socio-economic status of parents, etc., as is always the case in a sociological method, because it means something to the result. So we should not forget that criticism. But I do not disagree that it is good to have the figures available. I just don't see the need for this precise resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122927	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301122929	Well, the need comes from the fact that we have now repeatedly had a discussion in this area, which has been about method and not content, and it is certainly not something that brings us closer to resolving some of the quite obvious problems, particularly with regard to immigration from the Middle East, which we all recognize exists. So I simply do not share the view that this should be the expression of some kind of suspicion. I see it as an indication that we want to make sure that we have an available knowledge which can both enable us to deal with the problems, and hopefully one day we can say that we have actually solved some of these problems. May I just say in the end that the Danes referred to in the study that had been made about them in the United States felt like the Americans. They were proud of their Scandinavian heritage, if I may say so, but at least they felt like Americans. So there is no contradiction here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123035	I think I will just repeat what I said in my rapporteur's speech. I would like us to look at how it is most appropriate for us to use statistics in our society and what categories we should use, but then it should be a broad debate that contains all kinds of different cuts in the way we can group our societies. This is specifically about descendants and immigrants, and I simply do not agree that there is a need for this. I would just like to read out what the motion for a resolution says: "Many people face the problems of everyday life. That is, for example, the case. halal-slaughtered products in day care institutions, scarves, ramadan, mosques, bathrooms, etc., which cause conflicts between children, parents and colleagues at work. That is an assertion that I do not agree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123111	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123113	After all, for over 100 years here in society we have been interested in offsetting social differences in Denmark, and there it has been a crucial tool to have figures so that we know what we are talking about. Now the last few decades have also arisen, one might say, a cultural inequality, and there too I think it would be beneficial for political work and simply to know how we intervene, that there are also proper statistics in relation to origin. I would like to admit that I am one of those who, for a few years, have been asking a few questions about this and asking for figures from the Ministry, because the place where I live and where I am elected is one of the eight municipalities with the highest number in the third generation, and that is all municipalities in the West. Those are especially Turks. During Christmas 2017, I got a figure that showed that compared to the average grade in school, from immigrants to descendants, it went quite well. So, there was a significant boost, but from descendants to children of descendants it stands largely still. Then I think it's problematic. For example: It is almost silent in Danish written and Danish oral terms. If we're gonna solve this, wouldn't it be helpful to get some statistics?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123232	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123233	Now I am not sure that I got the question, but perhaps I would just like to ask one question, namely whether it is with regard to the figures which Mr. Mattias Tesfaye refers to the fact that it stands still from descendants to children of descendants, is the descendant report that is referred to. Because if it is, it is methodically untenable because it does not compare across generations. But this says very well how insanely nuanced it is and how difficult and complex it is to make a valid method, and I just think that as politicians we should not stand up and be the judges of what categories we use. We need professionals out there who understand the composition of our society. However, we must be aware of when we, as politicians, order research reports and methodological reports what criteria we are ordering. Because it has an impact on the interpretation of what we are asking for. I just want us to be nuanced and to include all the different background data and variables that also have an impact on the interpretation. It has been my criticism of the descendants' report that they have not done so. So you simply cannot trust the conclusion that comes in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123333	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123335	I don't know if you can't trust it. It depends, of course, on whether one understands what the data are on the basis of which they are presented. I can, for example. Understand from the alternative that it is a problem that immigrants who have married Danes have been cleaned out of the figures. Now I am here with another reply from the summer of 2018, which shows that in Danish writing the average character for the children of two immigrants is 5.6, but that if one parent has Danish origin, it is 6.4. It is actually the same as the national average. So it shows that if immigrants marry into Danish society, integration on this point, written Danish, has actually succeeded. Well, it's interesting that we have immigrant couples cleaned from those who marry into the Danish...
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123423	Thank you. Then we need an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123426	Yes, if you want to divide the groups up in the way that they say that if you come here, you must marry a Dane. There's no doubt that we really have to be careful how we use these numbers. Because if you look at the government's own integration barometer, which you can look up on the government's website and find, you will see that it only goes one way for descendants and immigrants in relation to the level of education, and that is forward. It will also be seen that among the young people taking a youth education there are more girls of descendants who do so than there are Danish girls who do, and also in relation to the long higher education, the girls have overtaken the Danish girls, and the boys are on the level. So I just feel kind of like we really, really need to pay attention to how we're talking about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123509	Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123512	Thank you. Whether you have the attitude and approach to foreign policy that the Danish People's Party has, or you have the approach that the Alternative has, it is well relevant that an area should be clarified as thoroughly as possible and that as much information as possible should be disclosed. I know that the alternative and other parties are in favour of this in other areas, but right here we are not in favour of it. Why are we actually opposed to this resolution? Why is it that we are opposed to setting up a working group to arrive at how to find some other definitions so that we can be more enlightened when we have the political debate? What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123550	There are two things in it. One is, in fact, the comments in the motion for a resolution, which is why we are voting against it. It is simply that we do not share the assumptions made in the comments. Then it is a little bit difficult to vote for a resolution when you think that the comments are actually assumptions that are not correct. The second point is that I have also said in my rapporteur's speech that we are not in fact opposed to a working group, but then it just needs to be broader in terms of looking at what categories we have in Denmark. Should it be adjusted in the way Denmark's Statistics divide Danes? It may well be, but then it just has to be a professional assessment that goes wider than looking only at immigrants and descendants. Then we shall certainly have to include some more things in that category.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123630	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123631	After all, this is about how immigration affects Danish society. So this is about people with immigrant backgrounds and people who are descendants, third generation etc. That's what this is all about. That is also why the Danish People's Party has made this proposal. That is why the alternative must end itself, regardless of the political approach one has to take to foreign policy, i.e. whether one wants to see more or less people come to know whether one wants the area as well as possible. If you have the point of view of what I also hear a little that Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier has, then you should sort of back this up. That's what you should do. It is about the political approach that all of us can take political decisions on as good and enlightened a basis as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123711	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123712	Yes, and my clear answer to that is that, in terms of content, we do not see the need to extend the categories. I mean, it's also about looking at what's going on in terms of how you figure it out today and the categories that are today. We do not see the need to expand them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123728	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123741	This is a parliament where politics is discussed. It is therefore quite unusual for us to have a discussion on statistical categories and methods and how to deal with them. I'll tell you what. I haven't seen that before. And how we're gonna vote on it is a little unclear to me. But to set up working groups, yes, we cannot object to that, but why should it be dealt with in a motion for a resolution in the Folketing that working groups should be set up? That can only be because there has to be some political purpose to it. If the Minister thinks there is a problem at the moment, then he is setting up a working party no problem, no problem for us to do so. It always happens in different ministries that working groups are set up. After all, it is useful for officials to sit down together and discuss a professionalism and discuss with professional arguments how to deal with it and that, including how to deal with statistical concepts and how to deal with different economic categories, and what do I know? It's very technical, that, and it's very specific professional. I find it quite pointless that we should take up such a motion for a resolution in the Folketing here today. I would just like to say that I welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they cannot vote for this either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123915	Thank you to Holger K. Nielsen. There are no brief comments, and then the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301123923	Access to accurate statistics is a very important tool in the policy toolbox. This applies to labour market policy, financial policy and social policy, but also, of course, to the foreign and integration debate. If we're going to have an enlightened debate, we need facts on the table. For the time being, Denmark's Statistics brings together immigrants and descendants of immigrants. In other countries, it is believed that it is problematic just to settle after ancestry. We do not think so. That is why it is productive and not harmful to the factual debate that it is conducted on the basis of reliable statistics. I have nothing to postpone on the work of Danmarks Statistik, which should, moreover, be independent in professional matters. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party seeks to set up a working group whose professional input can create value for Denmark's Statistics. We must always be sure of the best access to facts in the political debate, regardless of whether the facts are consistent with one's political convictions. This is an issue that has only become more important in recent years with the spread of fake news on social media. Denmark's Statistics will continue to be a reliable source of information, and therefore nothing will happen by setting up a working group to look at this area, which is so heatedly discussed in the debate. That is why we welcome the proposal in the Conservative People's Party and we look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124100	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124106	Well, thank you for the debate. There is a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution. We welcome the government's support for this. The Minister has formulated himself constructively in relation to our proposals, and the Social Democrats are doing the same. That means that it now has something to do with it and that a working group can be set up. I personally take the view that the reality in which we live must be described as precisely as possible and that the available figures and statistics, as they exist, are not at all negative, but are a qualification of the debate. Our position on immigration has, of course, been clear, and it is outlined in the motion for a resolution, in other words this massive immigration which has been over the last 50 years, which has dramatically changed Denmark. But I would say that even if we took a different view from what we have, it can never be a problem that an exact description of foreigners, descendants and so on is being made.; that we can conduct a political discussion on as factual and enlightened a basis as possible must be the very purpose of an enlightened democracy and that the information we need is actually available; otherwise we will have a situation where we have some dark figures; that is, the Danes can register that something is happening in their society and can register a change without us really being able to take a factual position on it because it is all based on opinions or assumptions. This will mean that we can continue to discuss the consequences of immigration and, as I said, we believe that the immigration that has taken place is unhappy. It has been very sad for Denmark. But when we hold that discussion, let us at least do it on an enlightened basis. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124334	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124350	The debate is open. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124412	Thank you for that, President. Today is a historic day, unfortunately, I would like to add. It is because this is the first time that the consequence of the decision taken by a majority in Britain is really becoming concrete for people of flesh and blood, resident British citizens, and perhaps most of all the consequence that the British Government and the British Parliament have not yet become clear about what they really want to do with the European Union in the future. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has put forward a bill which we have before us today to mitigate the most serious consequences that brexit will have for British citizens living in Denmark. Britain and Denmark have for many decades had a close relationship commercially as politically and also culturally. The close relationship has only been strengthened by membership of the European Union, which over the years has contributed to increasing opportunities for cooperation and cultural exchanges between our countries. It is also the primary reason for • or one of the many reasons why at least 800 British citizens live, live and work with their families here in Denmark. In spite of this, the United Kingdom has unfortunately chosen to leave the European Union. As responsible politicians, it is of course our responsibility to keep our hands under the many both Danish and also applicable to the present bill • British citizens who have benefited from the close ties between our countries. Britain's departure from the European Union must not prevent skilled young people from completing their education or stopping resident Britons from contributing to the labour market. That is why I am also pleased that the draft law continues virtually all the rights that the citizens concerned enjoy under EU law today, if nothing else, so until the British themselves have found out how they will leave the European Union and what connection they want in the future. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration himself emphasizes in the submission, the proposed bill is only a temporary arrangement. A final solution can only be achieved once we have had a complete clarification as to whether Britain wants to leave the Union or not. It is reported in the news that our party colleagues in the British Labour Party are now supporting a completely new referendum on Britain's membership of the European Union. The announcement gave me a renewed hope that the British will eventually stay. At our accession to the European Union, Britain and Denmark became part of a European community of fates. Together with the rest of Europe, we decided to put the horrors of the past behind us, instead of working for lasting peace, cooperation, trade and prosperity. At the same time, we should not take stability and wealth in Europe for granted, and we need Britain if we want to look forward to a bright future for our little corner of the world. That is why I also hope that Britain's intention to leave the European Union, like the scheme presented in this bill, will remain temporary. With those words, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124712	Thank you to Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124724	Thank you for the floor. It's like sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentioned a special bill, which is intended to prevent, if one can put it that way, some of the consequences that it will have for Britons here in Denmark and for Danes in Britain if it ends up with Britain leaving the EU without an agreement. So today, when we have this bill, it is because Britain has decided to leave the European Union, a decision that it is very easy to understand. In the Danish People's Party we want to ensure a sensible and proper transition for the Britons who are now in Denmark and for the Danes who are in Britain. We must, of course, treat the British who live in Denmark properly. We have to do that. That is the clear position of the Danish People's Party. It is also important to emphasise that this is a temporary arrangement. In the view of the Danish People's Party, the British are to be transferred to the general rules in the field of foreigners in relation to social benefits etc., so this is a temporary arrangement for the British who are in Denmark. Of course, a sunset clause could also be considered in the draft law. There isn't yet, but there might be some reason for that. With these comments, the Danish People's Party welcomes the draft law, so, subject to what may appear in the committee's proceedings, we are inclined to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124902	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301124918	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we want to maintain close relations with Britain after they have left the European Union, but this must of course be done in a way that balances rights and obligations. That is why the government is also satisfied with the agreement reached between the EU 27 and the British Government back in November. It was a good and balanced agreement which ensures a proper British withdrawal from the European Union, not least for the many citizens concerned. For the same reason, of course, we are also very sorry that the British Parliament has rejected the agreement that Britain's Prime Minister himself helped to conclude. We hope that a solution will be found as soon as possible and await the British Parliament's bid to move forward. Meanwhile, the Danish side will have to prepare for the scenario in which Britain will leave the EU without an agreement on 29 March. In this context, it is important for the government that the more than 18,000 British citizens who have chosen to settle in Denmark and organise their lives on the basis of their EU rights are properly treated. With this bill, therefore, the government wants to continue virtually all the rights that the inhabited British today enjoy as EU citizens. It is the intention that the law should be applied on a temporary basis while we wait for Britain's relationship with the European Union to finally be clarified. There is no doubt that Britain's decision to leave the European Union has shown what will happen if you forget to listen to citizens' concerns and frustrations. We must learn a lesson from this. At the same time, however, Brexit has also demonstrated that through our EU membership we have had a number of opportunities and rights that we may have taken for granted. Having said that, of course, we fully respect the British decision to leave the European Union, but until a solution is found, it is our duty to look after the British citizens who have chosen to settle in Denmark and contribute to Danish society. Against this background, the Left fully supports the bill. And then I have to do something that I rarely do in this area: welcome from the Radical Left and say that they support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125125	It is a new constellation in Danish politics. Thank you. We move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125131	Thank you. It is good that the government has put forward this proposal so that the situation is taken into account that Britain will leave the EU on 29 March without an agreement if they so do. If we do not adopt such a law, it will mean that thousands of Britons, Danes and other EU citizens will lose rights to stay in Denmark overnight, to a large number of social benefits and to offers under the Services Act, the possibility of marrying in Denmark and the rights to certain health services and services in the education system. This is due to the fact that the persons concerned, i.e. British citizens of Denmark and Danish citizens of Great Britain as well as EU citizens, and their family members who have earned rights in Denmark and Great Britain no longer have the status of EU citizens, but suddenly have the status of third-country nationals. That is why we welcome the fact that the government has put forward this bill, which means that, for a transitional period, those concerned largely retain the rights they have acquired at the time of brexit's entry into force. It is fair to the many people who would otherwise be put in a quite terrible situation. They should not pay for Britain and the European Union not being able to reach an agreement on how Britain gets out of the European Union in a sensible way. There are a few points on which we do not entirely agree. It is suggested that the citizens concerned can only retain the right to family allowances, advance payments of child allowances and children's cheques if the child is in Denmark. The reason for this is that they are no longer covered by EU Regulation No. 883 on the coordination of social security benefits in the Member States. Yes, it is true, but the loss of these rights is as significant for the family concerned as it would be to lose the right to loss of earnings under section 42 of the Service Act, offers under the Daily Offers Act and care allowance. These rights have just been chosen by the government for a period of time on the grounds that it would be intrusive to remove them and that the families concerned have had some legitimate expectations to receive them during their stay in this country. We believe that something similar should be done when it comes to the possibility of exporting family allowances, advance payment of child allowances and child cheques. Some will probably wonder why the Enhedslisten takes up this matter; as you know, we believe that you should only be able to obtain family allowances, advance payments of child support and child checks if the children are staying in this country, and that is actually what the law says. But we do so on exactly the same grounds as the one used by the government to preserve the right to lost earnings, offers under the Daily Offers Act and care allowances. It is intrusive to the families to change it at such short notice, and they have had some legitimate expectations to benefit from the rights. Moreover, it is cost-neutral, so it cannot be the money that is the problem. We will try to rectify this in committee. We would also like to ask some questions about the possibility for British citizens to receive maternity benefit in certain situations. We do not think that is quite clear. All in all, however, the government must be commended for bringing forward the bill. We will now be questioning whether it can be called due diligence that it only comes now, 1 minute to 12. We would remind you in silence that on this day, two years ago, the Enhedslisten tabled a motion for a resolution, B 73, which called on the government to open negotiations with Great Britain for a reciprocal transitional regime so that the nationals of the two countries could remain in the other country on terms similar to those currently in force. The government rejected the fact that it had been left to the EU to conduct the negotiations and that it would undermine the EU's negotiating position if the Member States negotiated bilaterally with Britain. We now see the result: panic before closing time and a great deal of concern and uncertainty for many people. It could have been avoided, dear government. And then we note that the government has nevertheless chosen to introduce more far-reaching protection for the citizens concerned than the European Commission is proposing. We are pleased about this, but it only shows that we cannot leave this matter to the European Union. That is why we will also repeat our call if it turns out that it will be a tough brexit. Then we will have to use the transitional period to start negotiations with the British Government on what will happen when the transitional period expires. However, the disagreement about what should have been done should not, of course, separate us from this situation, where it is about creating the security of thousands of Danish and British citizens about their situation after 29 March this year. We vote for the bill; the alternative is frightening.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125635	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125642	Thank you. This bill is about something expressing due diligence. On 29 March, we are moving closer and closer, and right now there is little evidence that the British and the European Union can agree on a brexite agreement. In this situation, of course, we cannot tear away the carpet under the 17 000 or so British citizens who live in Denmark, and that is why we wholeheartedly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125717	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125719	I'd like to elaborate on how the Liberal Alliance can call this due diligence. It is made in haste, it is made with very, very short notice without much discussion. We proposed two years ago that it would be very good to have an agreement of this kind, and it was simply rejected blankly, and they were told that it should be done by the European Union. The European Union has not been able to do that. Would it not have been reasonable in retrospect that we had done so in good time, so there had been a chance to discuss it with all the people who have been uncertain about their situation for two years now, both the Danes who are in Britain and the Britons who are in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125759	Sometimes it's incredibly easy to be Enhedslisten because you can make the world so black and white. But the world isn't. The complexity is huge in this area. There were plenty of uncertainties two years ago. It was not certain how it would end up that we would be in the situation we are in now. So there were incredibly many relationships to be taken into account. So, given that, this is definitely a matter of due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125833	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125835	Yes, and it would also have been easy to be the Liberal Alliance if you had listened to the Enhedslisten exactly 2 years ago. We made the suggestion that we should initiate a process so that we could give these people security. At that time, it was certain that, in March 2019, Britain would leave the European Union if nothing else happened. And therefore there was a need to make an agreement and there was a need to describe how it could be. You could have done that, but you wouldn't even call it that you stupidly didn't want it and you just left it to the European Union. The European Union has not fulfilled that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125916	There's no such thing as stupidity here. It is a matter of two years ago that the situation was uncertain. Two years ago, it was very, very difficult to predict that you would be in the situation you are in now. So there have been incredibly many complex relationships that have played in and that still play a part. And that is why this is an expression of the fact that we take responsibility for some citizens that we do not want to be put in an unfair situation because of brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301125954	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130003	Thank you for that, President. I'll be very brief. We support the proposal from the Alternative. We are, of course, very pleased that the vast majority of the rights that British citizens have in relation to their rights in Denmark and the possibility of being in Denmark are being maintained. We therefore agree with the criticisms that have been made about Danish citizens being able to take their daily allowances to England and use them for three months, and that that right expires with brexit on 29 March, but that is such a small detail, it can be said that it does not of course prevent us from supporting the entire bill. So we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130045	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130103	This bill is, after all, a consequence of the chaos that can be seen in Britain at the moment, which breaks with everything else that could have been imagined of sensible political activity. That is why it is a real possibility for us to have what we call a hard brexit on 29 March, and therefore this bill. It can be said that we are dealing with the legislative proposal in the light of the fact that we support it, but that we hope it will never be put into effect. It's not uninteresting that you do it, but that's the way it is. That is the kind of proposal we should have in our hands. If we get a hard line, we can do this and that in order to protect the rights of citizens. This is, of course, a very sensible and definite expression of due diligence in our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130203	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130212	First of all, many thanks to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill here today. The aim of the draft law, which we are considering, is to continue the existing rights on a temporary basis under a wide range of existing rules relating, inter alia, to: the right of residence, work and benefits for the people affected by Britain's withdrawal from the EU without an agreement. I do not want to go through the draft law here from the platform, but I would like to emphasise in general terms that the draft law proposes a system whereby the majority of the rights enjoyed by the persons concerned under EU law today are temporarily maintained. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to the right of residence, the right to work and training and the right to receive a number of benefits, including, inter alia: old-age, early retirement and old-age pensions. The aim is thus to protect the British who exercise their freedom of movement here in Denmark at the time of Britain's withdrawal and other persons who have acquired rights as a result of Britain's membership of the European Union. This avoids tearing away the carpet under the many citizens and families who, on the basis of Britain's membership of the European Union, have arranged their lives and everyday lives in accordance with their rights under EU law. As the Prime Minister has also put it in the past, it is only right and proper that it is not the citizens who should pay the price for Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. However, I would like to reiterate that the intention is that the law will apply temporarily pending the final settlement of Britain's relationship with the European Union. Thus, the draft law must, in the first place, avert the serious consequences that it will have for citizens both in Denmark and in Britain if it ends up with Britain leaving the EU without an agreement. The solution that will eventually have to replace the temporary arrangement will, of course, depend on several factors, including whether a solution can be found at EU level with the British and how the United Kingdom will deal with the situation. There is nothing left to say but thank you for the receipt of the bill here. I look forward very much to further consideration and, of course, make myself available in relation to any questions that may be raised, as do the other colleagues of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130513	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130520	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Minister whether she wants to take part in the export of family allowances, advance payments of child allowances and children's cheques, as this can have a fairly severe effect on people. Not least when we talk about temporary legislation, it will have as great consequences as many of the other things, and that is why it is perhaps a good idea to secure British and Danish citizens in this situation when you want to make a temporary law. I would like to call on the Minister to have a talk about it and then to secure these things when we are in this situation just before closing time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130600	Well, the call has been heard. I would say that we have drafted the bill which we now think it covers best, and it can be said that what lies in this bill is in fact that we are continuing the world with boards until a definitive solution is found to it. I think that the way we do it is the most reassuring way for the British who may be staying here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130630	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130634	Well, I understand that, and I don't want to play hindsight anymore. We are extending the world with boards, as the Minister says, but these three areas that Enhedslisten has pointed out are not something that costs extra. It is only a question of securing some of our own citizens and some of the British citizens who live in Denmark, and we could probably stretch it to that when we have secured them in other areas. Because there are children's families and others who just get into trouble with these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130707	In other words, Enhedslisten is always welcome to table an amendment, and we are of course also in the ministry helping with that kind of thing. Whether it will enjoy support is another matter. However, it is clear that we are of course making ourselves available with technical assistance in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130723	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130747	The debate is open. Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130813	NATO is pursuing an open door policy so that the countries that meet the requirements can become members. This is good because we have an interest in a strong NATO which can be a stabilising factor in a restless world. North Macedonia is a small country with a small defence, but it is certainly not an insignificant country. The importance of the location in the 1990s of the marched Balkans and an area down towards Turkey and the Middle East is interesting, because if you look at a map, it is hard not to get the idea that with accession to NATO the belt on the Middle East will be strengthened, which also includes Greece and Bulgaria here and, of course, is particularly interesting at a time when Turkey is increasingly problematic both democratically and religiously and militarily. With the case that we dealt with some time ago, namely the accession of Montenegro and now Northern Macedonia to NATO, it must also be said that NATO has thereby marked the Balkans as its sphere of interest. Social democracy supports North Macedonia's accession to NATO. And then, on behalf of the alternative, I would say that they also support the accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO. I think there is reason to stress that it is only in this one case that the alternative has left it to us to control their policy, although it would be useful in many ways if they did so to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130949	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301130955	Thank you. Denmark is a full member of NATO and therefore fundamentally supports NATO's strategic decisions. And NATO has decided to invite Macedonia to join in defence cooperation, and following some name change procedures, the Republic of North Macedonia has now decided to say yes. The final accession must be ratified by the individual Member States, and that is what we are doing in the Folketing today. I will not use more words than the most necessary, and I will just note that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131028	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131037	Thank you for that, President. I can also say from the Left that we are right, very pleased that the whole of the name dispute over Macedonia has found its peaceful and good solution, so that it is now called Northern Macedonia, and that we can do what I think many of us have wanted for some time, namely to ensure that they too become members of NATO. So we on the Left also support it warmly, one hundred percent, and at the same time it also helps to send out a signal that we are saying clearly to countries that want to help determine which countries can or cannot be members of different alliances. It must, of course, be completely free from the individual countries concerned which alliances they may wish to join. So it is a good day today, although it is not something that creates much debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131127	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, as there are no brief comments to Mr McMillan-Scott. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Are there no brief remarks to Christian Juhl? ) There are no brief remarks to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, and that is why we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131141	Thank you for that, for my colleagues are welcome to comment. The unitary list shall not vote in favour of or against the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to NATO. It is up to the individual countries themselves to assess and decide which international cooperation they wish to participate in as long as they comply with the guidelines. It is not the position of the Enhedslisten that more NATO is a guarantee of security in Europe on the contrary. We are deeply concerned about military armament in Europe and believe that Trump's demands for much larger military budgets are both dangerous and a waste of money. Our foreign policy should not be as firm on NATO as it is. I would much rather give priority to the UN and Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131229	There were no brief remarks to Mr. Christian Juhl, so we thank you. Christian Juhl Okay. Well, there was no one). Or yes, there's a brief remark at the last moment of allerallers... we'll take it with us. Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131242	It was just 'cause mr. Christian Juhl said that it is up to individual countries to decide whether they want to join NATO. However, in order for countries to become members of NATO, if they so decide, the Member States must ratify that they can be. In relation to voting yellow, I would like to say that we have to take a position here as well. You want them in? Should Denmark ratify it? This is a prerequisite for their membership. So I do not really think it makes sense just to say that it has to be decided by individual countries. The Member States will then have to ratify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131319	Yes, but that is a perfectly logical point of view to have, that is, when one does not like that organization, one must be able to say quite rightly that we will not take a position on that; others must take a position on that if they want to. We would not vote against it either. They're gonna have to find out for themselves. We have exactly the same attitude with regard to countries that will be members of the European Union and all sorts of other organisations. We don't want to get involved in that. We strongly oppose the NATO agreement and believe that it is a harmful business in terms of security in Europe. Therefore, we do not recommend anyone to go into it, they must find out for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131351	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131354	I just have to admit, I don't understand the logic. In other words, if a new country is to enter NATO, the Member States must ratify the agreement which gives the country concerned access, and then I do not understand the yellow vote. Then you have to either say yes if you think they should be in it or you have to vote no if you are against NATO and you do not think NATO should get bigger. If all the countries voted yellow, new members would not be admitted. One has to take a position; one cannot simply say, when one has a protocol on how new countries become members of NATO, that one will not relate to that. Okay, I acknowledge that there may be a logic I don't understand here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131436	Well, I cannot take responsibility for the rapporteur's intellectual capacity. I can only explain our position on the matter. By the way, we have had that practice for a very, very many years, so there is nothing new about it. After all, NATO has developed and expanded dramatically in recent years, and we have had exactly the same attitude in the other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131458	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131505	It is a little new to me that Enhedslisten has had the practice of voting yellow. I was not aware of that, i.e. I am abstaining from voting on it. Does this also mean that, for example, in the case of the United Kingdom? Ukraine or Georgia asked to join NATO and an agreement was reached on it, so would the Enhedslisten also vote yellow in relation to it? There is, of course, a political discussion about what NATO will look like in the future, and that is why I think it is a little strange that you just want to vote yellow to all those things because you are against the organisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131541	Now I do not know what practice has been in the SF, as the SF was opposed to NATO. But that has been our practice. And when Montenegro's accession was voted on in 2016, we did exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131553	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131558	Okay, but you can go back in the annals and see that. But was there a very, very big discussion about the major enlargement of NATO at the beginning of the millennium or was it in the late 1990s? It's been a few years now. After all, it was a very, very big political debate which had a very clear connection to what Europe would look like in the future and what stability would be like in Europe. And there were arguments and arguments against. I remember, then, that the Enhedslisten was very actively involved in that debate by saying that we should vote against the major NATO enlargement. But maybe it's wrong remembered?
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131643	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131646	NATO has not developed, it has to be said, in the right direction, because one could easily have a NATO which was an organisation working for peace and disarmament. That is certainly not the case at the moment, on the contrary, I think it is us. In other words, if I lived in Ukraine, I would certainly refrain from joining any pact when you lie there as you do there. That is precisely what is also one of the problems of that conflict, and we would rather support those organisations which actually have an opportunity to go in and have an intermediary and peace-making capacity rather than NATO. That is why we say that we will not interfere in what those countries are doing, and that is why we are voting yellow on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131728	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131744	Thank you for that, President. We see that NATO is one of the greatest successes of Western civilisation, an alliance that has ensured peace, stability that has protected liberal democracies from totalitarian regimes, of course, first and foremost the Soviet Union. In order to ensure peace, we must prepare ourselves for the war. On 12 February, the conflict of names with Greece, which prevented what is now North Macedonia from becoming part of NATO, was resolved. It then paved the way for North Macedonia to become part of NATO, and that is the agreement we are ratifying here. And we absolutely support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131832	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. We move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131840	Thank you, sir. President. On the radical side, too, we welcome the fact that the decades of centuries are being tempted to say 'dispute', which has been between Greece and the current North Macedonia on the name dispute, which has, of course, blocked many important agreements over time, has now been resolved, and we can therefore also move forward with the inclusion of North Macedonia in NATO, which we also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131916	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301131930	It is true, as several people have said, that this has been a very long and in many ways a difficult matter, which is due to the fact that Greece has run some nationalist interests towards its surroundings. This has been blocked in relation to Macedonia and Macedonia's accession to, among others. NATO. We are some who have opposed this Greek stubbornness, Greek approach to it and the Greek blockage that was there for many years. Fortunately, it was lifted when a new government came into being. It has succeeded in getting an agreement with the Macedonians and in getting it approved by the Greek Parliament. It has been a very big discussion in Greece, and it says a little about how inflamed the whole area is. That is something that the rest of us cannot fully understand, but that is the case. That is why it is so reasonable that Macedonia's accession to NATO has been completed. We certainly believe that we owe it to them to be able to stay. That is why we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132053	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. No more rapporteurs have asked to speak, so that is the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132104	Thank you. It is a really, really good day for us to put this together, it seems, very broad majority in favour of this motion for a resolution which gives North Macedonia the opportunity to freely make the choice that is their country's sovereign choice, namely to seek membership of NATO. It is good for North Macedonia, which is the new name for what was previously called FYROM, the former Yugoslav Republic known as Macedonia, but now North Macedonia and their ability to strengthen the sovereignty of their country. It will bring more stability to the Western Balkans and it will represent a counterweight to increased Russian influence in the region. So that's good. We have an old proverb saying that he who is silent consents. That is not the case today. If you vote yellow as Enhedslisten chooses to do, you really vote against. You take a position. And we are doing so with the consequence that if everyone followed the principle that the Enhedslisten here chooses, North Macedonia could not have the wish that is North Macedonia's wish to join NATO. That is why voting yellow is the same as voting red. That is why the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, the clear point is that it is to take a position. That is not to say that you do not take a position on it because you do not like NATO and so on. That is to take a position, namely to try to prevent North Macedonia's desire to enter NATO from coming true. I think that is a pity, of course, but thank you to the rest of the rapporteurs for supporting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132238	That then gives rise to a brief remark from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132244	Well, I just want to say that I do not disagree with the consequence of voting yellow. We would very much like it to be the case that it is the countries that are sovereign to take a position on it, and not other countries that have to interfere with it. That is why you can choose to vote red or yellow, and because there is a nuance difference in it and I have explained why we are doing it ■ our intense opposition to NATO, but also our signal that we really think that the countries themselves should if that is the case we are choosing that method now. And I think everyone here can understand that. We can be polemical towards each other, but everyone probably understands our position. But the consequence of voting yellow is, of course, that if everyone did, yes, Denmark blocked it. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132331	And that is why there is no nuance difference in it, that is, it is simply wrong. I understand the attempt to draw up a nuance, but it's not there. That's the consequence, it's the act, and what's the product of this is that you have to be judged on. If you cannot change the rule behind it, namely that it must be ratified by the Member States, then the exact same consequences have whether you choose to vote yellow or red. In other words, we cannot make what we are doing a general rule which we all think should be followed without the consequence that they cannot be allowed to have their wish fulfilled, but I do not think the rapporteur thinks so either, but the rapporteur must then make that clear. The rapporteur says that we really want North Macedonia to be allowed to join NATO, but then we cannot make it a general rule, which is why there is no nuance difference between red and yellow, because it has exactly the same consequence. If everyone did the same thing as the Enhedslisten, it would mean that North Macedonia would not be able to join NATO, and that is what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132420	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132424	Well, it could be a long academic ride, which I think we should take in the Snapsting afterwards. In the event that I had been in favour of NATO but did not think that North Macedonia should be a member, it is quite right that I should then vote red. But in this case we are marking with an explanation that is why I spent some time on it in my rapporteur's speech that we are voting yellow for the reasons I have mentioned, namely because we are fiercely opposed to NATO, but we will certainly not interfere in whether you will allow them to do so; we will not even try to vote it down into the Chamber. The fact that it has the same consequence is absolutely right, and that does not change it. I hope you've just heard my explanation. Of course, you can choose to say: we don't want to listen to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132509	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132513	Well, the explanation has been heard; it is not intellectually connected. I heard the rapporteur questioning the intellectual capacity of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, but I have to say that it is not connected here either from Kant's categorical imperative or from any other philosophical ground rules; there is no nuance difference between yellow and red. This would, in its ultimate consequence, mean that North Macedonia could not become a member of NATO. That is the consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132536	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190301132554	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 12 March 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
