ParlaMint-DK_20190425100038	The meeting is open. For the Danish Parliament's agenda on Thursday 25 April 2019 there is the following review: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill no. L 232 (Proposal for a law on citizenship). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has presented a report on the Minister for Fisheries and Equal Opportunities's handling of the case of exploratory fishing in Storebælt. 11). The report will be presented in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then I would ask colleagues to be sharp and attentive, as we have to go through a very, very large pile of votes in the next few minutes, perhaps hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100136	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 89 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 89 adopted. After that, the draft adopted by the Committee of the Regions No 1 was adopted. V 88 by Søren Søndergaard (EL), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100315	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100331	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100405	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100435	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-4 by the Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby) as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100444	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100453	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 80 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100526	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100549	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100619	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100641	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100710	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100734	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100803	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100821	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100857	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100917	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425100948	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101016	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101046	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101106	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101138	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101204	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has thus been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101237	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101258	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101327	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101346	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 81 (S, DF, V, LA, Martin Lidegaard (RV) and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 4 (RV). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101441	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101517	No amendments have been tabled here either. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101535	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101609	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101632	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101706	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101729	The final vote will be taken and the vote can now be taken. Hey, are there any technical problems with the Left? Then they'll have a moment to straighten in. We shall conclude the vote now. For 10 votes (ALT and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 9 (EL). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101810	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is no such thing, and since that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101832	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 64 (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 27 (S). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101912	No amendments have been tabled. I can tell you, sir. Rune Lund wishes to speak, but we must have the Minister of Justice first, for he has asked to speak and is first in line; he has a little bit more seniority. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425101948	Thank you. After all, it is no more than four months since we last voted on a proposal like this in this Chamber. As I said at the time, I fully acknowledge the good intentions of the proposers of the proposal, because it goes without saying that all sexual acts must be voluntary. I do not have the imagination to imagine that we disagree on that in this Chamber. When I choose to speak today, this is because the proposal we are debating has followed the special committee procedure for dealing with motions for resolutions, which means that we have not had the opportunity to discuss it in this Chamber. I think that is a pity, because a great deal has happened over the last four months. That is why it is also important for me to stress that when the government votes against the resolution today, it does not mean that the proposal goes into oblivion. However, the motion for a resolution proposes that a bill on a consent-based rape clause should be tabled in this Assembly. That is simply not realistic. Nor is it realistic when the proposers do not make a concrete proposal as to what a new rape clause should look like. Everyone in this Chamber knows very well that there are a number of important legal considerations which must be taken into account in the formulation of a new rape clause, and that therefore requires proper preparatory work, a preparatory work which could simply not be achieved in this session, if all the parties in the Folketing so wished. The government, on the other hand, has given full impetus to the work. I have recently appointed a new President and a number of new members of the Criminal Code Council, and I have asked the Council, led by the Supreme Court, Thomas Rørdam as the first to carry out a thorough review of the penal code's rape clause and to make concrete proposals on how it can be clarified that sexual acts should be voluntary. For such an important provision must, of course, be made thoroughly and properly. However, the Criminal Code Council will have to complete its work in sufficient time for proposals to be made to amend the rape clause as early as the next session. So it is not in any way about dragging the work into a long process. It is a question of ensuring that a new rape clause is easily understood and applicable to citizens and to authorities at the same time. We owe it to the victims. And if there is any body capable of fulfilling this task, then it is the Criminal Code Council which has the absolute highest legal professionalism that can be patterned in this field of criminal law. I think it really is a bit too bad that it might appear that we in this House disagree on this point, because I think we actually agree. We agree that this has to be done thoroughly. We agree that sex should be based on volunteering, that goes without saying. And I hope, when the Criminal Law Council has had the opportunity to look at it and makes their proposals, that we can then, as a single Parliament, stand together on a new provision, but that is not just something you pull in a vending machine. This requires very thorough work by the highest legal experts. And I hope, despite the formal disagreement we have here, that at a later stage we will be united in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102325	Thank you very much to the Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Bramsen to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102335	I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that there is in fact no parliamentary assembly in the proposal we are debating now. There are parliamentary years, which run somewhat further than the assembly. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102349	So, in the motion for a resolution that I have before me, B 146, it says: "The Danish Parliament is instructing the government in this Assembly to table a bill amending the rape clause in the Criminal Code, based on the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention, to be based on consent in the future. I guess that means this session, which is why I say that I think it is a little too bad, because I think that we can work this out together. And we can't do it in this collection; we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102420	When is the Minister planning that the Criminal Code Council should start working on this? As far as I am aware, a new Criminal Justice Council has not been officially set up, which has started working on this, so when does the Minister intend to start this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102441	I sent the appointments to the new Criminal Justice Council before Easter, and it's reduced. Their first task will then be to look at this provision and they will have to do so, so that, in the next session, we can get to work first and, hopefully, get to the point where we can make a joint proposal on it. We just need some smart heads to work together, how exactly this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102507	Thank you for that, there are no more brief comments. Now we have more on the list and we take them in the right order, although Mr. Rune Lund must see himself passed over once more. And the first to speak is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425102523	Thank you. We are dealing with the motion for a resolution called B 146 and, in order to put an end to the misunderstanding which tended to occur just now, it is therefore a question of the Folketing imposing on the government in this parliamentary assembly and then anyone can guess how long it lasts, or at least how long we sit here, to make proposals so that it is based on consent in terms of rape. Technically, this is not possible, and it is not really anymore. The Ministry of Justice has also confirmed this in response to question 3. But, having said that, technicalities should of course not prevent us from debating such an incredibly important subject as this one is, here in the Folketing. What this is basically about is implementing consent-based legislation in the field of rape. We do not have the exact wording. No one can really tell us which legal text is the basis for the formulation in question, which is vital for both the victim and the defendant. But we know that it must be consent-based. It is, and remains, the essential element that women must have consented in one way or another. Otherwise it's rape, I'm one hundred percent in agreement, it's Left one hundred percent in agreement. Whether there is a change in this and the extent to which it is a change in existing legislation, I am not going to be wise here, but I note that a great many believe that this is not the case today and that women are being raped to a large extent where they have not given a plausible consent. And I just have to say that, from the point of view of the Left, sex must be based on voluntaryness, and, if it does not already do so, it must be clearly stated in the law. And on that basis, I think it is excellent that we have now had the Criminal Law Council set up so that it can be made quite clear. In the Left, we want more rapists convicted. It could be your daughter that got hurt. We also want the innocent to go free. It could have been your son that got hurt. Finally, we want to maintain the usual assessment of proof, the usual rule of proof in the Code of Procedure, namely that it is the prosecution that has the burden of proof. And here it must be the burden of proof that women have not given their consent. It is not an easy task to formulate legislative proposals in this area, and this certainly cannot happen within the time frame we have set aside. Every lawyer and every judge knows that it is a very difficult assessment and that it is even more difficult to formulate a legislative text covering these matters. After all, it is not difficult to judge in cases where rape has taken place, where someone has been attacked on a dark path and has thus been mutilated both on body and soul. I do not think that is a problem for the judges in Denmark. On the other hand, what is causing problems is the practical case where two people are interested in an apartment; they have intercourse and the next day there is a police report. It's a claim against claim. There is no technical evidence of rape, which is why it is crucial that we get the Criminal Code to look at whether, in these situations, rape should be condemned and, if so, how it should be done. I hope we can formulate legislation that covers it, but I have not heard how. On the other hand, I have read that many judges are seriously afraid that so-called consent-based legislation will give women's behaviour a higher priority when judging in court, and I have to say that that would be deeply, deeply regrettable. So this is just another example of how important it is to get the Criminal Law Council across so that we get the best possible legislation in this area. I am confident to see that the Justice Minister has now set up the Criminal Code Council to look at this legislation that is incredibly important both for the victim and for the defendant. This requires thorough consideration, and therefore there are both city courts, national courts and Supreme Court judges and professors and other experts on the Criminal Law Council. I would like to see that, but I would not like us to go through a solution in this Assembly. That would be an insult to both the victim and the defendant. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support the proposal, but we can welcome the fact that we now have a revision of the legislation through the thorough examination of the Criminal Code Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103005	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments. And then the ride's come to sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103014	Thank you. A single opposition has put forward this proposal to ensure that we have much more up-to-date legislation on rape. And on the part of Enhedslisten, we also want legislation based on consent, because it is basically about getting legislation that reflects what is right and wrong. For the rape legislation we have today means that it is the woman or the victim who is responsible for rejecting it. If she is completely passive, perhaps for fear or other reasons, it is legitimate for another person to have sex with her, even if she has not said yes in one way or another. In other words, the legislation says that people are, as a rule, entitled to your body unless you say yes, and not that you are entitled to your body as a starting point, unless you say yes. A consent-based legislation will mean that you have the responsibility to ensure that others are okay with what you do to them. You must not just have sex with another person without ensuring that they actually want it. Today you don't have to stop if you're in doubt, you can just keep going. With consent-based legislation, we make sure that if you are in doubt, you have to stop. And there is good reason to make that clear, because it is not only rapists who are freed from it but there are also women who never get reported abuse and there are abuses that are not categorized as what they are, namely abuse, even if they should be. We are pleased that the entire opposition is in the process. When the parliamentary assembly started in 2015, there were only four parties in the opposition that supported consent-based legislation in the field of rape, but fortunately the alternative has also been included. And it must also be noted that the government and the bourgeois parties have moved on this issue and the problem has been recognised. Both what the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice say and, to that extent, what the Minister for Justice says up here from the platform means that the Criminal Law Council must now look at what kind of models can come into play, and that is what the parties behind the proposal here want, as it were. It is very good, and it is in an important area that we have seen a very important political movement. But I also think it is a pity that there cannot be a united Parliament today voting in favour of this proposal. Voting through this proposal does not mean that good legislation can subsequently be made; voting through this proposal by a unanimous Parliament would send out the strongest and clearest signal in relation to the desire to introduce legislation in the field of rape based on consent. At any rate, I am pleased that an overall opposition wants to send that signal very clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103319	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. Does the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Trine Bramsen, wish to speak? No. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is not, and then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103335	Then we shall vote on the final adoption of the proposal. And we can vote now. The vote is over. In favour of voting 50 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. This means that the draft parliamentary resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103426	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103447	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103507	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten... the Red Greens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425103545	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has tabled a number of amendments to these two legislative proposals, and the aim of our amendments is to remove the deterioration of the unemployed, as we can see in the legislative proposals. Unfortunately, we think that the conciliation parties behind the employment policy at least behind these draft laws are suffering from something I would call a compulsion to do nothing good for the unemployed without the devil's violence and power at the same time reducing the conditions of the unemployed in some other areas. We would like to see this deterioration removed before we can vote in favour of the legislative proposals. We pointed this out at first reading, where we thoroughly reviewed this very large legal complex. We commended the good things in it; we criticised the deterioration in it. So I shall not repeat that here. When I take the floor now, it is because we have tabled a further amendment which has not been included in the report. It is a question of volunteering for the unemployed to take part in company practice. After all, the minister likes to say that enterprise-oriented action is the best way to get unemployed in ordinary employment. And that is right when you look at wage subsidies and the results of wage subsidies in private companies. There are fairly good results with it, it is about half who gets into ordinary employment immediately after a completed wage subsidy job. However, if we are talking about company practice, the Minister's own figures show that things look quite different. Only yesterday we received answers to a number of questions we have asked about this, and the answers confirm what we were told about a year ago and which we also had the Minister in consultation on then, namely that there is virtually no employment effect of company practice. The number in ordinary employment 1 month after the end of the internship is basically the same now as it has been since 2013, i.e. 12%, while the latest figure we received showed 111⁄2%. Nearly all other trainees are back on public services after completed work placements. This confirms our view that company practice is primarily a means of making life miserable for the unemployed either because they are ill and cannot work or because they are systematically used as free labour. It is an extensive displacement of ordinary jobs that takes place here. Every year, there are just over 140,000 people in company practice in private companies. With a very careful calculation, this corresponds to approx. 15,000 full-time jobs. We are fully aware that in the draft law the Minister proposes some tightening up of the purpose clause, so that internship should be more focused on ordinary employment and that is, of course, excellent. But we are not very impressed by the wording when you see that somewhere else in the same bill weakens the influence of the employees and trade unions on whether there is abuse in relation to company practices. In order to prevent abuse, we need to take a different approach; therefore, our proposal that it should be voluntary for the unemployed person to take part in company practice. If it is adopted, it will of course mean, as the law also has the obligation for the municipalities to offer the unemployed some offers, that the job centre will then have to offer the unemployed some other offers, namely counselling offers, qualification and training, and that, in the view of Enhedslisten, is also the way we should go. But unfortunately, the government wants to go the other way. After all, the minister does not hide the fact that he wants to press or force the municipalities to spend less resources on what the unemployed need: guidance, retraining and training, and spend more effort on delivering what the companies want, namely some free labour, and that will also be the result of this bill. This is not directly stated in the draft law. I would like to stress that this criticism should not be directed directly at the parties supporting it, but it is of course about the underlying economy, because the government and the Danish People's Party decided a few months ago to remove a billion kroner from the employment efforts of the municipalities. Then it happens that, at the same time, if you remove the obligations of the municipalities and set them freer, compared to what they will do for the unemployed, then it will be the cheapest possible solution that the municipalities choose, and that is the corporate approach. The municipalities are being pressured by the economy to offer what is cheapest and easiest for the municipality and which many companies, not least the large supermarket chains, demand. We think it is time we gave the unemployed some tools to protect themselves from it; therefore our amendment, which of course must also be adopted if we are to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425104046	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments. I would just like to make a small aside of the fact that an expression such as the devil's violence and power is probably part of the tradition we have, so as not to summon the higher powers. I know the devil's usually low, but I think it's part of the rule we have on it. But thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for the presentation. As no one else has asked to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425104124	The amendments to L 209 will be put to the vote first. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. Then I would like to know whether there is a request for a vote on Amendment No. 4, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of ALT). There isn't. Amendment No. 4 adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). And we can vote now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 5 has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 14 outside the Finn Sørensen (EL) report. A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 14 have been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 15-21 outside the Finn Sørensen (EL) report which was rejected. He does not object to this, so they are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 22 outside the Finn Sørensen (EL) report lapsed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 6 has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 8 has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. Nine, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 11 has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Ten, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 12 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT). A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 12 has been rejected. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 13, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT)? Then there should actually be a resounding 'no' if you do not want it. But I understand that silence means the same thing, so the amendment has been adopted. We shall then vote on the amendments to Bill No. L 210. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No. 2-12, tabled and joined by the same minorities who were rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 13 has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 14 and 15, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's A vote can be taken now. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 16 have been rejected. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425104957	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105025	The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105151	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is no such thing, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105218	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, or Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, it shall consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105245	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105312	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal to split the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-16 to the split bill lapsed. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 17-26, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, it shall consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105432	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105451	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a majority (the other committee), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? That is not the case, and that is why the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries]. above the catch rights and the voluntary inshore fishing mark]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Fisheries]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by the Committee? There isn't. It has thus been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105554	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425105611	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (DF), agreed by the committee that the B-part of the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? It's time to be awake. We do not want a vote on this, and the division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals has been adopted. We shall then vote on the draft law mentioned under A [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-20, member of the committee? We do not want a vote on this, so they are adopted. The draft law referred to in C is then voted on [Proposal for a law amending the law on aliens]. Modification of the fixed track system and certification conditions, amendment of the rules on the submission of applications for residence permits, simplification of the rules for researchers, PhD students and the establishment card, simpler arrangements for the authorisation of doctors and dentists, new arrangements for the authorisation of nurses and helping employers, etc.PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 21 and 23-33, elected by the Committee? We do not want a vote and they have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 34 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL). I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 32 (DF and EL), against 72 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 22 and joined by the same minority, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 35 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (EL) and can now be voted on. I shall conclude the vote now. in favour of 32 (DF and EL), against 71 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 35 has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 36-43, member of the Committee? It doesn't, so it's adopted. Final vote on the draft law mentioned under D [Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners]. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 44 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 44 have been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I am quite sure that paragraph 27 could be used in an entertainment programme. It would be difficult to keep track of what we were actually voting on if you were not sitting in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110045	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110117	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? There is no wish to do so and the proposal has been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110140	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110207	Thank you. It is a proposal from the Enhedslisten that is about setting up an expert group that, with the inspiration of public banks in other European countries, must come up with proposals and models for setting up a nationwide publicly operated bank. The government is not in favour of public banks being operated and therefore cannot support the proposal. There is nothing to suggest that the state should be able to find out how to run a bank, in our view. The State does not have those competences, and the State does not have to take over tasks that private companies already perform. I understand that the reason for the proposal is the cases of money laundering and dividend cases in the financial sector in recent times, cases which, of course, are completely unacceptable, but in our view these cases are not an argument for setting up state banks, as state banks are not necessarily a protection against economic crime. Trust in the financial sector must be ensured through regulation and by ensuring effective supervision, including the prevention of financial crime. That is why, of course, we are pleased that a short time ago we managed to reach agreement in the Folketing on an agreement that significantly strengthens the fight against financial crime. The Enhedslisten has asked several times during the parliamentary term why the party cannot be included in the financial conciliation group. This is the group of parties where we usually make legislation or at least make agreements on legislation for the financial sector. • The Enhedslisten has wondered whether there are any differences at all that make us have a financial conciliation group that is not part of the party. I think that a proposal like this illustrates the differences very well. There is a very big difference between Enhedslisten's visions for the financial sector and, at least, the government's visions for the financial sector, where we believe, first and foremost, that it should be driven by the market and not that the state should go in and take over the banking sector. This also applies to the next proposal, which we shall also be considering, from the Enhedslisten, where it is proposed directly that large banks should be split up. Nor is it a vision shared by the government. We want to crack down on financial crime, and I think we have done so with the agreements we have made, where we have lifted the penalties and where we strengthen supervision, because of course we do not accept that some people are condoning money laundering in the financial sector or other forms of financial crime. So we want to be tough on the financial crime that needs to be combated, but we do not want to fight the financial sector, nor do we want the state to take over the financial sector, and there I see quite a difference in the way that the government looks at the financial sector and the way that Enhedslisten views the financial sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110511	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110521	First of all, with regard to the conciliation circle, I would like to say that this is a rather strange argument, since there are parties in the conciliation circle who have previously put forward proposals in this Parliament on public banking offers and which I believe will also support here. So I cannot quite understand why it should be an argument for precisely excluding Enhedslisten. As far as I understand from the Minister of Business in the past, it seems that it is not the Minister of Business, but the Liberal Alliance, which is blocking Enhedslisten's admission. But don't worry about it now. We will have to discuss this when, hopefully, there will be a new government after an election. My question is whether the Minister of Business can confirm that there are already about 17 public banking offers • we are talking su-loans, we are talking Growth Fund, we are talking ATP, which is a regulated investment company, we are talking Export Credit Fund • so that the public sector already participates in credit and in what would normally be associated with banking, and that only banking is aimed at ordinary Danes, ordinary customers, where it is said that we should not have the freedom to choose a public banking offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110615	I am not able to confirm the figure of 17 on a stand-by basis, but I can confirm that the offers made by Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentions, exists. However, I think that there is a very big difference between, for example, having a su system in which the state chooses to subsidise certain citizens, because one wants to support in some way that they can take an education, and looking at the state having to run a bank where you have to run people's accounts for them and carry out all the other tasks that the banks are carrying out today. There is nothing for me and the government to indicate that the state should be able to find out or at least be able to do better than the people in the financial sector who specialise in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110658	If you look out in Europe, there are many good examples of yes, in fact in most countries, that there are public banking offers, some of them local, some of them national, some of them separated into independent public business or in various types of constructions, but with public influence. Where does the Minister for Industry have that the state, or let us say the public, could not find out? What are these experiences? Is it Germany's experience where most German citizens have their primary banking connection with a public savings bank? Is it France where over 13 million French people have their account in the French Banque Postale? Where is it that these terrible experiences come from if we look at the countries with which we usually compare ourselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110747	After all, it is me and my ministry that have the regulation of the financial sector, and I just want to say that we do not feel that we have the powers to set up a state bank. Well, you could do it if you really chose to say that you need a lot of resources; we have to take a lot of money out of the welfare system; we need a lot of public crowns to set up a state bank. You could then build up those skills over time if you really wanted to. It is difficult to see that we can justify spending a lot of tax dollars on it when there are other tasks in society that seem to be more urgent to spend public crowns on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110821	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments, and we shall now move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425110835	Thank you. The Minister for Industry has explained the content of the motion for a resolution, so I should just like to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that it can be said that this debate on publicly run banks is now and again, and the view is not unknown on the part of the Enhedslisten. Ten years ago there was also a discussion when we were in the middle of the financial crisis, in which the Social Democratic Party also participated, but at that time the main problem was that the banks did not borrow money and that there was no liquidity for ordinary small businesses, for example. We resolved this with the series of bank packages that we adopted, and that is why the main problem at that time was another one, and it is not the same today. There are major challenges to be solved in the financial sector, and we have, of course, tried within two years now with three anti-laundering agreements. We think that is an excellent step in the right direction. One can always discuss whether it should be tighter, but we think it is a good answer to some of what Enhedslisten also points out must be part of the sector's future basis. So we do not believe that there is any basis here for creating a genuinely publicly operated bank. We may also think that this would be a relatively risky initiative, given that we must assume that a publicly operated bank could operate and operate on a completely equal basis with other banks. So it will be a rejection of this resolution by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111025	There is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111029	It is true that such a bank will, of course, have to compete on equal terms. If you look at the profits that exist in the financial sector now, it may not be the place where it is hardest to get in and join if you had the weight to do. My question arises from the fact that my experience is that when this is discussed, I get a lot of inquiries where people say: we would really like to have that opportunity, i.e. have the opportunity to choose to have our primary account in a public banking offer, like Swedes, Germans, French and many other Europeans can. Why is it that we don't guarantee this free choice, you can say? Why does the Social Democratic Party not see an advantage in giving the Danes the opportunity to actually opt for a public banking offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111122	One can say that one of the things that happened when we tried to clean up after the first financial crisis that we went through here 10 years ago was that we got there kind of as a public bank it was certainly a public settlement bank so it is not unknown that we had public banks. But back on track. We do not think there is any basis for this, I have to say. I find it difficult to see a Danish model where you have to have a public bank that has to operate on equal terms with the other banks. And that is the reason for it. After all, people choose freely banks today, based on what banks do and especially what they don't do well enough. You can go in and look at who are the most popular banks today, and there you can see that some of the most popular banks are, for example, some of those who have stayed away from some of the things that cause a number of the big banks serious problems today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111221	It is, of course, very good that, among the banks, we have more democratic alternatives that are owned by employees or by customers directly. That is absolutely positive. One of the problems we have is that a number of municipalities have wanted to move their business away from these money laundering banks and tax havens such as Danske Bank and Nordea. However, they are steadily facing the challenge of not being allowed or being able to choose banks other than the SIFI institutions. And that's why they actually don't have a choice. And the Social Democratic Mayor of Faaborg-Midtfyn Municipality, Hans Stavnsager, has therefore among other things. In this context, the Commission considers that the State aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And I think that it must be a bit difficult as a social democrat when you have municipal responsibility, so to enter the whole country with Danske Bank after what we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111326	It is clear that this is a particular challenge. I have known Hans Stavnsager for 30 years or so, so I know him well, and I know his point of view very well, and I also understand the dilemma he is in this debate. We have also had that in my own municipality, Rødovre, where I am from. There have been discussions in the municipal council, and it is of course a question of ensuring that those who would then have to take on a municipal commitment should also be able to deliver it, so to speak. And there is certainly a challenge there. I think it is good that the discussion is there. There is no doubt that this is very important. And I am quite sure that this is something that is being taken down, i.e. that you have discussions at such high levels as there are now in the municipal councils and with such a great commitment that what has happened, for example at Danske Bank, is not just something you discuss in here. In other words, there is a broad popular outrage about it, and it is now getting into decisions in the municipal councils around it. I think that's good in itself. And if it shouldn't make Danske Bank and others behave better in the future, then I hardly know what would make them do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111431	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov, and welcome to Mr. Bødskov. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111441	The proposal put forward here by Enhedslisten clearly creates an expected discussion about what healthy and free competition is when it comes to the provision of finance, banking products and banking services and the services that currently lie with the Danish financial institutions. If you choose to support the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten that a state-run bank should continue to operate, then the question will undoubtedly be: how will it be with the free and equal competition between a state-based bank and a lot of private banks, where it is shareholders and investors and people who may have shares in the bank who will be sitting with it on their shoulders? What will it be like in relation to what we will later be discussing today, namely SIFI institutions under EU regulation in Denmark? Because will it be possible to imagine that a state-run bank could go bankrupt, just as we saw with Tønder Bank, Amager Bank and Roskilde Bank and other banks during the financial crisis, where there were a number of people and investors who experienced incredibly tragic consequences for their pensions and their future private economy? That is why it is not good to support a proposal such as the one put forward here today by Enhedslisten that in some fantasy world one imagines that a state bank could operate in a competitively exposed area just like all other banks in Denmark, just with the parentheses that it is the state that is the guarantor and not investors who are the guarantor. The Danish People's Party simply cannot support this in any way, and I believe that Enhedslisten and Mr. Pelle Dragsted, if you self-search a little, knew what the answers would be from, so to speak, the entire Parliament to this proposal. This is not something that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111705	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111708	It is a bit funny that the rapporteur is talking about fantasy, because this is not fantasy; it is, as it were, reality in a large number of European countries with which we usually compare ourselves. There it works well that you have a public banking offer of one nature or another beside investor-owned banks and then, of course, a strong consumer-owned sector • even stronger in many countries than in Denmark. So when you can make this work in those countries and these banks work in competition with each other, I don't see why it shouldn't be possible in Denmark. We can, of course, check on Sweden, where we have the banks of spades, which are partly owned by local authorities. It must also be said that competition today does not work very well. We have the whole problem of the whole customer relationship, i.e. it is unfortunately not so easy to change the bank, and we have also seen that the fees in Denmark have increased by 57%, where the general trend, as far as I remember, is about 12%. other goods and services. This is a very special development in Denmark, such as Denmark. has not taken place in Germany or in Sweden. That is why I think one might wonder whether there is no need for the competition that a public bank offer could give to the investor-owned banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111823	Now I do not know where the questioner has 57 per cent, because if you look at the figures that Enhedslisten himself presents, it says 53 per cent. In relation to the increase in fees, but that is exaggeration, I do well to promote understanding, and I would like to say that I think, moreover, that 53 per cent. is abundant in itself, so there is no reason to start gearing. If a private citizen in Denmark is not happy to have an easy account, which one must of course have in one of the banks which there are and which one thinks is too private and too commercially run, they could, for example, have. Choose now I can make advertising • Loan & Spar Bank. They have excellent departments around Denmark. I'm not a customer of that bank myself, by the way, so that's not why I'm saying it. But they do have a different type of ownership structure, where they are actually owned by members. So you have that opportunity today, if you want it. But the answer to that, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted's coming with us isn't that we're gonna set up a state bank. The discussion, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted would like to travel, is around bank charges and contribution rates and price cut costs and everything else. It is good, healthy things to discuss in the Folketing, but the medicine for it is good enough not to create a state bank that must compete commercially with privately run banks where there are many others who are investors in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425111952	The latter, I think, is not quite correct. Well, we see, for example. In the field of mortgage lending and the group of experts set up by the government, which produced a report almost two years ago, it concluded very, very clearly already on page 2, that the reason for the rise in mortgage lending prices was that a change in ownership structures had been seen where the old association-owned mortgage and government mortgage funds had been replaced by investor-owned public limited companies, which simply demanded a higher return. So yes, having an offer that does not have an expectation of a return of 10-12 per cent. In the financial sector, of course, will put pressure on private banks. That is what we have seen in the field of mortgage credit. That's why home owners throughout Denmark right now experience their mortgage loans becoming more expensive. This is because there is no longer a sector that is not driven by a short-term profit interest that can compete with the profit-oriented sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112053	Yes, but now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution has said that what you can see in other countries is that it works there. But if you look back at the whole financial crisis and the developments that have taken place, for example in the total cost for Danish companies and Danish private households who have had consumer loans etc., you can see that because of the very high investor confidence in Denmark, the financing costs were significantly lower in Denmark than in many of the countries that Enhedslisten sits and compares with in this case. It is said that they have some sort of state banks in other countries where it can be done. Yes, but should one not try to assess the extent and quality of what we offer know how much investor confidence there is, including from foreign investors, which in fact makes the whole financial crisis proven that interest rates and total financing costs were much lower in Denmark than in the countries with which Enhedslisten compares?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112145	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112155	Thank you. As others have already explained, the proposal is that the Enhedslisten wants a working group to be set up to propose how a publicly operated bank can be set up in Denmark. We cannot support this on the part of the Left. And it is probably not the world's biggest surprise that we do not believe that the public should own and run banks. Basically, we do not think that the state should enter a well-functioning private market and create competition with taxpayers' money in the back. In this context, let me anticipate a question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted • whether it is 17 or another number • about, for example, the Growth Fund, the Export Credit Fund and everything else, which are, after all, areas where we have said that there is not a well-functioning private market. And there we have chosen to set up some arrangements because there is not a functioning private market; that is, there is a market error and then the public goes in and remedys it. But there is no such thing when it comes to ordinary banking. There are over 60 different financial institutions in Denmark that can be chosen as a customer, and I do not believe in principle that the State should operate in competition with private companies. Nor do I think that taxpayers should provide risk capital for basic commercial activities. If a bank goes down today, it is the shareholders who lose the money; if it were a state bank, it would be taxpayers who lost the money. I do not need to say anything more than that we are in principle opposed to the public having to conduct commercial banking, and that is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112345	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112353	It is a little interesting, of course, that we have parties which, to a very large extent, tend to take up the citizens' right to a free choice. For example, you have... No problem at all, if there are any problems in the public sector in one place or another, is that the solution is for citizens to be able to choose a private alternative. Now we have had a private financial sector which, over the last 10 to 15 years, has repeatedly failed the citizens and society; which has been committed to creepy, immoral and criminal acts; which has thanked the bank packages by raising the fees by more than 50%. But here we do not want to give citizens a free choice to be able to choose a public offer. So free choice always goes only the opposite way. If the public is not doing well, then citizens must have free choice for the private sector. If the private does not do well, citizens must not have free choice for a public banking alternative. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112456	Yeah, it's incredibly close. The problem is that, if the citizen does not have the free choice of a public service, the public has a monopoly. If the public monopoly does not deliver well enough, does not ensure that citizens receive the services and services they are entitled to, then citizens do not have an alternative place to go if it was not for free elections. But there are more than 60 financial institutions in Denmark, so if you are unhappy with your financial institution, there are alternatives. And then I see no reason why we should also create a public alternative for taxpayers' money as risk capital, when there is a well-functioning private market. So in my optics, there is a huge difference between whether you have a freedom of choice among 60 players or whether you are locked in a public monopoly, so it is only a shame if you are squeezed as a citizen, because you have no alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112556	Well, there is the challenge that the major players among the 60 are characterised by the same quality, namely that they have some shareholders who expect a return of 10-12 per cent. a year. We have seen dividends paid out in excess of 20 billion, as I recall. kr. Last year. For Danske Bank alone, as far as I remember, it was 20 billion. kr., if you count stock buy-back programmes. That money comes from somewhere, and it's from the citizens' pockets. It is obvious; that is where the money comes from. Of course, a public banking offer that would rest in itself, which would only serve its own business, would give citizens an opportunity to say: we do not really want shareholders to pull 20 billion. kr. out of our pockets every year in terms of fees and interest rates. It is, after all, another kind of offer that would give citizens free choice to ■ like the citizens of Sweden, Germany and France and many other European countries have free choice. Why is it that the Left does not want to give citizens free elections in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112658	We do not want to do so because, among the more than 60 different financial institutions that are in Denmark, there are also cooperative funds, and there are savings banks, where the equity capital of the guarantors constitutes equity capital, and where representatives' meetings and other agreements are made, what the ambition of this financial institution is in relation to earnings, returns and everything else. That is why I believe that as a citizen you have a free choice and I do not see that the State should operate commercially in a well-functioning private market. In principle, I think this is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112735	Thank you to Torsten Schack Pedersen and welcome to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. That's because Enhedslisten goes to the bottom of the day. The rapporteur for the proposers has the privilege of being allowed to speak last.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425112759	Thank you. Yeah, I just forgot. In the Liberal Alliance, we are working for a smaller Danish public sector, which is already one of the world's largest. We are working for it to be smaller and not bigger. Another thing is that the state should not operate and with tax dollars in its back outcompete private companies. If a state bank is set up, any losses will have to be covered by taxpayers rather than by shareholders. We think that's a bad idea too. And then resources will have to be allocated to building up competences in the public sector that are not present today, and I would rather spend those resources on welfare and tax cuts. The proposal argues that the banks have high fees. There are many things to say about this. It may well be that there are some banks that have too high fees, and then it is the customer's job to go shopping on the market, go out and compare the prices of the individual banks. Precisely because you have a free choice and because there are so many banks to choose from, you as a customer should go out and see where it is cheapest, where the lowest fees are, and then choose the bank with the lowest fees. If a public bank were to be established, it would also have to charge some fees, and there is little to suggest that the public should be able to run a bank cheaper or better than the private one. In any case, there are not many examples of the public sector being cheaper and better than private alternatives. In addition, the increase in charges may also have to be seen in the context of the very falling interest rates, which in many respects are less interest rates. In addition, we in this House and the government have made very great demands on the soundness of banks. That is why it is also important that the banks ensure that they have the income to meet the solidity requirements that we impose on them. Another argument put forward by the proposers is that we should have public banks, because then they are publicly controlled. But there is hardly an industry in Denmark that is as publicly controlled as the banking sector is. For the Liberal Alliance, it is generally important that we have a healthy and stable financial sector in Denmark, and we therefore do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113104	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113110	In other words, what is in favour of being able to provide a cheaper service is that there are no investors who expect a rate of return to the extent that, for example, they do not. the large Danish banks have. It is clear that it is money that customers save when large dividends and buy-back programmes do not have to be paid out every year, such as for example. to Danske Bank's shareholders. This is also the experience we have in the field of mortgage credit: when the association-owned and state mortgage funds were taken over by public limited companies, prices rose. So I think that is quite clear. The Liberal Alliance is very much in favour of this issue of citizens' freedom, at least they say. In countries where there is a public banking offer, for example: In Germany, let us take Germany as an example: the majority of citizens actually choose the bank connection rather than other banking links that exist in the free market. If we are in favour of freedom, should we not also give the citizens of Denmark the opportunity to choose a safe, public, non-speculative banking alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113218	Thank you. The fact that private banks and private companies also have to make money in other areas and are therefore more expensive than the public sector is an argument that does not hold anywhere. For the private sector, if they can't do well, if they can't deliver a good service and the best quality, then they go bankrupt. So they simply have to be both best and cheapest. If they are not, they can go bankrupt, whereas a public bank may be quite indifferent to it, because if they cannot make profits, they just require some more taxpayers' money because they are not in competition and because they cannot go bankrupt. So it's actually a force when private people depend on making money. That is what creates the competition that provides better services and cheaper services. After all, in almost all areas where private people compete with the public sector, we are looking at the individual services, and the private sector is cheaper than the public sector. So I don't think it really lasts. As far as free choice is concerned, there is a free choice, because there are a lot of banks and savings banks in Denmark that you can choose from, and customers should be much better at going out and using the free choice and going shopping among the banks and choosing the best and cheapest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113344	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113348	I think it was the previous rapporteur who was talking about imagination. However, when the rapporteur says that the big banks can go bankrupt, it is fantasy. Then it's pure fantasy, we've seen that. Since the largest Danish bank, Danske Bank, should not be allowed to be called that, but it is said that it had got itself into completely irresponsible behaviour up to the financial crisis, what was it that happened? Did we let it go bankrupt? No, it was exactly the taxpayers who paid. And so it will be in the future. That is why one might well ask oneself: is it fair that in good years a bank can run with huge profits, but when the crisis scratches, it is the citizens who are going to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113433	This is absolutely not fantasy. We have seen many banks go bankrupt, and these are precisely the banks that have not done well enough. They've gone bankrupt. Danske Bank did not go bankrupt and they did not cost taxpayers money. On the contrary, there was a huge surplus for taxpayers. We provided a guarantee that was never used. In fact, Danske Bank tried several times to pay off their loans early because they were too expensive because the state made a huge profit with money on it. But Danske Bank could not be allowed to repay their loans early because it was a good business for the state. So it did not cost the state and taxpayers money, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113515	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113523	If you look at the overall cost of the financial crisis to Denmark and the Danish citizens, then Jesper Rangvid, the expert behind the Rangvid Committee, has made it clear that from 2009 to 2013 alone the crisis cost the Danes 400 billion. kr., and has recently estimated that there is a permanent welfare loss of 200 billion. kr. a year. So to say that it has almost been a huge surplus business to have had a financial crisis and that all the bills have been paid by the banks, I think perhaps is to tighten the screw a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113601	But now it is happening that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is mixing the financial crisis with money laundering. Because it is quite clear that money laundering has cost a lot of money. Now it is primarily the shareholders who have paid for it, but it has cost the community money and there is no doubt about that at all. But a state bank will not be a guarantor against that. That you can be used as a bank for money laundering may as well happen to a public bank as it can to a private bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113635	But now I am a little confused because I thought that Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup referred to the loans granted in the wake of the financial crisis, that is to say the bank loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113648	So did I.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113654	Thank you to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113707	Thank you very much. The Radical Left is grateful for the debate, nor is it possible to support the motion for a resolution as it stands. And we cannot do that for the simple reason that we think that consumers in Denmark have many good alternatives, including some of the co-operated savings banks and Mercury Andelskasse, which I myself have, and the Workers' Landsbank. There are many different kinds of financial institutions in Denmark, and after all there is also some competition. That is why we do not immediately see the need for public banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113728	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113732	Well, thank you for a brief but clear rapporteur speech. I fully agree, of course, that it is very positive that we still have a cooperative and savings bank sector, which does not have to deliver these very exorbitant profits to shareholders year after year. It is a little under pressure for various reasons, among others. because it is in a slightly unequal competitive relationship with the SIFI banks, which can finance themselves cheaper. This is a long discussion and we will come to that later today. But when, for example, it does. As far as the municipalities are concerned, we can see that these smaller banks, co-owned banks and savings banks are either unable to offer themselves the services that the municipalities need or cannot, because they are not covered by the SIFI stamp and the municipalities are apparently advised, according to a reply we have received, only to take banks that have this SIFI stamp because they have a state guarantee on their backs. Could that not be an argument for getting a bank that was public or semi-public? We therefore propose that it should be placed as a self-employed fund, which could offer it to the municipalities of the country, so that they would not have to choose between the two, if you are to put it a bit harshly, the money-laundering bank or the tax havens bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425113859	Well, I think I'm gonna take a look at this in principle. If there is a lack of bank offerings of a special cut out there, is it appropriate that the state or the municipality, in other words the government, should try to go in and politically design a new product that may be missing out there? And I don't think it is. I do not think it is more likely that in here we will be able to find out, if I may say so, in the end, than that the market itself will be able to develop the products that all kinds of customer segments, including municipalities and public institutions, may need. It is a long and large discussion in principle about where the risks on the capital side lie best and how the capital market can best function. And, as I said, I do not entirely believe that in the discussions that Mr. Pelle Dragsted travels in here, is necessarily better at deciding it than you are out in a market where a multitude of different more or less • or not at all commercial players work very specifically and professionally to precisely develop these products.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114013	This is an interesting fundamental discussion which is not so black and white, because we already have it in a number of areas; I have mentioned it before. We have su loans, but a bank could offer that as well. We have the Growth Fund, which provides loans to companies, and the Export Credit Fund. There are also banks that find it rather annoying that there are these public offers, and Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, it's because there's a market error here. But now that we have municipalities that cannot get out of the money laundering banks, is it not also an example of a market error and precisely a place where, as politicians, we should make this type of decision? Of course, there has to be an arm's length arm. I mean, it's not because I'm suggesting that Pelle Dragsted be the bank manager, and I don't have the skills to do that at all. We are, of course, talking about a completely professional banking business, but which is regulated by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114103	I would say that if municipalities want to switch to another bank, they also have the opportunity today, and they want a quite wide range of institutes to choose from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114112	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard, and welcome to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114121	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, our rapporteur in this area is not here today, so on his behalf I shall take over the debate on the proposal. In the alternative, we are very positive about Enhedslisten's proposal to set up a group of experts to look into the possibility of a publicly operated bank so that we can get a qualified input to this discussion. We believe that citizens in Denmark should have the opportunity to opt out of private banks. It is important that we take back control together so that a safer and more transparent monetary system is established in Denmark. All citizens must have the confidence to know that their money is managed in the most appropriate way. In the alternative, we have among other things. As part of this, it proposed the introduction of an e-crown system under the auspices of the National Bank. Here citizens must have the opportunity to deposit their money independently of the private banks. In addition, we have proposed that the financial sector and the banking sector should be split up. We need to ensure that the money of each household and business is guaranteed. We want to create greater stability in the banking system. That is why we support the proposal to set up a group of experts on this subject, so we thank you for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114248	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114302	Thanks to Enhedslisten for raising this discussion and suggesting setting up a group of experts to look at a model for a publicly operated bank. It is also something that the SF proposed in 2009 when the financial crisis raged. At that time, the Social Democratic Party was in favour of the idea. And as we have heard in the course of the debate, this is not a completely new idea either in Denmark or in Europe. We have had Girobanken, which actually worked very well in many ways, but then it was slowly incorporated into Danske Bank. And I think it might say a little bit about this eternal discussion that the public can't run a bank, but that private people are really good at it. Then it is here that we actually have state banks, also mentioned. Do we have public banks in Denmark? And about a year ago, I asked that question to the then Minister for Business, Brian Mikkelsen, because he always said that we in the SF just wanted to have a state bank. Then I asked the question of how many state banks we saw had, provided that loans were granted to companies, non-public organisations, etc. The answer was that the premise was not accepted, because there were no state banks, but if you had to count up how many of these loans were granted, there were 25, of which 10 were in liquidation. One of them is the Growth Fund; we also have the Green Growth Fund; we have the Export Credit Fund and so on. Then we'll hear from Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen that it is a special scheme because it is a way to correct a market error. But then you can ask if we do not also have another market failure today, when we have the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority's report of 2017, which expresses a indignant criticism of the lack of competition in our mortgage market, where only four players are in charge of mortgage lending. And it is repeated many times in this report that there is no competition and that it means higher prices and poorer products, that it is harder to vote with feet etc. Then, in fact, we also have a very special arrangement in our own National Bank. The employees have an account in the National Bank, and they can borrow 100,000 kroner. without collateral and they can borrow an additional 0.5 million. kr. at 1%. over the discount account, which today is 1%. In total. So if you work at the National Bank, you can have an account in the perhaps ultimate public bank, Denmark's National Bank. I think that's a little funny. I also think it is part of the discussion that when you demand that all citizens of this country have an easy account, you should also make available the infrastructure that needs to be provided. I really do not even think that we need to mix money laundering, crises or anything else into this discussion. It is also relevant, but when we have a basic infrastructure in our country, namely when you have to have an easy account you cannot opt out of it there should also be an opportunity for this. We believe from the SF that it would be exciting to see what a group of experts could make of proposals. So we support the Enhedslisten's proposal to set up a group of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114707	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we have come to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114716	Thank you very much. This is a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which calls for the creation of a group of experts which, with the inspiration of other European countries, must come up with proposals and models to set up a national public bank, and I can at least say quite quickly that this is not something that the Conservative People's Party can support, and that is probably no surprise either. We do not believe that it is appropriate for the state to be involved in banking, nor do we generally believe that the public should operate where there is a functioning private market. There have been some cases of money laundering in the financial sector, and this is of course unacceptable, and that is also why we have tightened the legislation in here on a number of occasions in fairly broad agreements and we have tightened the penalties so that you are hit with the big hammer if you violate the rules. In addition, a lot of new regulation has also been introduced since the financial crisis, both at national and international level. So basically, we in Denmark actually have a strong financial sector, which is well capitalised and very well regulated, and that is one of them. also help to ensure that we have low interest rates and low transaction costs, and again it will be for the benefit of the Danes for the citizens and for the companies when they need to finance themselves. It is our belief that a publicly operated bank should not compete with the current system and thus also risk creating a financial turmoil on the Danish market, which is basically strong, so of course we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114900	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425114906	Some of the studies carried out by public participation in the financial sector include: on the part of the World Bank, shows that one of the benefits to business in particular of the presence of public banking offers is that public banking offers are more countercyclical. We also saw that in the financial crisis. Incredibly much was borrowed, too much, right up to the crisis. When the crisis hit, many small businesses closed down their bank credit; I have friends who quickly closed down their bank credit and had to close down the business. One of the things that economists in the World Bank and elsewhere have pointed out is that the public banking offer typically has a more countercyclical lending policy, which does not move, if you may say so, with the business cycle, but more towards the business cycle. And that is certainly something that would benefit not least small traders. Does the rapporteur see an advantage in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115013	Both 'yes' and 'no', because, of course, we must be careful to lend in a situation where there is a downward economic situation. In fact, that may be what causes us to run the risk of being unnecessarily and too much in a situation where the economy is going the wrong way. But we also have arrangements and this has been part of the debate here today which, in fact, supports some of the things that Mr. Pelle Dragsted mentions something like the Export Credit Fund, which can agree to provide a guarantee in cooperation with a bank and thus also provide some funding. These are quite excellent arrangements that we have there, which we also support from the conservative side. So there are some advantages to some of the things we have done, but these are some of the places where we say that there may be a need to help something, for example. Danish export, in relation to the Export Credit Fund etc. Basically, however, I must say that I am convinced that the private market, the private banks, is best placed to make the credit rating that is necessary in relation to loans to both private and business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115114	This is one of the places where I sometimes think that the Conservative People's Party has too little look for some of the small traders. Because it is true that the Export Credit Fund is fantastic for some of our major export companies, as well as the Growth Fund; but when it comes to the hairdresser on the main street in Hobro, it is not he who gets help from the Growth Fund or the Export Credit Fund. But he was the one who closed his overdraft when the crisis hit. It is they, moreover, not least in agriculture, where some of the smaller farms are severely affected by the fee increases that have been affected by the concentration of ownership that we have in the financial sector, particularly in the mortgage market. So, even from the point of view of business policy, I think that there are a great many good arguments for not being as negative as the rapporteur does in relation to the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115202	In fact, I believe that it is best to help many of the small businessmen by making it easier for them to focus their efforts on doing business, in other words to get rid of some of the bureaucracy and the burdens and some of the trouble that there is, for example. to pursue a self-employed activity. I think that is the greatest challenge for them, because then they can concentrate on running and developing their business, which they are passionate about as entrepreneurs. So I think that's where you have to take action first and foremost if you're going to support that part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115227	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no more brief comments. Now we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten ▪ De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425115245	Thank you very much, and thank you for the debate, which is, of course, the first of two debates we will have today, on the financial sector and on how we can get a financial sector which, perhaps to a little greater extent than the one we know today, works for the benefit of ordinary Danes, whether you are a citizen or in small businesses. Basically, this proposal is about giving citizens greater freedom. It is about creating more effective competition, and it is about ensuring a greater democratic impact on investment flows in our society. And I'll start with the first thing about free choice. In many other European countries, citizens are free to choose whether they want to have their banking business in an investor-owned bank, in other words a limited company, whether they want to have it in a cooperative bank or a savings bank, or whether they want to have a public banking connection. This is the case in Germany, where the majority of Germans have this kind of banking connection. We see it in Sweden and in France and many other places. I have, of course, experienced, especially after the scandals of recent years, that a great many citizens say: Why can't I have my account in a public banking offer? As I said, if we look into Europe, we can see that 10%. of the financial sector is 100% state owned. If you count the banks that have been bailed out, as they say, which are temporarily taken over by the state, then we are as much as 30 percent. As the SF's rapporteur mentioned earlier, we also had Girobank, who acted as a state bank, where you could keep your account. And that's kind of just what we want again. We do not want there to be just one bank offer and that it should be state. We want there to be a public banking offer in line with the other banking offers we know from other countries. One of the places where we obviously have a problem with free choice is in our municipalities. Following the scandals, a number of major municipalities have tried to move their bank connections away from Danske Bank or Nordea or some of the other banks that have been hit by scandals. But it's turned out to be very, very difficult. Firstly, because it seems that it requires a bank with a certain amount of money, not so many people are going in but partly because one gets the recommendation that only so-called SIFI banks, i.e. banks, have been given this state guarantee in the back against not being able to go bankrupt, which is really in that concept. So it forces a municipality like Svendborg to choose between either the money laundering bank on the one hand or the tax havens on the other. And that seems to me to be a democratic problem, that is to say, although a majority of citizens in a municipality actually want a different bank connection for their municipality, they are not actually able to choose it. A public banking offer could also be an answer to that. I mentioned earlier that the Social Democratic Mayor of the City of Faaborg-Midtfyn, Hans Stavnsager, in a chronicle, has proposed exactly that on the basis of his frustration at his experiences with the offers that were available. Another advantage in addition to this is that there would be better competition. After all, we have seen a lot of reports in recent years that show that competition in the Danish financial sector is, to put it mildly, not very well functioning. This is, of course, the case in the mortgage sector, where we have very large mastodons and very little competition, but it is also the case in the financial institutions where we see that the Danes are some of those who change the very least bank compared to many other countries. And that's because it's not that easy. I just had an experience with it myself. I'm redeploying a loan. I've had brfkredit for many years, and I've been kind of happy about that. It was, moreover, an old state mortgage fund set up by the general housing companies together with the state back in the 1950s. It's been taken over by Jyske Bank. The money from the sale is, moreover, a completely different story... ended up in a fund that five self-appointed people manage without any democratic influence, despite the fact that it was the general housing sector and the state that shot in the original money, and of course the borrowers. But we can take that another day. I would now like to have my loan changed, and there I am told that the prerequisite for that is that I should move not only me but also the people I live with to Jyske Bank, i.e. our entire banking business, all of them. It is, after all, one of these examples of, I think, a lack of competition in our sector which is deeply problematic. And I believe that the presence of a public banking offer could put pressure on private banking offers, as we see in a number of other countries. It is probably not by chance that it is in Denmark that we have seen such a sharp increase in fees compared to some of the countries where there is a stronger presence of public ownership, but also a stronger presence of consumer ownership, i.e. cooperative funds and savings banks. A further argument is about economic stability. That is what I said a short time ago. A lot of research has been done which shows that the problem with private, investor-owned banks is that they are acting very procyclically. That means that when things go well in the economy, they lend a lot of money. That's usually where we need them not to borrow so much money. And when things go bad in the economy, they close the box to small businesses. And that's where we needed them to actually start the loans, or at least kept their hands on some of these small businesses. There is therefore evidence that public banks and, moreover, consumer-owned banks are acting in a much more countercyclical manner. I think many small businessmen could have enjoyed that. I myself know people who simply closed their overdraft from one day to the next. Not because they did not have a well-functioning business, but because a financial crisis had hit the banks. The last argument is a little more high-handed, but it is about democratic influence. In this time when we need to move huge investments in a very short time in order to reorganise our economy in a green and sustainable direction, I think one can ask oneself whether the investment decisions taken in our society are something we dare leave to a relatively reduced group of investors and shareholders. Or whether it would make sense for us, as citizens, to be more able, through consumer-owned banks and as citizens through public financial institutions, to direct investment flows towards some of the investments that we need here and now. So that is the main argument as to why we think this proposal is important. There have been some arguments in the debate, and thank you for that. One argument has been whether the state has any competence at all for this. And it is clear that I do not imagine that neither I nor anyone else will be bank managers in a public bank. It is clear that there must be professional leadership, just as we know it from ATP or other public or semi-public institutions run professionally. And, of course, this should also be the case with a public bank, as is the case in other countries, but with a democratic opportunity to exert influence and a democratic framework around the bank. And first of all, with the quality that distinguishes them from the investor-owned banks, namely that it should rest in itself. It was not intended to deliver large annual profits to external shareholders. It has been said that we have a well-functioning market. I also mentioned this question, and I believe that a great many people will disagree with it. So, to conclude, I would like to thank you for an interesting debate. I think it is a good thing that these scandals have given rise to more fundamental and fundamental debates on what kind of financial sector we want. I can hear that we are not going to get this proposal adopted this time, but I hope that the debates we have had and are going to have will clear up some of the, I think, somewhat black-and-white and mythical discussions we have had. I would say that when I did this work myself on Enhedslisten's financial sector initiative, I was actually surprised at how much public participation there is in the European banking sector and how much research shows that it can actually be quite healthy for a financial sector to have that presence. I hope we can get this into the debate so that we can have a more thorough and enlightened debate on these issues in the future. But thank you for today's debate, at least for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120138	You're welcome. But it's not quite over yet. There are a few brief remarks, and the first is from Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120147	Thank you, President. I am aware that the rapporteur, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, finally mentions that these are myths and that myths would like to be struck down, and that is where I think the Enhedslisten could start with one of their own myths, because the rapporteur has repeatedly advocated that this should be carried out and, among other things, takes note. from the point of view of the fact that Danish municipalities cannot choose a non-SIFI bank as a bank connection, and in fact the rapporteur also specifically went in and mentioned the municipality of Svendborg on Funen. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if the rapporteur is not aware of the fact that, for example, there is a risk that the Commission will not be able to take action in this area. The municipality of Hedensted, where I come from then I know it and which is fairly similar to the municipality of Svendborg and has about the same number of inhabitants, has actually moved bank from Danske Bank and over to Middelfart Sparekasse, which is now the municipality's bank. And would the rapporteur not also at the same time confirm that Middelfart Sparekasse is not an SIFI bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120246	Thank you. Just the first thing to do with myths: No. When I talk about myths, it is more that sometimes, when we have discussed these issues, some scare pictures have been drawn up that it is pure North Korea and the Soviet Union and nationalisation of the banks. That was more so, and I really think it is a good thing that we have been able to have a serious discussion about a public offer free of the character that the discussion has sometimes had in the past. I think that is a good thing and I think that is important. Because I think we all agree that the way our financial sector has developed over the last 20 to 30 years should be debated after what we have seen. I didn't know about the example of Hedensted, but thank you for that. All I know is that our municipal people and also our people in KL have had a very thorough study of what the possibilities are, and I have some written evidence that it has been very, very difficult, and it may have something to do with the extent of municipalities, what type of activities they have and others, but it has been difficult and in some places impossible to move from Danske Bank. We have also seen it with the state's bank connection, where you had to choose Danske Bank once and for all in the middle of this crisis. I do not think that was a very good signal to send to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120400	We are trying to get around it, but what the rapporteur is standing on the floor saying that the municipalities cannot change banks is myth formation. It has been mentioned in several questions to others in this Chamber during the debate on the proposal, and the rapporteur himself goes up and mentions in his rapporteur's speech that one of the reasons why it is important for us to have a state bank is that the municipalities cannot change banks. I think it is rather strange that the rapporteur should say that he has not just examined it. No, but so, there are Danish municipalities, which can easily change bank even to a Funen bank. Middelfart Sparekasse is located on Funen, and the municipality of Svendborg, which the rapporteur claims cannot change bank, is also located on Funen. It may be that you have not chosen politically in the municipality to accept the offers you have received, and it may be that someone has not bid for the assignment, but Enhedslisten makes it as a valid argument here in the Danish Parliament and says: Now you must hear you cannot change the bank. That is where I think Enhedslisten should take on board the fact that you can actually say that they have been wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120513	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120517	Well, it would be great if we in Enhedslisten were wrong about this, but I just have countless examples that are not Hedensted, but it is the case of Copenhagen, some of the municipalities around the region, the municipality of Svendborg and a number of other municipalities where you have had those discussions and where it has proved extremely difficult to break the link with Danske Bank and to get another bank offer. And it can be said that all municipalities are forced to operate with what is called the SKB payment system, and it is therefore the state that enters there, and it has ended up with Danske Bank once more. As far as I remember, it was because no one else offered the assignment, but it is also a problem if there are no others, then there is no real competition and a real opportunity to opt out of Danske Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120603	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120607	Thank you. Fortunately, it is not going to be a reality with a public bank, but I would like to ask Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted: Who had Mr. Pelle Dragsted imagined that he would pay for the establishment of a public bank, and who would pay to build up the competences that would need to be built up in the public sector, and who would have to pay for a possible loss in a public bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120639	As far as initial capital is concerned, we have proposed a working group, which we are proposing should look at the fact that there is a state loan guarantee in the first place to set up the bank and that it should start operating as a digital offer, just as we know it primarily from, for example. such things as Coop Bank and other banks that operate primarily on a digital platform. But, of course, the loan to be granted must be repaid. And once it is established, the bank must be operated and rest itself. We are proposing a construction similar to the one we have with the ATP, where it is a self-serving institution but is regulated by law, in this case under the Ministry of Employment. And in this case, it will be under the Ministry of Business. Now I wondered what the second part of the question was. Maybe I can have it in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120737	Yeah, that was one of them. in relation to any losses. And Mr. Pelle Dragsted says that the loans must of course be repaid. Yeah, that's what every private bank dreams of. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted suggests that a public bank should grant loans to citizens and companies in situations where a private bank considers the risk to be too high. That would, of course, give an additional risk of losses in a public bank, and who would have to pay any losses?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120812	Of course, a credit rating had to be made, as in all other banks. Well, it's not something like that, sir. Pelle Dragsted is making this up; it is something that works in a number of other countries. Let's take France as an example... there you have Banque Postale. It is a bank located under the French Post Office, just as GiroBank did at home, serving 13 million customers, and also taking on some special tasks, for example. offer an account to persons who otherwise find it difficult to obtain a bank account. So when you can make this work in many other countries, I find it very difficult to see why we in a well-developed, modern and in many ways effectively functioning society like the Danish one should not be able to make it work. In relation to how we could then set up a branch network, we would like to see, for example, the establishment of a branch network. took over Vestjysk Bank or some of the banks that smoked in Financial Stability, i.e. in the State garbage cabinet, and used them as a basis for setting up a public bank. Thus, if you hadn't sold out Vestjysk Bank, you would have had a sensible branch network precisely in some of the parts of Denmark where it can often be difficult for citizens and companies to access credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425120919	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no more brief comments. I would like to know if anyone else would like to speak. There is no such thing, and that is the end of the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next item on the agenda is the lunch break and it starts in a moment when I call the bell. And we'll get back to work at 8:00. 13.00. Enjoy your dinner break.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130000	We are opening negotiations with the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130030	Thank you. Then we have reached the second round, a little on the same ball street, a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten to set up a financial structural commission to examine the potential for and assess the advantages and disadvantages of a division of systemically important financial institutions, the so-called SIFIs, i.e. the large banks. The government does not want to split up the banks and cannot therefore support the proposal. As I said at the previous point, where Enhedslisten proposed to create a public bank, the government and Enhedslisten have very different visions for the financial sector. We in the government want to fight economic crime hard, but we do not want to fight the financial sector as such. We do not want the state to run banks, nor do we want to have banks split up. Of course, there are some challenges to having very large banks, which make up a very large part of the economy, because if they go bankrupt, there is a risk that they can pull down the entire economy. We are very aware of this, and that is why there are also a large number of requirements for the large banks, which are much stricter than the requirements for other banks. The SIFIs must meet tough liquidity and capital requirements. They are subject to a special so-called SIFI supplement and there are other requirements in the capital requirements legislation, and the SIFI supplement varies with the systemicity of institutions, i.e. their size. In addition, large institutions set a capital objective which reflects the institution's capital plans and management's assessment of capital needs. Danske Bank has a capital target for a solvency ratio of more than 20%, which is a large increase over the pre-financial crisis, with a solvency ratio of 13% at the end of 2008. Then I would also like to emphasise that we in Denmark have, of course, implemented the EU Crisis Management Directive. The main principle, as has also been the principle in Denmark since banking package III, is that it is the shareholders and creditors of the institutions who have to bear the losses in the event of a bank having problems. It's not the state that has to bear the losses. SIFIs should not be encouraged to risk too much in the expectation that the state will save them if things go wrong. One of the most important things is the requirements for the so-called write-down liabilities, the NEP requirements, and it is the SIFIs that have received the highest NEP requirements in order to address the systemic nature of institutions. Thus, NEPs are claims that are lost if a bank is going bankrupt. Danske Bank has received a NEP claim of 33 per cent. of the risk-weighted exposure amounts corresponding to approx. 235 billion kr. That's a lot of money. It is a big buffer to be able to take off if you are about to go bankrupt, which means that we consider the likelihood that we would get into a situation where it would be the state that would have to pay to hold hands under Danske Bank, for example, as very small. Before that, there would have been huge losses among shareholders and creditors, and we expect this to be a strong incentive for both shareholders and creditors to keep the institutions on the right path and that they do not start taking a lot of risks in anticipation of the state then coming and saving them. The FSA's data show that the loss risk associated with Danish SIFI's loans is significantly lower than the risk associated with the loans of the small and medium-sized institutions, and this is of course remarkable. This means that there are no indications that the SIFIs base credit on an expectation of state rescue measures. If there were, it could be expected that there would then be a greater risk-taking in the large banks than in the small banks, and that is not the case according to the FSA's data. So I would like to conclude by saying that the separation of banks will create disadvantages for customers. Today, customers benefit from so-called full customer benefits. It can, for example, be done. be in the form of discounts, and it can be the service of large companies, where you get service in one bank on several different activities that the bank solves for you. This would then not be possible if the banks were to split up and only be allowed to take care of certain activities and there would then be other companies that took care of other activities. Overall, therefore, it is the view of the government that we have taken good care of the systemicity that the large Danish banks currently constitute and that we are opposed to fragmentation. We are for a number of reasons. I have explained here some specific drawbacks, and so we also have a fundamental reluctance to go in and set limits for private companies and start to forcibly split them up. We think that there is something fundamental about this, and we do not want to be part of it as a bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130608	Thank you, Minister. There are brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130613	Thank you for an in-depth answer. It is true that the banks, including the SIFIs, are better upholstered than they have been in the past. One might wonder what the effect of these NEP requirements or depreciable liabilities, which are often claims from other banks, will be in a situation where the whole sector, for example. comes in headwind, as we saw up to 2008. That's one of the things I can at least worry about. But this is a slightly different discussion, which is also important. The minister says that in principle one is opposed to sharing as they say. But can the Minister not confirm that in Denmark, in our history, we have a much longer period in which there were actually fire walls between, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130720	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130722	Yes, of course, there has been a development in financial legislation along the way, in some areas also liberalisation, which has allowed banks to do several things. That's right. It does not alter the basic views that I have. We are quite happy that there are some companies in Denmark that are doing well and growing big, and we do not want to fight that. So we want to fight financial crime. We would also like to combat the risks that may arise from the fact that there are some large institutes which take up a great deal. However, we do not want to contribute to this being destructive to the sector and to start something as far-reaching as starting to forcibly split up different banks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130815	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130816	After all, Denmark is probably the country in You can look at the balance between the bank and then bnp, as you can see, for example. do when defining the SIFI requirements. I do not know the very last figures for Danske Bank, but the latest figure I have says that Danske Bank's balance sheet represents approx. One hundred and fifty percent. of the Danish annual bnp. Isn't that something we should be worried about? If you look at the United States, for example, you will see that the largest banks are at a 13-14 per cent. of bnp, ten times less. Isn't it exactly in Denmark that we should have these discussions, which you take in many places in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130905	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130907	I guess that's what it's gonna be like when you're a smaller economy. It takes less to have a large balance in relation to a country's GDP if the country's GDP is small compared to if the country's GDP is extremely large as in the United States. I cannot confirm the actual figures, but the figures, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted mentions is probably right. I shall take that as a basis. It is also good to have the discussion, but I would say that if we get into such a major financial crisis, Denmark is also part of a larger economy where everything can of course fall apart. But overall we feel that we have upholstered as well as we can now and at a sound level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130950	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425130952	Thank you. A little in another corner of the discussion about the SIFI banks: The think tank Kraka figured out what being appointed as SIFI bank actually gave out of gain for the big banks, and came to the conclusion that it could give an annual gain of up to 17 billion. kr. on the basis of a better rating, better interest rates, etc., which at least more people can call indirect state aid. What is the Minister's view of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131033	It is interesting, and I have also noticed that there is indeed a rift about being regarded as SIFI. In fact, this is something the banks would like to do. It is evidently a hallmark of honour, in which one is pleased that one has achieved that size, and it gives, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentions, a greater reputation and credibility as a financial institution, which can make it possible to obtain better ratings and thus lend money at a lower interest rate, and that is interesting. However, it is not my view that we favour the SIFIs in this way. On the contrary, they are subject to a number of stricter requirements which smaller banks are not subject to. So I do not feel that we favour them in this way from the state side, and when, among other things, we do. If we have set up such major NEP requirements, we really, really must go a long way before it could even be said that there will be any form of state aid to the banks some other time. We have thus come very, very far in relation to the last financial crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131142	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131145	After all, Jesper Rangvid has also kept up with each other, that is to say, on the one hand, there are increased capital requirements for the SIFI banks and, on the other hand, there is this benefit, the indirect state aid. With the two relationships held up against each other, he then believes that it is for the economic benefit of the banks. One can say that it is almost a kind of cheek egg to be appointed SIFI bank because you are told by the state: you are too big to go down, we promise you that you will not go down. You get a prize of up to 17 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. So, to me, it is no wonder that many banks now want to be appointed SIFI bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131243	No, but I can also see some clear benefits. In other words, only the signal that you are among the largest banks in Denmark and thus have the size and soundness, so you have come up and become a SIFI, of course, the citizen that you are probably not a bank that goes down immediately, and therefore it is very obvious that there will be some benefits to it. However, as I said, I do not think that we favour the SIFIs in this way. On the contrary, I believe that we have made a regime here in which they are called upon to be very harsh, at least far more demanding than has been historically done, and that is why we feel that we are much better equipped now than we did at the beginning of the last financial crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131328	With that, we thank the Minister. In the rapporteur's line, we start with Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131340	Thank you for that, President. The Minister for Industry has explained the proposal, but, as I have said, the Enhedslisten, with this motion for a resolution, wants to set up a so-called structural commission to assess the possibilities for the division of these SIFI institutions, i.e. those which are systemically important financial institutions. There is no doubt that this is a subject that has been discussed many times, and I myself have been a participant in the debate. When we sat with the discussion about what we had to do after we got into a situation where, among other things, we had to do. had to guarantee 4,200 billion. kr., I think, for the entire Danish financial sector, there were basically two ways to go. One was requirements and regulation, and the other was fragmentation. And there we chose demands and regulation, so that today we are on a much stronger foundation, fortunately, when it comes to the financial sector than we did, that is to say, in 2008-2009, the Social Democrat view is on a much stronger footing. It is a situation that I personally never hope to stand in again. It was really unpleasant and extremely dramatic, not just for us sitting around the negotiating table, but also for Danish society as such. However, the Social Democratic Party believes that we have chosen the right path and, as the Minister for Economic Affairs also well explained, has introduced a whole series of demands which make these big banks subject to considerably stricter regulation and supervision than was the case when things went wrong. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131537	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131541	It was against the backdrop of the last major financial crisis, which was back in the 1930s, that part of the legislation was actually implemented, which then applied for a very long time and which was therefore among other things. This meant, for example, that financial institutions, for example: were not allowed to engage in mortgage business and other types of business, simply so that there would be no reciprocal contagion between these different areas. The same thing was done in the rest of the world, and it actually meant that we had a rather long period up to and including the 1970s and 1980s, when we had very few major financial crises, very few bank failures, also in Denmark. And then you loosened it up all over this neoliberal era and said that now all these ties have to be removed. And it has then formed the background for what we have seen since. Is it not time to have a more thorough discussion on whether it was wise to remove the ties and the fire walls that were between different parts of the sector and that were abolished at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131647	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131648	I always think we should have a discussion and there the questioner is quite right in the discussion that he raises here about the importance that we have as large banks as we have in a relatively small country as Denmark; there is no doubt about that. And that is why the Social Democratic Party and I also hope that the questioner has heard and seen the debate about precisely the control and supervision of the banks, because we do not want to be brought in any way just near the situation we were in 2008 and 2009. So it is not because the Social Democrats do not see that there is and may be worrying behaviour. We believe that with the increasing number of bank packages we have made and with the stronger supervision that we have been created, we are, as I have said, somewhere else today, where at least our assessment of the control and supervision of the financial sector is a very different place than it was in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131749	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131751	Does the rapporteur think that, with the knowledge we have about it today and what has happened since then, it was wise to remove the firewalls between bank and mortgage, in other words to allow mortgage associations, which were democratic associations at the time, to convert into public limited companies and to allow banks to form and take over mortgage banks, or would it have been wise to preserve the division that had existed over the past 70-80 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131825	If what the questioner is asking is whether the Social Democratic Party has any idea that we can roll it back, I would say that the Social Democratic Party does not. In other words, we believe that the way forward is, of course, to follow closely, to have a look at the regulation of legislation in this area and, as has been the case in the debates we have had in the area of money laundering, it is still the view of the Social Democrats that there are still areas that we can see in the light of that there is no doubt about. And the main consideration is what I have put forward here a few times: we need to ensure that we have an efficient and well-functioning financial sector, because we benefit from this as a society, but vice versa we should not have a financial sector that, as one sensed, when things went wrong, almost challenged the last decimal point all the time in order to make the last profit, and then it was that it went wrong. We should not be in this situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131919	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425131929	Thank you. The proposal put forward by Enhedslisten that a regulation should be made which requires the division of systemically important financial institutions cannot be supported by the Danish People's Party. We have nothing against the fact that in Denmark there are so-called SIFIs, systemically important financial institutions. In fact, we believe that Denmark as a society and nation has the advantage of having larger financial institutions, financial institutions which are based and rooted in Denmark as well. We do not see it as a threat that they also grow up and that they are capable of making money. We actually think this is in favour of Danish interests, also for those who are customers in the stores, because we can see, if we follow the development, that the total price that customers pay in terms of interest and fees in Denmark is quite low and then the button was pressed, I can see. But that is where it is, and it is so that it is not to the disadvantage of Danes, Danish consumers and Danish companies that there is cheap funding in Denmark. If you look at the financial crisis, Denmark has actually been a financial helmet all the way through. It has been a place where there has been a great deal of investor confidence, and it has been a place where foreign capital has also moved to. Denmark has actually benefited from this, not least through almost the entire decade when we experienced recession and financial crisis and lots of companies that faced very large, turbulent challenges. That is the way we see it. However, this does not mean that we are blind or deaf to the fact that there is also unhealthy competition in some places, or that consumers are unduly disadvantaged in many respects. In fact, we recognise that. I would therefore like to say that what we would be able to support in an agreement to set up commissions, as the Enhedslisten proposes, should be a commission that went in and looked at what we can do to ensure better separation of the various sectors within financial institutions. I mean, does a bank have to be just a bank, or does it have to be mortgage? Should it be insurance brokering, should it be pension products, or should it be real estate and everything else? There have been a number of parties, including the Danish People's Party, who have repeatedly raised this issue and said that we want to help look at how to divide up the markets more. This does not mean that we can support, for example, that Danske Bank should be legally forced to share its business with two banks or three banks or more for that matter. It's not the same thing. But in the discussion that products, services and services are mixed together into a large financial supermarket, we at least share the concern that I also know Enhedslisten has that customers do not experience it as different products. When you enter the store, they would very much like to have someone as a whole customer, or at least to put more of your commitments there, not only to borrow money, but also to invest your pension funds, for example. And these are very different parts. It is, of course, the case today in the legislation that one trade must not be made subject to the other. However, we can see that this discussion is also challenged in practice in many places where it can be cleverly and skilfully avoided. So we cannot support the proposal here, but we would like to join with Enhedslisten in looking at a commission that can help clarify a little where we can intervene with a better division of the various industries so that people do not find that they are unnecessarily hung up on having to join several different products in order to be able to enter as a customer in a given financial company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132348	Thank you. Mr. Pelle Dragsted would like to ask about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132351	Thank you also for an interesting announcement at the end, which in general is very well in line with the history of the Danish People's Party and the previous party, the parent party or the Progress Party, because it was in fact one of the things I was told the other day, Kirsten Jacobsen, who, together with my sideman here, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, were some of the few who at that time fought against the Realkredit Society, i.e. Realkredit Denmark, being transformed into a limited liability company and incorporated into the Danske Bank Group. So in this sense, the rapporteur is well in line with other politicians from their own political background, or whatever you might call it. But I find it a little difficult to see if you are not prepared to demand, if I may say so, that, for example, we do not have the right to do so. Danske Bank must separate or sell off their mortgage, how to implement that division. We know, of course, from the United States in particular, where there is a slightly tougher trust law, that companies that have become too dominant are being forced to divide up their activities to some extent. I guess that's what it takes to get some firewalls back in, huh?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132459	I do not have a list of how to organise the things that need to be changed. But I'm just saying that we don't get a better financial bank out of forcing a commercial bank like Danske Bank to split the bank into several small or smaller banks, which would still be large separately. We do not see this in the Danish People's Party. However, this is not the same as the fact that we cannot look at the ownership structure of different financial institutions. And that is also what I was trying to outline in my rapporteur's speech, so that it is not in anyone's favour to find it difficult to separate things when you, as a consumer, get into that situation when you have to apply for a loan and so on. and should be judged that then you are told that they should also look at your pension funds before they start looking at your mortgage etc. We would very much like to take part in looking at in a commission how to get these things separated. It is not the same as going back to saying that companies must not offer different products, but there must be a clear and unambiguous difference between these different products.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132612	Sir. Pelle Dragsted. No. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132615	I'm also curious about what it is, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby is actually suggesting, for that sounds like an opening to some of these issues at least. Could it be to look at a possible separation of mortgages and to see the banks' other activities, where it is completely mixed together today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132649	It would be quite obvious to look at the separation of banking and ordinary mortgage business, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that we should also look at when you have mediation situations and when you have ownership in real estate intermediation and when you have ownership in various companies that sell pension products etc. It is quite natural that the mortgage component should also be included as part of that study and that such a commission should look at. We would very much like to be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132717	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And so it is actually now the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who almost quickly comes on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425132731	Thank you. The content of the proposal has been explained, namely that Enhedslisten wants a structural commission to be set up to assess the possibility of splitting systemically important financial institutions. And I do not surprise anyone by saying that we do not support this on the part of the Left, and there are many reasons for this. Let me start by saying that there is a reason why we have established the concept of SIFIs. Because I kind of share the description that Mr. Morten Bødskov came along because it was an unsustainable situation that Denmark was brought into during the financial crisis, where the Folketing had to take initiatives to ensure that the financial sector could survive. This is not a situation we have to face again, and that is why we have taken numerous initiatives both in the Folketing and at European level to ensure that the financial sector is much better equipped and upholstered, a new financial crisis had to come up again. Because we do not want there to be uncertainty about the financial sector. There must be a high level of confidence, because we need this as citizens and as consumers. Businesses need this, investors need it, they need it abroad, so there is confidence that we have a robust and efficient financial sector in Denmark. I believe that we carried out six bank packages from 2008 to 2013, and the sixth banking package dealt with precisely that around the SIFIs, which, of course, ensures stricter requirements for large Danish financial and mortgage institutions with tightened liquidity and capital requirements, i.e. fundamentally better upholstery. If you just have to take a concrete approach to the resolution that you have to divide up the financial sector, you can look up the report by the Rangvid Committee and see what they are writing about whether there should be a split of the SIFIs and the report says: "It would not have changed the course of the financial crisis in Denmark if large financial institutions, including SIFIs, had split up into banks, mortgage and insurance, or a split of the financial institution's part into retail and investment parts, which, among other things, had occurred. recommended by the so-called Liikanen report. In this context, it should be noted that the investment part constitutes a relatively small part of the total activity of Danish financial institutions. So this is not an issue that has not been assessed by the expert body, and that is why it is perhaps also the wrong place to go to say: if you had made a division, the world would be a better place. Basically, I don't believe that. But the problem has been that we have simply not ensured that the financial sector has been upholstered enough to be able to counter a major shock to the economy. And that is also why we are now doing stress tests on financial companies to see if even in extreme situations someone would be at risk. And if that is the case, the requirements for upholstery will be tightened up. So, for many reasons, the Left cannot support the resolution. And I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which does not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133114	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133118	Thank you. Around the Rangvid Committee it is perhaps worth mentioning that a minority of two economic professors had the opposite view, namely that it would be a good idea to get a divorce, for example. Danske Bank's mortgage business from. And especially the mortgage thing, I think it might be worth a little attention as a Leftman. The former Minister of the Left, Peter Christensen, wrote a speech six months ago in Jyllands-Posten, appealing to us politicians as the last bulwark in relation to the Danish mortgage model, because the merger with the banks threatens to water down what is the special mortgage model. That's what we see. When you go to a website and have to take a mortgage, the bank usually starts to present five or six banking products and does not make it clear that they are banking products and not mortgage products. So banks may have an interest in transferring customers from the mortgage to other forms of borrowing. Does the rapporteur, Mr Peter Christensen, share his concern as to what it means for the mortgage model that mortgage loans and financial institutions have been merged?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133235	I share the enthusiasm for the Danish mortgage model, which guarantees Danish property owners some of the cheapest housing funding globally. Now you have to be a little careful about what you say on the platform, in relation to Detector, but I dare say that calmly. For this ensures the Danish mortgage system, where there is a high degree of transparency and clarity, and it is a system that has worked and been robust for several hundred years. So I certainly share the enthusiasm for the mortgage system. We have also taken a wide range of joint initiatives in the Folketing, especially when new demands have been made from Basel, which has been implemented in EU legislation. And not many other European countries have a mortgage system similar to the Danish one, and that is why we have jointly raised the matter with the European Commission. We have had parliamentarians in the European Parliament from virtually all Danish parties, who have also been very, very active in this matter. So, yes, I care a lot about the Danish mortgage system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133341	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133343	I also fully agree that these things are important. However, the greatest threat to the Danish mortgage system may not come from the EU, but from the developments we have seen. And that's it, sir. Peter Christensen warns against in this post called "Now the golden calf must be slaughtered." We have the inclusion of mortgage banks in the banks and, incidentally, the merger of their two lobby organisations. We no longer have the mortgage council, because it has been introduced into Finance Denmark. There is simply no longer anyone other than perhaps us who can defend the unique Danish mortgage system and the unique Danish mortgage lending. I hope that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will also help in the coming years to be vigilant about what is special, not only towards the European Union, but also towards an industry which could perhaps have an economic interest in changing the nature of the Danish mortgage model.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133437	In a joint effort and struggle to maintain a unique mortgage system, Mr. Pelle Dragsted considers me a permanent ally. There may be an alliance where there will then be a completely different starting point, because I do not think that, because we have something that is fantastic, we should prevent innovation and competition from taking place with other products. I think it is natural that the market should develop as well. However, this does not mean that my preference for mortgage credit is diminished, but, on the other hand, there must also be opportunities for innovation, and consumers must of course have a free and informed choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133518	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133526	Thank you. I and the Liberal Alliance believe that so many measures have been taken and so much regulation made by the SIFIs that there is no need for any further. Furthermore, I do not think that the public sector should start to split up private companies. It almost has the character of expropriation. I would also point out that Danish banks are large because they have done well, and they should not be penalised for that. As far as money laundering is concerned, we have all clearly agreed that the industry has absolutely not done well enough, and that is exactly what the industry has taken care of itself now. And from in here, we have taken major initiatives to minimise the risk of money laundering in the future by making much more regulation. Large banks are important for both the public banking business and for large private companies, and if Danish banks are to be able to manage in an international market, then they are also needed to be large. Moreover, it is often an advantage for customers that bank loans and credit loans can be made under the same roof. It is also noteworthy in this context that, according to the Ministry of Finance, the loss risk of Danish SIFI's loans is significantly lower than the risk of loans from small and medium-sized institutions. And according to the Rangvid Committee, it would not have changed the course of the financial crisis in Denmark if there had been a fragmentation of the large financial institutions, including the SIFIs. It is probably not surprising that the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133716	With that we thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no brief comments. The next is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, and that is for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133729	That's it, thank you. Our rapporteur in this area, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, unfortunately could not be here today, and I am therefore pleased to have to take this first reading of the Enhedslisten's proposal to set up a structural commission to assess the possibilities for the division of systemically important financial institutions. On the whole, in the alternative, we are very positive about the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten. In recent years, we have seen alarming uncertainty throughout the banking sector, and this is something that we politicians need to take seriously and have to act on. The banking sector has become too large and too powerful, and unfortunately the social responsibility that comes with that position has not been similarly strengthened. Unfortunately, ordinary people have suffered. There is no point in citizens not having confidence and confidence in banks looking after their money. This is a problem for companies and for the economy as a whole, because we are all dependent on the functioning of the banking sector. It's in everyone's interest. In the alternative, we want to divide the financial and banking sectors into two sectors in order to restore confidence in the system and to provide security for the individual. That is why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal to set up a structural committee to examine the possibility of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133906	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425133918	Thank you very much, President. On the radical side, we cannot support this resolution. This is because, as many other rapporteurs have said, we believe that the regulation that has been put into the world since the financial crisis and until now, both when it comes to financial stability and when it comes to money laundering and other financial crime, creates quite a tight suit for the banks that we have. This is also due to the fact that we can see the advantages of having large Danish banks, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned. We have large companies in Denmark operating abroad, which need to have a large bank that they can use, and the alternative, namely going to other foreign banks, I cannot immediately see any benefit to the intentions of Enhedslisten with the proposal or anything else. Having said all that, we in the Radical Left, as I also said in the discussion of the previous resolution, attach enormous importance to the fact that there is a very varied range of banks, savings banks, cooperative funds and so on. in Denmark because it gives all consumers an opportunity to choose the profile of the financial institution that they think suits them. It is actually amazingly easy to change a financial institution if that is what you want. So with the regulation we have made and with the opportunities that are here, we do not immediately see a great need for the state to disband companies in order to reduce them. Nor do I see any evidence that large banks are or should have a tendency to be more or less criminals, if I may say so, than small institutions should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134111	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134114	The latter is perhaps a rather reckless statement on the occasion of the year. The extent of crime in large banks is generally greater than the level of crime in smaller banks, for the sole reason that the volume of transactions is greater. At least that's what we've seen with both Danske Bank and Nordea. Although things have also happened at Roskilde Bank and others, it is not something that approaches the extent of the criminal activities we have seen in the big banks. One of the problems that my colleague Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also raises is that the SIFI stamp actually also places unfair competition on smaller banks, including the cooperative and savings banks, because the SIFI stamp simply lowers the cost of financing, and that also means that you can offer your products cheaper, in other words, in addition to some of the options available to you, for example. to a greater extent even risk-weighted assets and thus reduce the level of its own funds. You could say that you had a choice at the time. It was recognised that there are some banks here that are systemically important and cannot go down, but then instead of saying that we do not want to have that, they chose to make special demands and thus give them an implicit state guarantee in the back. Does the rapporteur still think that this is the right solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134245	Sir. Pelle Dragsted is right that it is clear that if you are in a very large bank and commit a certain form of crime, the amount will be greater there than if you commit the same crime in a smaller bank. But my point is that if you, for example... Looking at Roskilde Bank, it was unfortunately not in order to legitimise in any way the crimes committed in many types of banks. In other words, when we think it is appropriate to have banks of that size, it is because there are companies and institutions that need that size and where we can say: where do we send our companies if they do not have those kinds of banks? The competition element I do not quite buy, but it is because it is not so long ago that I changed the banking institution myself, and there I looked at these fees, and many of the very best offers were in the small institutions, and I myself ended up in a cooperative fund which is quite cheap and good to be in as a regular consumer, and therefore I would say that the fact that you have the varied supply, I think, also provides room for special products. Then I know that the Enhedslisten will say that there is no profit motive in a cooperative fund, so there is at least some money saved, in relation to what you can offer customers etc., etc. That's a way to argue back and forth. So, yes, I think that with the regulation that has come now, but which was not here in 2008, we have come much further to ensure that we do not need to sweep up after any Danish money institutions at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134413	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134415	If you now agree to this premise that we need large banks and that was one of the things that such a commission could look at, because it is such a thing that you are told that the big companies should have it, after all, it is extreme that Denmark has a bank that is as big as Danske Bank. It may also have something to do with who the main shareholders of that bank are and who may always have had a little special relationship with the state, etc., that one has allowed a bank to grow up so big. One might wonder whether the competition authorities should not have prevented Danske Bank from getting the extent they currently have, and also the other large banks, i.e. whether the mergers that took place during the 1990s and 00s should have been allowed. Does the rapporteur think that we need a bank with a balance sheet of around 150 per cent. of bnp, or perhaps we could manage with one where it amounted to 20 per cent. Of bnp?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134514	It is true that Danske Bank is a very large bank at home, but at European level we have a number of banks of that size and also a part that is considerably larger. As far as I know, Danske Bank operates primarily and quite purposefully in the Nordic markets, but of course has branches in Germany and New York, but the goal is primarily Nordic customers and the Nordic market with the specific characteristics of running banking there, namely our tax system and our different ways of dealing with societal challenges. After all, I share Enhedslisten's basic view that banks have a social responsibility that they must take seriously and that, if they do not take it seriously, they must be regulated to take seriously. So far, so good. For me, it is just not a factor in itself, how big you are, in terms of whether you are exercising that social responsibility. We can all see that Danske Bank has failed in connection with the money laundering scandal and is also important in relation to Financial Stability, but whether it could have been avoided by the fact that the bank had been half the size is what I question. I simply do not believe that in itself poses either a greater or a lesser risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134628	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134630	But until 1989 we had what is called a fire wall between mortgage and the rest of the banking system. After all, we had a mortgage system that worked well for two hundred years and that many abroad are interested in. Maybe they don't quite understand it. At any rate, I remember that Mrs Margrethe Vestager had to travel around Europe to try to explain what our mortgage system was. We can put aside the other discussions and only relate to the fact that we have a mortgage system that has worked well for two hundred years. It is now, let me say, relatively milked in terms of high rates of contributions, which will then be transferred to the banks, and it will be passed on as dividends and so on. So there's that relationship alone. Mr. Martin Lidegaard did not see that there is a point in saying that it was a mistake to confuse the two things? Because we need to keep our mortgage safe and cheap. It is still cheap, but if you look at the rates of contributions, you see that it has become considerably more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134741	This is a slightly different issue, but quite relevant. Let us now remember that the largest mortgage institution in Denmark, Nykredit, is not owned by a bank, but has now sold part of it to a pension company. But it's not owned by a bank, and it's a mortgage company. Indeed, it is they and Total Credit, which they have bought, that have received the greatest criticism of increased contributions rates. So it is unlikely that such a linear link can be made between the ownership of a mortgage institution and their high contribution rates. Having said that, it does not change the fact that I too am still frustrated by the high rates of contributions. I also believe that we should perhaps do even more to increase competition and make it easier for ordinary citizens to change if they so wish, without having to pay very high costs. I'm just not quite sure that it has anything to do with size, let alone ownership, that is, the underlying ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134831	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134833	However, there has been a shareholder demand, which is also being transferred to the mortgage area, where the shareholders for several years have expected returns of 10-12 per cent. It has become, so to speak, the new normal. That is why the mortgage system, which used to have a fairly resting principle in itself, must now also exist for the sake of profit. That's really just what I'm asking. I think that the other things can easily be discussed, but even when one of the world's largest financial centres, such as the City of London in England, talks about ringfencing, talking about protecting some parts of the financial market where ordinary people's savings are, it also means that we should have that discussion in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425134930	I therefore agree that there are advantages and disadvantages to the fact that the different types of business were mixed together. That is why I also attach a great deal of importance to the fact that we have a fully-fledged mortgage institution, which is, after all, the leader, also in terms of pricing in the market, and so we can avoid the whole thing lifting up. But I also have quite a lot of faith that the ordinary competition that is out there can keep prices at bay. And there are also some advantages to offering new products that combine bank and mortgage loans. As I said, I think it is a very relevant issue to discuss, and we have done so, and we will certainly do so again in the financial conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135021	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. In fact, it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen who, as a representative of the Socialist People's Party, is on her way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135037	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising this discussion today by making this proposal to set up a structural commission to assess the possibilities for splitting systemically important financial institutions. In short, what are some financial supermarkets we have today and must they be split up and in what way? In fact, this is a proposal that we also had in the SF, where a year ago we came up with a proposal about splitting up these financial supermarkets, and it is completely in line with the Enhedslisten's proposal, so I might as well start by saying that we will also support this resolution. Then why? Yes, I believe I heard the Liberal Alliance rapporteur say that this is approaching expropriation. I think that is a big misunderstanding about what we are talking about. Because there is actually a long and handsome liberal legacy, especially in the United States, about anti-trust, about looking at how to make a market work well, especially if there are market-dominant players if there are competition problems. It extends from Woodrow Wilson to Franklin D. Roosevelt, who said so much that we cannot have any players who become so big that they are a nuisance to the market; they outcompete others, and that is bad for the products, and in the end it is also a threat to democracy. That is why Standard Oil, one of the largest oil companies, was split up, it was not taken over, it was not expropriated, but it was divided into different parts that could then compete against each other. That was also why AT&T, the American telephone company, was split up when Graham Bell, who invented the phone, was suddenly sitting on the entire telephone market. Still, it seemed to be the rough side. So it was liberals who said: when we see clear market failures, for the sake of consumers, we will have to go in and correct them in order to have a better functioning market. We have got financial supermarkets in Denmark to such an extent that I really think it is necessary to call a shotgun, and I am glad that Enhedslisten is also fighting this issue, because it is a problem when we have huge large banks, which are also sitting on mortgages and which are also sitting on insurance, pensions, etc., and now a new door has even been opened for new ones, what should I say, more or less creative tools with credit transfers and other things. And in this way, it is necessary to look at this whole area. As I mentioned before, one can almost call the advantages of an SIFI bank, one of the very large banks, a cheek egg. Firstly, they are told that they are too big to fail, it is a state guarantee that they cannot go down. It leads to what is called moral hazard, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned that it is a recognised concept, since if there are no clear consequences that match the actions you take, it could potentially lead to deeply irresponsible banking. And that's why it's dangerous to have banks that are too big to fail. Margrethe Vestager and many others have also said that we should not have it. The second part of the cheek egg is, of course, that we get indirect state aid for the largest banks with a value of up to 17 billion. kr. Every year it is Kraka who has done the analysis because when you get the SIFI stamp, you also get cheaper interest rates on the market because you get a better rating, and it is therefore money that burdens the state budget, so to speak, or the state balance. So it is an indirect state aid that has a value of up to 17 billion. kr. The third thing about the SIFIs is that you have to choose these internal models, the so-called IRB models, in relation to the standard models. It may sound very technical, but it means that we really do not know if there are so much tougher capital requirements for SIFIs than there are for other banks, because you calculate it completely differently. As some banks went from being ordinary banks to getting the SIFI stamp, it could actually be seen that the difference was 9 percentage points. Well, it's a pretty significant difference from the whole discussion that you say: Well, there are tough demands, there are significantly tougher capital requirements, and then you have to look at that in the big picture. Unfortunately, my speaking time has run out, but I just want to say that I think this is really, really important and that, of course, the SF supports the proposal, which is all about clarifying this problem and coming up with a model. I can't believe there's no more support for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135554	The time will be extended a little, because there is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135558	Thank you. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that we should do this because there are market failures and compares with some situations from the United States. But does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen believe that there are market failures in the Danish banking market and that there are competition problems? I think there are about 96 banks in Denmark. Is that a problem? Isn't that enough competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135628	Mrs May-Britt Kattrup asks me whether I think there are market failures. Yeah, and I'm not the one who says that. It is the Danish Competition and Consumer Authority which says in their report for 2017 that there is a significant and serious problem with competition in the mortgage market. It is a very, very harsh criticism that they very rarely make. They are producing a report in which they say that we have serious competition problems in the mortgage market. They even say that it is not only in the mortgage credit market, but also in the banks, because the competition that is lacking in the mortgage credit market has, after all, been fixed on the large banks that form part of financial supermarkets with mortgage credit institutions. So there's market failure? Yes, there is. Mrs May-Britt Kattrup does not have to take my word for that. She can take the Competition and Consumer Authority report from 2017, which clearly and unequivocally says that there is a very big problem with the competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135722	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135725	That's fair enough. I do not know the report, but what does the report say, and what does Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen think it takes on the market? When there are about 96 different banks on the market, what is needed to create enough competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135742	We have taken some steps together with both the current and the former Minister of Industry, and I would also like to sign for that. But we didn't go as far as everyone said you could go. In fact, some outstanding issues which could be addressed are still outstanding among the proposals made by the government-appointed group of experts. Not all the proposals were taken up there. You could go that way. You don't have to go that far. Mrs May-Britt Kattrup asks me what we can do. I think that an important step would be to say that mortgage and other banking operations must be separated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135818	With that we thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. In fact, we now have to call the rapporteur the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425135844	Thank you, and also many thanks for a good and exciting debate. It is after all the second half of this debate today, and where the first half was about the establishment of a public banking offer, it is after all about whether there is a need in Denmark to share the largest Danish financial supermarkets. That is, of course, the problem that has been described in foreign terms as too big to fail, that is. Too big to fail, that is, that we have the growth of some financial institutions that have become so large and so extensive that we cannot actually let them go down, and what we are proposing with this motion for a resolution is to set up a commission to discuss and look at the advantages and disadvantages of dividing the largest Danish financial houses into smaller units. We are particularly exposed in Denmark because on a European scale we have the relatively largest bank. So we are most exposed to a single bank, Danske Bank, which has a range of 150 per cent. of the Danish bnp. For example, you compare. with American banks and looking at the largest ones there, the largest of them are about 13-14 per cent. In other words, the extent of the Danish banks in relation to our economy is a factor of 10 compared to the Americans. This means, of course, that we are extremely exposed to what is happening in Danske Bank. This was also what we saw with the financial crisis, i.e. the state had to in different ways both with guarantees, with loans and also with a number of other manoeuvres, which have been described to support Danske Bank because the bank was close to bankruptcy. On the other hand, the process also showed that the bank could very much set its own premises. We all know about the process around how this so-called upside solution, where the state was supposed to have co-owned, was transformed into a loan agreement during one night, because Danske Bank's director and Nordea's directors had the Prime Minister on a nightly visit and said that this is how the piano played. That is the problem when you get banks that are so big that they have so much power that even the Prime Minister of the country must actually bend his neck to their orders, and that is one of the consequences of these very, very large banks. There is also what has been discussed with this so-called moral hazard, i.e. this propensity that when you know that you are rescued by father state or mother state I don't know what it is that the Liberal Alliance usually calls it that you are acting at greater risk. It is very natural, and it is not something that the left has come up with, but it is a concept that is included in most economic textbooks. At the same time, the merger of various parts of the financial sector, as we have seen, has also increased the risk of a crisis in one part of the financial sector, for example. In the financial sector, for example, it can be contaminated by e.g.: the mortgage sector or the pension sector or other parts which have been incorporated into these major financial supermarkets. Finally, as my colleague Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned earlier, we have seen a huge concentration of ownership, which also has a bearing on competition. If we look at the mortgage sector, the three largest mortgage banks are 80%. of the market. It is inconceivable that this would happen, for example, in the United Kingdom. The United States, which has more powerful anti-trust legislation than we have here, and moreover has such legislation that prevents them from reaching that level. Magnus Barsøe, a debate editor at Finans.dk, wrote in a very fine column: Would we accept if there were only three hairdressers in Denmark? And what do we think it would mean for the price of a haircut if we had three hairdressers to choose from? In fact, that is what is really the situation in our mortgage. Now Nykredit, as far as I can see, has also taken over DLR Credit, so the concentration has probably increased from 80%. For maybe 85 or 90 percent, without putting your head on the block. Because of this, because of the problems with this moral hazard, with the threat to competition and the problem of allowing banks to become so big, we have also historically had limitations on the size of banks. After the crisis of the 1930s, people were put in a lot of trouble all over the world. In the United States we know the famous Glass-Steagall legislation, but here in Denmark we had very clear fire walls between, for example. banks and mortgage banks. You just couldn't run a mortgage if you were a financial institution. This also meant that we had a very long period of quite great stability in the financial sector from the 1930s until the 1980s, and perhaps it was the absence of crises that gave rise to a period, the so-called neoliberal era, in which the ties were loosened in earnest and among other things. removed the firewalls between mortgages and banks, which led to the transformation of the old Danish mortgage associations, which we have enjoyed very much, into public limited companies and incorporated into the large financial supermarkets, most of them at least. Perhaps, after the financial crisis that struck us a few years ago, we could have expected a similar willingness to intervene and to ensure that the banks were split up again, but that has not happened, at least not in Denmark. In the European Union there was a commission led by the Finnish National Bank Director Erkki Liikanen, who in fact, back in 2010, I think, proposed that we should look at dividing up the largest European banks. In Britain, it was taken up and implemented what is called ring-fencing, where the customer-oriented part of the banks is fenced, so that the more speculative part of the banks can be dropped without harming ordinary people, and in the United States, for example, we have. a limitation on the proportion of deposits that individual banks may have. In Denmark we did almost the opposite. There we went in and said that we have some banks that we are giving this SIFI stamp, that is, which are important institutions that we cannot let fall, and that is to say that we recognised that we have banks that are too big to fail or are too big to fail, and we live with that, and then we make some harder demands on them. The problem is, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned, that it has given these banks some competitive advantages. In fact, you reward them for being so big. They can find themselves easier because they have this SIFI stamp. It is clear that it lowers the risk when you know that the state comes and rescues you so that they can borrow money cheaper than other banks. This also means, of course, that they will be better placed to compete against smaller banks. So there are a lot of good reasons to look at this. There have been some objections during the debate. There has been talk that it would be an expression of expropriation. I do not understand that, too. Having anti-cartel legislation, ensuring that there is real competition and that there is no total market dominance for individual companies is an integral part of the regulation of any capitalist society. The question is, of course, where and when you do it, but it has nothing to do with expropriation. On the contrary, it actually has something to do with protecting smaller companies from unfair competition from large ones. In this sense, it is also a little interesting that one of the chief economists in CEPOS, Otto Brøns-Petersen, wrote a column not so long ago in which he actually pleaded that it might well be that one should start to look at whether it is wise that one has banks that are so large, because it requires such extensive regulation when we have such large banks, and that it might be wiser to go the opposite way and make banks smaller, but in return let them take care of themselves. It is of course a little interesting, according to the speech of the Liberal Alliance rapporteur up here, that there are some small cracks in the ranks of liberals when it comes to this issue. But with those words, I can hear that it will not be today that we are setting up this working group, and that is a little too bad, because it was certainly a way of getting one more, what can be said, in-depth clarification of the issues that we are discussing today. Nevertheless, I would, of course, like to thank you for the debate and for the fact that, in these years, we in Denmark have a serious debate about our financial sector and how we make it work for the benefit of the general public. We do not agree on it all, but I think it is a good thing that we have an enlightened and thorough debate on those issues, and I also think that I would like it to be, this is my last chance to say so, as I am on my way out, and I would like to congratulate our Minister for Business for having taken an active part in this debate during the period he has been Minister. I think that's been really good. Compared to what we have seen in the past from other ministers, without mentioning names, I think it has been positive, and I think it has helped to lift the debate in this area on the financial sector, because it is something that concerns many Danes. It may be complicated, but it affects all of our lives. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425140826	With that, we thank Mr. Pelle Dragsted. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425140845	Now I have the problem that I can't see sir. Andreas Steenberg in the Chamber and we cannot start the debate unless the proposer is present. I've been informed he should be on his way. It is then a question of where it is from. So, normal practice is that we give two minutes, and if he is not here then the matter will be removed from the agenda. So, two minutes break. I'm not calling the meeting, we're keeping it open, so we can start right away so there won't be anything about people starting to leave the room. Even the minister will be ready. Now I see Andreas Steenberg in the hall. He was so free from the accusation that he wasn't here, but now we can start with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141010	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Radical Left is proposing that by the end of 2019 the government put forward legislative proposals to abolish the requirement for financial security in cases of spouse reunification. The Radical Left states that recovery is rarely carried out in the security and that the claim is superfluous and affects Danes who want marriage. It may not come as a great surprise when I say that the government cannot support this resolution. It is the government's view that it is both appropriate and reasonable for us to make such a demand. And unlike the Radical Left, the government does not think that the requirement for security is superfluous. The requirement for financial security implies that resident foreigners and Danes who wish to have a spouse in this country should normally provide an economic security of DKK 100,000. for a period of 10 years. Precisely because the government believes that it is important to ensure that the family partner does not place the public burden on it, the amount was raised from DKK 50,000 in the summer of 2018. to the present 100,000. The draft law was adopted by a broad majority here in Parliament. This appropriation is intended to cover any public expenditure on assistance under the Act on Active Social Policy or the Integration Act which may subsequently be paid to the foreigner applying for spouse reunification. If such assistance is provided, the municipality must reclaim the amount of the security paid and the requirement for financial security thus helps to create an incentive for the couple to become self-supporting and thus become an active part of the society to which they have now come. In addition, the scheme provides for a reduction in the amount of the security provided that the couple passes Danish examinations. It must be said that this motivates the spouse to learn Danish precisely, and the requirement ensures that the municipalities can be reimbursed for support paid to foreigners who are brought together in this country. The Radical Left believes that the requirement for security is superfluous because the ongoing dependency requirement is a sufficient incentive for spouses not to apply for support. I have to say, I totally disagree with that. The requirement for a financial security and the ongoing credit claim complement each other. The maintenance requirement means that the residence permit for the spouse is subject to the condition that none of the spouses receive assistance under the Act on Active Social Policy or the Integration Act, and if one or both of the spouses or both receive such public assistance, the residence permit shall be taken into account as a starting point. However, the maintenance requirement does not allow the municipalities to have recourse to compulsory social assistance. The security, on the other hand, does. The Radical Left has questioned the municipalities' need for access to involvement, as the possibility of drawing on the security has been used in very few cases, but, as I said, it is important for the government that such an opportunity exists for the municipalities. This applies regardless of the extent of the recovery of the municipalities during a given period. The possibility of drawing on the guarantee has precisely the preventive effect that we want, and it could be that there would be more family members who would apply for support if there were no means of collecting the money. This is particularly true in a situation where the couple have been divorced, since the guarantee is still in force. The Government therefore considers that there is good reason to require financial security and, in the Government's view, it is only fair to demand that, as a spouse, you should be self-supporting in this country. We therefore only derogate from the requirement if there are very specific reasons. This applies regardless of whether the resident is a Dane or a foreigner. It is therefore the Government's view that it is both appropriate and in no way superfluous for us to demand financial security in marriage proceedings. And with that one can surely hear where it is going: the government does not support this resolution, but I do not think it comes as a surprise either for the Radical Left or others.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141528	Thank you, Minister. Now Mr. Andreas Steenberg to stress that he is in the Chamber and that is why he is given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141535	Excuse the President and Minister for having to wait one minute or two. I had a professional intern who I had to follow up in the gallery. It is not surprising that we do not, of course, agree with what the Minister has put forward here. What I think is the jumping point, which I would ask the Minister to take a stand on, is that these guarantees are not being used to a great extent, because if a Danish-international couple goes down and ask for money or receive money from the municipality, they risk the foreign spouse being expelled. That is why we have already made very tough demands on these couples. That is why I do not think there is any reason why they should also make $100,000. as a guarantee before they have even brought their spouse here. After all, the challenge to which I agree with the government has actually been solved, namely that a spouse who comes here must of course support himself. There's the set of rules in place. So why can't you see in the government that it's unnecessary to also charge this $100,000? By people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141644	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141647	Well, as I already mentioned in my speech, we actually believe that there is a preventive effect in this, and that is why we think it is absolutely crucial that the DKK 100,000. is in an account, and then the municipality can take the money from there if you have somehow come to support them. And then I have to say that I think it is only fair that we should be deported if we do not comply with the rules. You knew the rules when you got here. We have to stick to that, otherwise it would completely undermine the rules, and we would see a massive share of family reunification here in Denmark, which neither supports itself nor is going to take part in Danish society. This cannot be desirable for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141733	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141737	The last point I would like to stress is that I fully agree with. It is very sensible to make demands on the foreign spouse if you are allowed to stay here. I think that's perfectly natural. Has this been investigated by the government with its preventive effect? Do you know it's this $100,000 that has the preventive effect? In fact, I believe that it is the risk of expulsion, as the Minister mentioned at the end, which has the preventive effect. Therefore, there is no isolated effect of this requirement, and therefore one could do away with it and thus make it easier for a Danish citizen to have his or her family in his or her homeland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141814	I know no one's been asked about it in any of these cases. Having said that, however, there is no doubt that we in the government want a very strict immigration policy, even when it comes to family reunification that comes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141825	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line. Social democracy is at the forefront, and that's Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, heading up to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425141848	Is there an issue that has led to debate and has had an impact in Danish immigration policy since the adoption of the Aliens Act in 1983, it must be the rules for family reunification, spouse reunification: according to what rules should citizens in Denmark be able to obtain foreign family members for Denmark? A few questions in Danish politics have probably created as much discussion, controversy and division as this issue. That is why it is really amazing, where, in the last year, an historically broad majority in the Folketing managed to reach an agreement on these very rules. The background to that bill was the most curious and, for me, incomprehensible judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which declared our old 28-year rule in violation of human rights. The judges believed that the rule discriminated. It was against this background that the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party and the governing parties used the judgment as an opportunity to replace the requirement that the couple's overall relationship with Denmark should be greatest, with a number of new demands on the couple's ability to be well integrated into Denmark. It is about the couple's employment, education and language skills. We consider that this new legislation will make it easier for the married couples to understand what they have to fulfil in order to settle in Denmark, while at the same time ensuring our society a better opportunity to integrate the new arrivals in a good way. In addition, the new rules maintain that financial security must be provided so that Danish society does not end up with the bill. It must be fair that Danes who want their foreign spouse to do so should also be able to take on some of the financial costs if, after a few weeks, the newcomer sits down on the municipality and asks for public services. We believe this is a sound principle which has worked quite well across both red and blue governments for at least a few decades. We see no reason to change that and the Social Democrats can therefore reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142043	A brief remark was just made by Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142050	I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party will insist that this amount should be DKK 100 000. Because when our parties were in government together, as far as I remember, it was 50,000 kroner, and it has also been 20,000 kroner in the past. Is it absolutely clear in relation to the socialist optics that the requirement here must be DKK 100,000?? Because that means that the more wealthy you are, the more chances you can get your spouse from the United States, Australia, China, or where it is outside the EU, to Denmark. Will the Social Democratic Party insist that it should be the wallet that decides whether to get your spouse to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142136	To begin with, the amount has fluctuated back and forth between DKK 50,000. and 100,000 kroner. in a couple of laps, and it doesn't seem to have a big impact on how many people are looking for me at least I don't see any connection between it. But I actually think that $50,000. was an excellent amount, and when the new rules were negotiated, it was not at our request that it be raised to DKK 100,000. I think I said the same when we first dealt with the new bill. But now we have reached a political agreement which we think is good and in which, as always, has been given and taken. And we have agreed that the amount will be raised to DKK 100,000. as part of the political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142209	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142213	I find that interesting. The Social Democratic Party is not bound by the political agreement after the elections that will come shortly, so Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democratic Party saw that the parties which support Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party in gaining the power of government could reverse this so that the amount could be reduced to DKK 50,000. Again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142235	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142237	No, not immediately. I think it has enormous value, both for Danish society and for Danes who want foreign spouses to do so, that there is political tranquillity about the rules of marriage. And we would like, together with the parties with which we have made the agreement, to try to see if the rules we have now can actually work for a few years, so that people know what they have to comply with. And I believe that all political parties feel that there are individual elements in political agreements that are more pleasing than others, and this was not our invention, as I said. But we think it has a political value in itself that calm has been created around these rules, so as a starting point we will stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142314	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142318	The Socialist rapporteur used a wording which I overwhelmed and which Mr. Mattias Tesfaye may be able to read again. It was a statement that this was a good tool, if the family couple were to put down at the municipality and ask for money, one must understand. But wasn't it easier just to say that family couples can't get money down at the county?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142349	I think we are going to run into the constitution and other rules immediately. It is, of course, the case that people who cannot support themselves are entitled to support under the Constitution. What we then have a rule about is that you cannot extend your residence permit if you have received integration benefits or cash benefits. But that does not change the fact that I think it must be the case that if you want your foreign spouse to Denmark, you do not start by asking the other citizens of Denmark to support you if the person has arrived here. I think that is actually an excellent principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142424	Thank you. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard a brief comment? It would help if you, like experienced man on Tinge, pressed the button. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142433	I was simply so surprised by the answer that I did not get the pressure. I fully agree that this should not be expected, of course. But from there and then to make a rule that means that it is they who can best afford family reunification, unlike those who can least afford it, is a little strange. What if the claim was 1 million? kr.? Or 2 million. kr.? Or 5 million. kr.? Or 50 million. kr.? Then there would be a great many who would be prevented. That is why I do not understand why the Social Democrats agree to a proposal which simply means that the ordinary people whom the Social Democrats would like to represent are, in fact, those who are hit hardest when it comes to finding another solution that would mean that they are the ones who want to take advantage of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142529	After all, this proposal is not about a guarantee of 1 million. kr. or 2 million kr. or 5 million kr. It is a question of abolishing the security. So what I think we should be dealing with is whether it is reasonable that Danish society has some economic security if people ask for their foreign spouse to come to Denmark. We think that is fair and therefore we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142547	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye. And then it's sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142559	Thank you. In 2015, approx. 11,600 foreigners brought together family members in Denmark, and last year that figure had fallen to approx. 4,600. So it's a drop from 11,600 to 4,600. There are, of course, many different explanations for this, but in the view of the Danish People's Party, the number has to be reduced even further, and that is why we do not believe that we need to go in and relax the rules, as the Radicals are proposing here. The Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal, as we believe it is an unnecessary weakening of foreign policy. We believe that we must maintain the course and develop it, not weaken it. Foreign nationals wishing to stay in Denmark must be required to do so, even if they wish to stay here with a Danish national. They must also be required to claim the Danish national if that is the case, or the immigrant who wants to bring a foreign spouse to Denmark. Some of the demands are also about putting a damper on the overall immigration to Denmark • We do not think that there is any reason to hide in the Danish People's Party, so neither do we. In addition, we believe that these are perfectly reasonable requirements, even in this case, and then there are also Danish citizens. I also think that this is part of the picture that has come here, for example, from a non-Western country or a Muslim country, and that is another argument that it is also relevant to make demands on Danish citizens, again in order to control immigration, in this case by demanding an economic guarantee. In addition, the scheme contributes to the self-supporting of foreigners, and this can also be quite sensible. So with these reasons there are also a few others that I am not mentioning here today... the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142759	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142805	I fully agree with the Danish People's Party in... and I just think it is important to stress that there should be demands on the foreign spouses of Danish citizens. I think that is quite logical and there are many of the demands that we also support. Where the chain jumps off for me, of course, is when Mr. Martin Henriksen says that this is also about making it harder for Danish citizens and making it impossible for some Danish citizens to have their own family in the homeland they are now part of. Why is it that the Danish People's Party cannot separate migrants from refugees and lucky knights from the fact that there are Danish citizens who have found a spouse in Ukraine or China or Australia or where it is now? Why is it not a good Danish cause and a good Danish People's Party brand case that a Danish citizen can live in his country with a spouse from another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425142906	In other words, the times when the Danish People's Party has advocated discrimination, and also the times when the European Court of Human Rights and also the Radical Left people have to make no discrimination. So that is part of the explanatory statement. By the way, I would like to say that not all the way along the way, but a bit along the way, it has all been mixed together in a large pearl, and that is partly because parties like the Radical Left, but also other parties in here, have been too generous in sharing Danish citizenship, that is Danish citizenship, to foreigners who have basically not been integrated. And, of course, once you have done so, it also means that, in order to control immigration, we must also make demands on Danish citizens, among others. also because there are some Danish citizens who have come here from countries which are culturally far away from Danish culture and who, although they have become Danish citizens, are still difficult to integrate into Danish society. That's part of it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143002	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143006	I fully agree with Mr. Martin Henriksen in that the area of foreigners is characterized by the fact that it is all mixed together in a large bulb. But aren't we just gonna make a deal with each other that we're gonna stop doing that? We are talking here about the spouses of Danish citizens, and I am well aware that there is no discrimination between Danish citizens and non-Danish citizens. It is clear that different rules, among other things. It is probably also our constitution that prohibits the distinction between Danish citizens, but you can give Danish citizens a special right to have their spouse in this country. Shouldn't we do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143039	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143042	There it has been the case in the past that a group of Danish citizens have had a special right, and we in the Danish People's Party felt that this made very good sense. It was then abolished, I believe, after a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights and, among other things, by the Court of Human Rights. We are also opposed to this by the Danish People's Party, at the request of some parties in here. But when this has been mixed together in a large pearl, I think that the Radical Left must also take responsibility for it, because it is one of those things. The Radical Left, which has been a banner leader here for many years, and which has also had an influence on changing governments, both bourgeois and social democratic governments, through the history of Denmark, which has helped to give citizenship to a lot of people who have not been Danish at all and who will probably never ever be Danish either. And when that is the case, we also have to take that into account in our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143124	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143138	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we believe that those who come to Denmark should contribute to Danish society and not be parked on passive support. We also believe, therefore, that the requirement for financial security increases the incentive for couples to become self-supporting rather than burdening the public. That was also the reason why we introduced the demand back in 2002 and that is why we helped to raise the amount from 50,000 DKK. $100,000. Last year. Of course, Denmark must be a country to come to, for those who want to contribute to our community, but we must also recognise that if immigration is not controlled and the way it is integrated in Denmark, then it costs the Danish treasury many billions every year. Therefore, the requirement for financial collateral is also a matter of fairness and fairness. If we are to have the Danes' support for the integration challenge, then we must also feel that we are all contributing to the common treasury. After all, the largest redistribution of other people's income through tax is being made to the world's society. I understand that the proposers believe that the requirement for financial security is superfluous because there is already a dependent claim, but unlike the guarantee, the dependent claim does not allow the municipalities to recover the dependent aid paid. It is precisely in this that the requirement for security is justified, and here I am thinking in particular of the preventive effect that the Minister also mentioned. The Left therefore continues to support the demand for financial guarantees and, in this context, cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143333	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143337	Thanks for the speech. As we also write in the proposal, the association called Marriage Without Borders has carried out a study in which it turns out that the municipalities have actually had more expenses in managing these bank guarantees than they withdraw from them. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Mads Fuglede mentioned and the minister mentioned, because if such a Danish-international couple gets money from the municipality, the spouse is very likely simply deported, and therefore no one really goes down and asks for money on the municipality, because it has a very serious consequence for that couple, and it is in that light that we think that one could remove this requirement to make DKK 100,000. in guarantee to the municipality because it simply is not being used. The rules we've made work, and that's why this mostly seems like something that's just harassing these couples. Why does the Left think there is reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143433	A study is now being drawn attention to, which I am aware of, and which I see most as a contribution to this debate, and in this light I think that, when we look at the study, it is forgotten that the preventive effect that we want to achieve with this study has in itself some value creation beyond the amount that the municipalities should set aside to administer the scheme, and that is not expected in this study. If you look at it in that light, there is a balance, as in that study, Mr. Andreas Steenberg is pointing to the fact that he hasn't been counted on at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143512	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143514	The study is based on public access to documents from the municipalities, so it is the municipalities' own figures that appear there, so I think that must be fair. With regard to the preventive effect, I think it has a very great effect, that one is simply being expelled, if one receives money, then that rule could not be enough, and then one could remove this requirement, and then one has the second set of rules next to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143541	If you believe in incentives and that preventive effects are one of them, then you also believe that they are buzzing up, the more you have of them. Clearly, this seems to be the case in this case, because the scheme works very well and it seems strange to us to change a functioning system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143600	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143611	The government has for the last four years taken a hard time to increase inequality in Danish society, and when you meet a success, I think you should take your hat off and recognise that it has succeeded in increasing inequality in Danish society. Since that's the goal, that's great! One example of this is the number of children who grow up in poverty, and that number has been dramatically increasing over the period. Another example, albeit minor, is the doubling of the requirement for financial guarantees in connection with family reunification from DKK 50,000. to DKK 100,000, which the government completed last year. This is typical of the fact that a financial institution has to deposit a sum of DKK 100,000 which must be deducted if the family member makes use of various forms of social security benefits. There it may well be that members of parliament in general believe that ordinary Danes have DKK 100,000. It is quite true that on average there is the amount of money available, there is no doubt about that, but there is quite a large proportion of the Danish population who do not have the available amount, also a large proportion of the Danish population who work every day, who never receive any social benefits and who have no intention whatsoever that their family-run spouse should receive any social benefits. That's why this is just socially wrong. You've chosen a model where you say that $100,000, what the hell, people can do that or is that why? Well, I'm really glad that we have Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen to tell the truth. No, that's not it. It's to make people stay away. Sir. Martin Henriksen came up with some figures where he indicated that it has even helped. Then you have to ask: who is it that has been lost? Are they the ones that have 5 million? kr. in the bank account? Are they the ones who haven't been able to get a family reunion and put $100,000? Into a bank book? No, of course it's not them. Those who suffer are the most disadvantaged or those who have the poorest conditions, the poorest living conditions, those who have the lowest wage, who work hard every day for a low wage. They're the ones who're gonna get hurt. This is creating inequality, while it is also an administrative burden, and I think, of course, that I would commend the government for having done so, because it is in line with government policy and I like parties to follow the policy they are in favour of. I have a little more difficulty in understanding what the purpose of social democracy is to support such a policy of inequality. I understood that it was not exactly invented by the Social Democrats, but votes have been cast for it. The Enhedslisten didn't. On the other hand, we would like to vote on this proposal to abolish the requirement for financial guarantees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143927	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425143944	Thank you for that, President. Over the past many decades in Denmark, we have received far too many foreigners who have not been able to support themselves, and this has had major consequences for public finances and for the citizens of Denmark, who have either had to pay much, much higher taxes than if we had not received so many foreigners who could not support themselves, or alternatively have received a worse welfare, because many billions of dollars had to be spent on paying public benefits to people, money that could instead have been spent on other things. Fortunately, it has now been tightened up. It's late, it's been tightened up, but better late than never. One of the areas that has been tightened up is that there are requirements for family reunification, marriage reunification, namely the provision of a security guarantee. In case you had to draw on public services, there's this guarantee that makes you pay for some of it yourself. That's common sense. We have to hold on to that. That is why we cannot in any way support the Radical Left's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144109	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144113	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen is doing what unfortunately happens very often in these debates, namely that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen generally talks about foreigners. I think this is wrong, and it should actually be wrong from a liberal point of view. What we are discussing here are the spouses of Danish citizens and not all kinds of others. It is wrong, of course, if you look at the studies that have been carried out, that the spouses of Danish citizens in particular represent a very large financial burden, because the analyses show that they are getting very much into work. This is because, if you do not get a job, you simply cannot get a lot of money, because if you do, you risk being expelled. In other words, there is a set of rules which, when it comes to the spouses of Danish citizens, ensure that people support themselves. Therefore, I do not see why one should have a rule like this one, which, in the words of the Danish People's Party, simply intends that Danish citizens cannot have their spouses in the country. Isn't that uliberal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144214	No, it is by no means unscriptural to ensure that legislation is designed in such a way as to ensure that people can support themselves. Whether foreigners or Danish citizens or foreigners are married to Danish citizens, people must support themselves. Unfortunately, there are plenty of legislation and also international agreements that stand in the way of us pursuing a policy that means that everyone, no matter what arrangement they come here on whom they are brought together, whether they are Danish nationals or foreign nationals, must support themselves. That is regrettable. It should be the case that no matter how you get here, you have to support yourself. You shouldn't just be able to get to the country and pull on the public boxes from day one. That is the case today. I don't mix things up. Here it has been possible to introduce a principle that ensures that there is some guarantee that the public funds will not be held back. And just because you can't do it in all areas doesn't mean you don't have to do it here. We will stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144321	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144324	But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is mixing things up a little bit. We in the Radical Left fully agree with this demand that you may be expelled if you do not support yourself and comply with the dependencies that exist. This is the question of whether the spouse should even come to the country and have the chance to support himself. There we were told by the Danish People's Party that these rules were made so that a Danish citizen could not get his spouse here at all. Does the Liberal Alliance agree that it is the aim that Danish citizens should not be able to get their spouse to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144356	The aim is to ensure that those who come here can support themselves if it is the case that they get into a situation where help is needed. That's why you make this demand. That is why the Radical Left also takes a very one-sided view of this demand, because the demand has consequences. The consequences are, of course, that it keeps people away who wouldn't be able to support themselves. You have to take that into account. It is good that the vast majority do so, but the fact that there is this guarantee also means that there are some people who do not come here who would not be able to support themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144432	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144436	I'm certainly not going to challenge Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's note that it has helped to raise the claim for a guarantee from 50,000 DKK. $100,000, but logically, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, it won't help anymore if you raised it to 200,000 kroner. or 400,000 kroner.? Would it not really keep even more people away and thus be even more effective?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144506	If this is a proposal that the Enhedslisten would like to discuss, then we are open to discussion of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144513	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144516	Now I have the opportunity to ask the Liberal Alliance about the policy of the Liberal Alliance. Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that it would help what is the objective, that is, Mr President? Martin Henriksen also rightly pointed out if you increase it from DKK 100,000. $200,000. or possibly 400,000 kroner.? I have to say, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that if you really go to the municipality and become addicted to benefits, 100,000 DKK will be spent. Well, not far, because they're used quickly. That would be a lot better with $100,000. $200,000 or more. Upstairs. Doesn't the Liberal Alliance agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144555	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144559	It is true, then, that in many ways it is a very lenient demand, because it is a very small amount that must be put in place in safety, and that is why we do not think it is an unreasonable demand either. If it were up to us, you could not receive anything from the public funds for the first many years you were in Denmark. It is then not possible to make such legislation for other reasons, and that is why you have to do the second best, and the second best is to ask that people have DKK 100.000. with them when they come to Denmark, where for many they will also draw on public spending for many, many thousands of kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144636	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144643	Thank you. I am speaking here on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. The alternative is to thank the Radicals for putting forward this proposal on the abolition of financial guarantees in matters of family reunification, with which we are very much in agreement and which we are therefore voting in favour of. We fully agree with the proposers that the financial collateral does not have any of the effects it was intended to have. At the same time, when studies show that it also involves costs for the municipalities, the requirement becomes completely meaningless, since the argument for the claim is that the immigrants must not incur additional costs for the public sector, which the spouses certainly never intended at all. In addition, financial collateral, particularly after it has been tightened up, creates structural discrimination against applicants. It does so because it is socially wrong and makes marriage marriage a privilege that does not all have financial access to. When Danish citizens' opportunities to live in Denmark with their foreign spouse become impossible in financial terms, we force them for a period of time to move to Sweden or to Germany, which is, of course, completely untenable. In the alternative, we believe that all Danish citizens should have the opportunity to be able to settle in Denmark with the person they have chosen to share their lives with, so that the state should not in fact decide who we can get to marry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144845	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425144858	Thank you. With the Radical Left's proposal, the demands for family reunification will be relaxed. In other words, we want to build on the mistakes made over the last 20-30 years in Danish integration policy. This means more marginalisation, more parallel societies and more children growing up with parents on cash benefits. That's the crazy recipe. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that you should support yourself and yours, and if you want your spouse to go to the country, you must of course be able to vouch for the fact that they are not at the disadvantage of society. That is common sense, and it is perfectly reasonable. One of the requirements is the requirement for financial collateral which, together with the related claim, creates incentives for self-reliance. We have problems in Denmark with the underemployment of the group of non-western immigrants, and that is why the demand is a natural extension of an immigration and integration policy to ensure that those who come to Denmark support themselves. Many people do that, and it's nice, but we want more people to be self-supporting. The motion for a resolution by the Radicals stresses that there is a very long way to go from the government and the policy of the Danish People's Party's Foreign and Integration Policy to the Radical Left, which is the parliamentary basis on which the Social Democracy will form a possible government. On the other hand, I must say that it is liberating that in these weeks before the forthcoming elections we will have a foretaste of what we can expect from a possible change of government, and I am sure that the Social Democrats and the Radicals will have plenty to talk about. As I said, there are many good reasons for demanding financial guarantees. You just have to take a walk past Mjølnerparken, where over 40%. of the residents are outside the labour market, or Vollsmose, where more than half are not in work. We believe that the proposals of the Radicals are the very wrong way to go, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145114	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145120	I hope, sir. Naser Khader will bother to hear the speech I have to make in a moment. For Mr. Naser Khader is guilty of some gigantic strawmen, compared to what the Radical Left thinks. We are in complete agreement with the dependency requirement. It is perfectly reasonable to say that a Danish citizen's spouse must support himself and learn Danish to stay. We support that demand so that some of what is being said is simply wrong. And then I could wish for it, too. Naser Khader then responds to the fact that you do not mix people in Mjølnerparken and Vollsmose with the spouses of Danish citizens. Sir. Naser Khader can go in and see the answers I have received about which countries those people are from. And it is therefore something quite different from those in Mjølnerparken and Vollsmose; they are therefore not married to Danish citizens. These are the spouses of Danish citizens, which is what this is all about, and that is why I think that Mr. Naser Khader should try to deal with the proposal that lies, and not everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145222	When we make legislation in Denmark, it is the case that it is according to objective criteria. We do not make any difference and what applies to Danish citizens also applies to non-Danish nationals in relation to family reunification. And the fact is that when some of them with a non-Danish background bring together families, they end up in ghetto areas where there are already major problems with social control, unemployment, crime etc. And this is one of the greatest challenges we have in integration policy. So we think it is important to make demands from day one when people come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145303	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145306	I think, sir. Naser Khader should try to document how many of those living in ghetto areas are the spouses of Danish citizens. Not many people do. I mean, it's wrong when mr. Naser Khader says that Danish citizens and other citizens cannot be distinguished. You can do that. In fact, it is now the case that in some cases Danish nationals have fewer rights to have a spouse than foreign nationals do. Then the Conservative People's Party, which is the family's party, could not look at whether Danish citizens could not have some rights that other citizens do not have, so that we do not have families separated?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145347	One of the major events that has given us a lot of problems with Danish citizens who are going to bring together their spouses and children is, in fact, something that was imposed on us from the outside by the European Court of Human Rights, which asked us to abolish the 26-year rule. This gave us a number of challenges in relation to Danes who want to bring their spouse and children together. If we had said no and that we wanted to maintain the 26-year rule, we would not have faced those problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145423	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145437	Thousands of Danish citizens travel to the world to experience the world, be on holiday, to work or to study. Here in the Folketing we want more of it: more exports, more trade, more cooperation, more knowledge from abroad. However, our own citizens must not find love outside the European Union for everything in the world. Then they meet with one harassing rule after another. These are the rules that we have had confirmed today with the Danish People's Party's speech that aim that a Danish citizen should not be able to have his or her foreign spouse in Denmark and instead must live in another country. Today, on the part of the Radical Left, we have proposed removing one of the rules that causes most problems for the Danes who have fallen in love with a non-EU citizen, namely the requirement that 100 000 kroner be paid in advance. in the bank guarantee to the municipality in order to be able to apply for his or her spouse to Denmark at all. As we also hear in today's debate, the majority use it as an argument that one must be able to support oneself. That's why you have to put this $100,000 so the municipality can subtract from the $100,000 if you don't support yourself. Nor do we in the Radicals disagree that one should support oneself. That is why we are also in favour of what is called future dependents that are already in force today. A Danish national or the spouse simply cannot receive anything from the municipality for 8 years, for then it probably leads to the expulsion of the spouse. This is a tough rule, but it also means that Danish-international families do not go to the municipality very much and ask for money. And a study has shown that seven out of ten Danish citizens' spouses are getting into jobs quite quickly. Therefore, there is no need to make the demand for DKK 100,000. A study from Marriage Without Borders shows that the five largest municipalities have more costs to manage these guarantees than they withdraw from them, i.e. they are DKK 100,000. It is a symbolism policy which has no effect in the real world. It is only to harass Danish citizens who have found love outside the EU and completely for no proper reason. It's not okay, because these Danish citizens have done nothing wrong. It does not seem that there is a majority to remove this requirement right now, but in the Radical Left we intend to continue to fight for the Danes who have found love abroad. And I also noted that the position of the Social Democratic Party is that the demand should at least be changed. It should be a right to live in your own homeland with your spouse and children. We're fighting for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145750	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145755	It's just to clear up a few misunderstandings. When Mr. Andreas Steenberg says that the rules are based on a desire to harass Danish citizens, it is wrong; there is no desire to harass Danish citizens. And when sir... Andreas Steenberg says that Danish citizens are not allowed to bring their foreign spouse to Denmark, it is also wrong. A Danish citizen can bring his or her foreign spouse to Denmark if they meet the requirements; that says just like itself. So this is not a ban, and I think that those who sit and listen should be left with the right impression of the rules. I'd like to ask you something. As I also mentioned from the platform, it was in 2015 that there were well over 11,000 foreigners who were brought together in Denmark. And, of course, it has something to do with asylum, refugee policy, immigrants in Denmark and Danish citizens. It has something to do with everything. And the total has fallen to just over 4,000 people. If we had listened to the Radical Left every time we had tightened up the rules on asylum, family reunification, etc. What's sir? Andreas Steenberg's comment on this, that if we had listened to the Radical Left, would we not have got the situation under control?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145908	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425145910	As I recall, sir. Martin Henriksen's rhetorical speech, Mr. Martin Henriksen, that the purpose of these rules was also that there should be fewer, i.e. that there should be Danish citizens who should experience that their spouses should not come here. That is why I said, as I did in the speech, and that is why I think it is harassment, especially when you can see that the municipalities do not actually withdraw from these bank guarantees, in other words there is another set of rules that achieves what you want. I have received an answer from the Minister that, as far as I remember freely from memory, the spouses of some 2 000 Danish citizens have been rejected during this parliamentary term. So my comment on the last question is that what this proposal is about and what we want will mean that there are 2 000 Danish citizens who could have their families and spouses here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150001	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150003	It is undoubtedly true that if the rules are relaxed, more will come here. Well, that's the way it is; then it will be easier to bring a foreign spouse to Denmark. There is no reason to hide it; that is the way it is. But you can get your foreign spouse to Denmark. This requires that some demands are met. In the view of the Danish People's Party, some requirements which are entirely, quite reasonable and which are necessary to make, also because among other things. The Radical Left has helped to distribute citizenship to some people who have not been Danish at all and who can therefore also apply for a foreign spouse to Denmark, for example from their home country or their parents' home country. It is also part of history, and it is quite essential. But no matter what your background is, you have to live up to requirements. I would like to ask: would it be a call from the Radicals to the Socialist Prime Minister's candidate to change the rules in this area if the majority changed after an election? How hard are you going to have to relax these rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150052	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150053	Quite hard, because I think it is wrong that our own citizens cannot have their spouses here. After all, we heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur that the position of the Social Democratic Party is that the demand here should be DKK 50,000. instead of DKK 100,000, and we will, of course, try to make the Social Democratic Party think so, since they themselves mean it. In general, we will fight all we can for Denmark's own citizens to live with a foreign spouse in Denmark, because the result of the policy that the Danish People's Party has been involved in is, as Mr. Martin Henriksen said in his speech that there are Danish citizens who experience that they cannot have their spouse here and that policy we disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150129	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150142	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150155	Thank you very much for that, President. This is social democratic heart blood, because everyone has to have equal opportunities. Everyone must have equal opportunities to train, and everyone must have equal opportunities to get a job. Everyone must have equal opportunities to develop and live the life they dream of. That goal is primary school one of the most important tools for achieving it. That is why it is also important that we work constantly to improve our primary school where we can. We still have one of the world's best primary schools, which continues to increase social mobility in our society. Everyone must have the freedom to choose the same future as they want. That is what was intended when we created the new framework for primary school. With this bill, we will implement an agreement that we made in January 2019. It is an adjustment of primary school to a more open and flexible primary school so that school day becomes even better for all children. It has become a very good agreement, in my opinion, with a great many social democratic impressions. We have talked a lot about the length of school day for a very, very long time. I think it is a pity that we are talking about the length of school day and not the content. We want a very varied education, and that is why I think it is perhaps also timely care right now that we shorten school days a little for the youngest pupils. It has been absolutely essential for the Social Democratic Party that we have secured the economy so that the money that comes in surplus, after shortening the school day for the youngest, will become teaching and that further economics have also been provided for the increased opening up of the sfo. At the intermediate stage and in the superstructure, if we get this bill passed, we can now shorten the school day by two hours to replace the UU hours by educational measures. Here too, the money for teaching must be used for educational purposes, and this has also been crucial for us. So we now provide a school day that is a little shorter for the pupils in the schooling, but also on the intermediate stage and in the superstructure, if you want it out there in the municipalities. Then there has been a lot of talk about the UU hours. It is the case that we have had a starting point for almost abolishing the UU hours proposed by the government, so that some 480 professional hours would replace the UU hours. We have shaved it down a lot in the Social Democratic Party, so we have now ended up with 90 classes instead of 1 visual art hour, 1 history hour and 1 2th foreign language lesson. It helps to ensure that we still have the UU away. It is still as it was in the reform of primary schools when we made it, and I am very pleased with that. Then we have clarified § 16b. I think that's fine, too. Now you can only use it in schooling or in special classes and in special schools in the intermediate stage and in the superstructure. I think it is fine that we have done it this way, so that it is now only on the intermediate stage and in the superstructure that you can shorten the school day with the UU-timers, if the municipalities so wish. There are other good moves in this bill. Among other things: We've been doing a reading campaign for all classes in every year. It is the case that we should start with the Book's Year, which is also a social democratic proposal, where we want to improve readers, increase readability and, of course, also make a reading boost. With this proposal, we are also reaching out for a whole lot of other positive measures. It is the way we look at the competence objective of teachers in schools. We know that it has been very difficult to achieve our competence goal that everyone or 95 per cent. of all teachers by 2020 must have an educational competence. We have still gone on to the goal, but we are now increasing it to 2025, because we also know that the last teachers have been hardest to get trained, so we have not relaxed on the target, but we have changed yes, it will not be until 2025 after that. In addition, we need to ensure that we get fewer temps in primary school. I think that would be really nice too. We also know that it is difficult for the municipalities that there are very many places not trained teachers, so that in itself it is a challenge, but that we reduce the number of temporary work hours, can only be in everyone's interest. I know that all municipalities work hard for the same thing. All in all, I think this is a very good bill. It is also really social democratic with our glasses. Of course, we support the bill. We very much hope that we will get it through before the elections are held. It is the case that it is dealt with as quickly as possible and, of course, we also support urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150648	We thank Mrs Annette Lind. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425150705	Thank you, President. This is, of course, a bill based on an agreement on the primary school to adjust the current legislation • it took four long months, in particular the Social Democrats and Radicals made knots. In the Danish People's Party we can then rejoice that the school day will be shorter, that there will be more classes and that even for the first time in many years more money will come. Specifically, school day 3 lessons will be shorter in schooling. The supporting instruction can then be converted into professional hours and shorter school days for the 0.3th class and for special classes in the 4.9th class if there is a two-teacher scheme. It's all excellent. Then the middle level and the secondary school can convert supporting teaching to two hours per week if they are used for two adult education, special talent courses or educators or teachers in connection with open school. And all of this must be approved by the municipal council. That's good, too. Then, fortunately, there will be fewer supporting lessons, but more courses, so students can learn something. There we can be delighted that there will be 1 extra lesson in French or German in the 5th grade, that visual art will now also receive 1 lesson in the 6th grade, so that there will be a course from 1st-6th grade, that food knowledge and design will receive indicative hours, and that food knowledge will be laid from 5th-6th grade, and craftsmanship and design from 3rd-6th grade. And then I would just like to remind you that we have previously adopted practical-music subjects in the 7th and 8th classes, craftsmanship and design as mandatory subjects, and the rest, i.e. music, food knowledge and visual arts, there is an opportunity to offer, so that we can have a course on among other things. larger schools in visual arts from the 1-8th class, if the student chooses, or in food knowledge or in craftsmanship and design. I find that gratifying. Folkeskole becomes a little more practical in that way. Then we also get 1 extra lesson in history in the ninth grade. This is so good, because history is a subject on the same level as Danish and mathematics, namely a minimum hour subject. So it's all very good. And then we move around on some lessons in sports, so we also... can make room for things. Then there is also something that has been very important for the Danish People's Party, namely that Christianity is made flexible in the 7th and 8th classes. And not only that, we also get written in that one can shorten teaching time by converting supporting teaching time to confirmation preparation with 2 lessons per week. It is based on some experiments that were made, and although I am quite critical of those attempts, it was nevertheless a good attempt, but we already knew that the schools would be happy about it. But if, on the other hand, attempts are to be made to convince my colleagues in the Assembly, this may sometimes be necessary. But it is very good that we now confirm that there must be room for confirmation preparation in primary school. That's so good. The purpose of supporting lessons is described more clearly, and this has also been necessary. A representative from the school board is also allowed to be on the recruitment committee when a school manager is to be found. I think that's excellent, too. And then the municipal council can turn the term into the school board 2 years instead of 4 years old. It's all very good. And with regard to the objective of competence, that is to say that teachers teach the subjects in which they are trained, we are postponing the objectives we have for a few years. That is actually very good, because it has been difficult for many. Then there is the last, but not least, that we are placing a lot of money, namely net 79 million. kr. This year and from next year 190 million. kr., which comes from different places. It's a good day for elementary school, despite the 4 long months of struggle. Finally, I would just like to thank the Minister for his good work under very difficult conditions over the four months. It has been a pleasure to work with the Minister, who does not re-table. And I just want to say from the platform that I will miss the Minister. The Minister knows that, but I think I will still take this opportunity to say thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425151159	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425151207	Thank you for the floor. As several others have said, the draft law we are now considering is, as it were, an adjustment of the primary school. It is true that we have been negotiating in many meetings and over a long time, but I think that what we have now achieved is something we can all be proud of. More specifically, the draft law proposes here a number of amendments which are actually intended to provide a clearer framework for the organisation of school days. It is the case that there is a shortening of the length of the school week, primarily for the youngest pupils, but it can also be used in relation to some of the older pupils. In addition to this, the draft law now makes it possible to increase professionalism and to give a quality boost to the supporting education. These are all things that can be said to have been discussed on several occasions, including in the public school conciliation circle, and I therefore believe that these stones, which have been in the way of creating a really good everyday life in schools out there, are now being cleared away. In the Left, we are convinced that freedom for the individual school is important. After all, they are the ones who know the students and know the local needs, and that is why one of the things that I have certainly helped to fight in the agreement here, among other things. to give a freedom for local authorities to decide in the future whether they can only sit on a school board for two years. I know that there have been municipalities out there who have asked for it, and I am also pleased that this is some of the things we have brought into the legislative proposal. I believe that in this way we may even get even more families, perhaps especially families with children, to take on the task of running for school boards. I think it is easier to understand to say yes to two years than it is to say yes to four years, and in this way I think you can also help strengthen the work of the school board. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, there is also an increase in some extra hours of work. Among other things: We have also got more visual art here, and language and history, and that is one of the things that has also been important to us in the Left. There is a clarification of section 16 (b), and I think that for all of us who are rapporteurs in the field of primary education, it is one of the things we are very happy to see in place. In any case, it has filled a great deal both at the negotiating meetings, but for that matter I think I'm also out in the public school world. It is the case that there is more clarity now, and I know that we are waiting for this bill to be adopted. I very much hope that the committee will support urgent treatment here later this afternoon so that we can adopt the law as soon as possible and that the heads of schools out there have clear lines and an overview of how they can now tackle it. So I can at least say that we in the Left are very much in favour of the fact that we also need to deal with this bill urgently so that it can be settled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425151543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425151548	Thank you. I do not think it can be too much said that this has been an exceptionally slow process. Some rapporteurs have already mentioned this. I see it now as actually longer than the four months that have been mentioned and see it more as an exceptionally slow process which has led to the recognition in the primary school circle of the need to change the long school days introduced by the reform of the primary school. It can be said that it has been a rise of approx. 6 years before the legal notes to this proposal could write the following: • With a general shortening in schooling, the youngest schoolchildren will have more time and energy for play, development and leisure activities outside the school. In addition, a shorter week of schooling will provide a better opportunity for the provision of leisure facilities to create a coherent response for the children. I'd be happy to sign that. I totally agree. I think it is sad that we have had to take such a violent detour to get here. I would therefore like to say that we in the Enhedslist welcome the fact that with the shortening of school days, what I would call the most unpopular reform of education in recent times is at last being shaken. The introduction of the long school days by the reform of the public schools was a huge mistake, the criticism has been massive from day one, and I really think it is surprising that we have to get all the way up here so close to a parliamentary election, where we now need to have an urgent procedure, in order to correct the legislation just a little bit. At the same time, I think it is a pity that the shortening of the youngest school day is as modest as it is. We would have liked to have seen a further shortening. I would say even more that we are annoyed by the fact that at the same time we are proposing a change to Article 16 of the primary school law, so that a ceiling is set on how much school day can be shortened when it comes to pupils in the intermediate stage and in the secondary school. In practice, the ceiling will mean that there will be a great many pupils who will not get cut short the school day, but on the contrary will get their school day done longer. This is also clear from the consultation answers available. We can see that it is the Danish Teacher's Association's assessment and School and Parent's assessment and several others', that with the ceiling of how many hours can be shortened on the middle level and in the school leaving, many will have a longer school day. I also think it is a pity that, at a time when so much is being said about creating greater freedom for schools, local models are being ignored for a reduction in school days, as they have come up with in many municipalities, and which I consider to be a great satisfaction for pupils, parents and teachers alike. I think it will create quite considerable frustration among many pupils when they find that what has been mentioned is that there are now finally shorter school days, because some will mean that there will actually be a longer school day, and I would like to have clarified in committee how many pupils it is that actually gets a longer school day. I think it would be very important to clarify that. Now that there is so much talk about how good it is that it gets shorter, it was actually really good to know how many students get a longer school day out of the bill here. We think that we should listen to the criticism that lies in a large number of the hearings so that the ceiling over the two hours set out in the new section 16b is dropped, and we intend to table an amendment to the legislative procedure to remove the ceiling of the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152009	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152019	Thank you for the floor. I stand here on Parliament's platform as probably the man in Denmark who should think best. The fact is that the bill we are dealing with today is a revision of a law implemented by my former wife, which is now, under the direction of my party colleague, the Minister of Education, something we are about to change, and here I think it is a matter of weighing the words on a sensitive scale before they are spoken. There I would say that if the change in the primary school was a restoration work, it would be possible to say that it had been done with great respect for the original building. Some might think with too much respect for the original building, but with respect for the original building. The architects' original architecture you can clearly see, but then there are a large number of cases of building sloppy and ill-thought out solutions in the original architectural drawings that we will have repaired. The school day in the small classes is getting shorter. It has been a great desire among the students, it has been a desire among the parents and among the teachers. It can therefore be said that it has been a desire among all those who directly have something to do with the school. The only people who have really enjoyed the long days have been the representatives of the majority who adopted the original school law, but here reason has prevailed. When there is a discrepancy between the map of reality and reality itself, it is and should be the reality that counts. In the middle stage and in the secondary school, municipalities can now grant derogations and shorten the school day. That is also positive. We strengthen the 2nd foreign language subject • what in many cases will say German, which is quite a pain child in the Danish school system • we strengthen visual arts and we strengthen history with several professional lessons, and this limits the amount of supportive teaching. We would have liked to have strengthened professionalism more, but we also respect the fact that a conciliation group must be held together, where not everyone cares equally about professionalism, and that is why we are satisfied with the outcome as a matter of course. So, of course, Liberal Alliance supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152254	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl for a balanced speech. We move on to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152306	Thank you very much. I am speaking today on behalf of our rapporteur, Carolina Magdalene Maier, on this draft law amending the law on primary school. Let me start by stating that any adjustment of the reform of primary schools towards greater freedom for schools is a good thing. I would just like to say that the reason I am standing on this platform is actually that I was so angry at the reform of primary school that I decided to go back into politics so I should really be grateful for it. Having said that, however, the alternative also welcomes in isolation this new agreement and we will therefore also vote in favour of the legislative proposal. In particular, it is positive that the youngest get a shorter week of school and that the local freedom to organise the school week increases for the remaining classes. So far, so good. However, it is incomprehensible to us in the alternative that the parties to the agreement should continue to make adjustments to a reform which should perhaps be looked at much more closely. Indeed, we believe that there is a need for far more general framework legislation, which goes back to the old length of school day, which does not contain learning-targeted education at all, and which leaves it up to schools how subjects and professionalism are to be administered and how education is to be organised. In other words, we want to go back to the professional school. In fact, there are far too many political fingerprints in our optics in Danish school policy, too, in this agreement, which draws clear political traces. That is, for example, the case. no secret, that the Danish People's Party has long wanted an upgrade of visual arts and history, or that the Radicals and Social Democrats have wanted to preserve the supporting teaching. Without dealing with the sensible or unreasonable nature of these specific elements, we believe that it is wrong to take primary school hostage to political agreements whereby all parties must be accommodated and have a whim of cake. In the alternative, we would much rather politicians get together and discuss what the primary school really is, what its purpose is, which young people we want to get out on the other side. Once we have done so and gladly in a new conciliation circle, we can leave it to professionals to translate the political visions. We politicians should have visions for primary school. We should not regulate the matter in detail, as unfortunately the new political agreement is also an example of this, but, as I said, we will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152601	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152613	Thank you. It's supposed to be fun to go to school. Students have to whistle on their way to school, and they still have to feel like whistling when they go home from school again. This is, of course, linked to how long school day is, but the more important it is what happens during school day. I dream of an open school with varied teaching, where the students both in school and outside the school will meet exciting artists, associations, companies, nature, so they don't just hear about things, but so they experience things and try things. Because we are losing too many children if they are to sit still and listen to much of the time and yet it is the reality of many schools. In particular, I have heard criticisms of two things: one is that there are too many rules; and the other is that there is too little money. There is simply a lack of money for bus tickets, for getting out of school and for more teachers and educators, so that they have proper time to prepare for the teaching. But there are also for square rules on how school day should look, and it tightens legs to do what makes sense at each school. That is why we in the Radical Left have worked to ensure that we have an extra billion kroner for the school per year, and that more freedom is also given to schools, so that what they do makes sense at each school. With the bill that we have here, we have come through with some of it: freedom, because school days are now shorter in schooling, and in middle and secondary education you can make school days shorter if you want to. It seems to me that the fine thing is that the schools that think it is working well, as it is now, are not forced to change everything again, while the schools that think that they can make much more varied and exciting school day, if the school day gets shorter, can be allowed to do so. I think that is a much better model than what the government started playing out with, namely that you would just make a new schedule for all schools where you would have many more professional hours. So with the agreement we have made with each other, we are now guaranteeing greater freedom of organization at each school. And when it is important for the Radical Left, it is because we believe that the school is run by the leaders together with the professional communities at the school, because it is they who are at school everyday who know the best interests of the children. With the shorter school days, there will also be a little more money to make good teaching for, but if it is really going to bat, we will need an extra billion kroner for the school a year, as we have proposed. And it takes a lot more than this law. It requires a new government in which the Radical Left is allowed to have something to say so it will be the next step for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152940	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425152954	You have to notice the title of this bill, because there is a hidden but very, very important detail. From the government's proposal to an adjustment of the primary school reform, the agreement is now called an adjustment of the primary school. I have never thought that it was an end in itself to make reform work. After all, reform is there to do something better, and it was as if the primary school debate in Denmark after the reform of the primary school was decimated that either one was in favour or against the reform. With this adjustment of primary school, it could be exciting if we could discuss school in the future based on what is going to happen with primary school, and not on how we get some reform to succeed. That also means that we are going to discuss again why it is that we run school. We do so because of what is in the primary school's purpose because children must be critical, capable people with knowledge, knowledge and skills who can go out and be part of the society in which they live can relate to the environment, to other people. I think it has been the case in education policy for a number of years that it has been about pushing children out as quickly as possible so that they could become something. And I would like the purpose of having a school in Denmark to be that they should become someone. What's interesting about this proposal is that it's kind of a change of course. Who knows best how to run school in Denmark? If it's me, sir. Henrik Dahl or Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, are those the people in the ministry, is that Christiansborg? There has certainly been a tendency to decide a great deal from within Christiansborg about how school day should look locally, how to run school. I think this bill is a little freedom letter to the public schools just a little recognition that it's not us who know best, it's actually those who work out locally, those who teach out locally, who know best. It is a letter of freedom, in relation to how long the school day should be. You don't just specify section 16b, you improve section 16b, so you say to all municipalities: It may be a good idea to make school day shorter and e.g. spend the hours having two adults. One gives a letter of freedom in relation to pedagogy and says: Drop those forced learning goals, drop the forced learning goal-driven teaching, trust the skills of educators and teachers. You give educational freedom in relation to the learning platforms a little nerdy thing, but do you run school to teach the children, or do you run school to fill learning platform pages with flybones? I think we're running school to create a good school day for the kids, and that's what we're giving freedom to do. Then we'll make school day shorter for the smallest. It is nice and good when we have been able to see that there are several of the smallest who have not been comfortable with such long school days. At the same time, we'll strengthen the leisure facilities... they'll have a longer day over in the sfo. I think it's 80%. of all children who go to sfo, and I think that the debate on primary school has forgotten how important an offer sfo is. And then it is good that we will be discussing this shortly during the next legislative procedure. Finally, support for education is strengthened. The idea of supporting teaching was to bring some of the experiences of the surrounding world into school; it was to teach in different ways; it was to do the things that were not normally available in specialised hours. But it was rather vaguely described in the law, I think, because it was a political compromise. I think we are sharpening up what supporting teaching should be with this agreement, and we are setting aside money to strengthen it. That's good. So are we in the finish line? No. In a moment there will be parliamentary elections, and I think it's a good thing that we're going to get this deal done. I think that's gonna create some tranquillity in the public schools, and that's why it's going to have to go through quickly. But I still think we're going to discuss how we can give more freedom. I think we are still going to discuss the fact that teachers' average teaching hours have increased and increased and that their preparation path metal has decreased. I still think we're going to discuss the fact that class sizes are getting bigger and bigger. Therefore, there is a need to discuss a lower class ceiling, a ceiling on teaching time and increasingly freedom. We will, even after the elections. Finally, I would just like to thank the Minister for persistently insisting that we should have an agreement. This view has been shared by the SF and I think the Minister did a good job during the negotiations, just as I also think there was a very good mood at the end of the parties when we had to agree on what should happen to the primary school now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425153504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Since no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425153511	Thank you. Can it be so difficult to agree to give the children a little more free time and a little more professional hours and give the schools a little more flexibility in organising the school day? Yes, it can be, because we are a large conciliation group with parties that want to do well in our own way, and we do not always agree exactly what the good is. But with this agreement, after a lot of hard work and many conversations, we have agreed and have made a really fine deal SF calls it a letter of freedom, and I think that's a good way to see it, that there should be something more freedom left for schools and municipalities, so you can make some choices locally. So it is a really good day in politics to stand here with an agreement that everyone agrees on and that makes sense to a lot of citizens and that starts from what it is all about, and therefore makes everyday life better. For primary school is one of the most important social institutions we have. It must be able to work well for teachers and students, so Wednesday 30 January this year was a good day in politics because we agreed on more freedom and professionalism. Today, we are dealing first with the legislative proposal that makes the political agreement a reality. The pupils receive shorter school days, and the schools receive more freedom. The young pupils are cut short their school week with 3 lessons, and in the middle and the oldest classes you can locally shorten the school day and use the resources for better teaching. 90 additional lessons have been given in the subjects to give priority to foreign languages, visual arts and history, while at the same time there are fewer hours spent on supporting teaching. The students must learn something at school, but they must also be allowed to be children. They need time to play, skateboard, play handball, and have leisure time. Children who also have a community outside the school are less likely to become lonely and vulnerable. We must safeguard the good life of children and we must be able to listen to parents, teachers and students, even when child life comes under pressure. If there isn't air and time for everything they want out of school, then we should listen to it. For everything that is important cannot necessarily be put on a schedule or on a formula. The primary school is the school of the people, which is why we have to listen to all those who are in it, and we have done so with this agreement, because all changes in primary school must make sense to them. The school must be able to provide the students with structure, framework and tranquillity, and in return the school must have freedom and respect for professionalism, and that is precisely the intention behind this bill. I would, of course, like to thank all the parties that have contributed their own. We can then all have different wishes that there should have been more freedom or less freedom, more professionalism or less professionalism, but here we have agreed on an agreement that can be used in schools, and that is good. But I would like to take this opportunity, of course, to send a special thanks to my closest colleague, Henrik Dahl, for at least looking as if he has received all the texts I have sent him in this course, and to the SF to insist on freedom and good children's life. It must never be the case that children are just some we are dreaming of becoming perfect adults who can enter the labour market, do good and pay their taxes. Children are people in their own right, and we must remember to look at them and make sure that the frames around them are good for them exactly where they are in life, and the SF has had a great deal of focus on that. I would also like to say a special thank you to the DF for insisting on professionalism and on education, on all the knowledge that is so essential for children to understand the world around them that they will be able to marvel, act, seek new knowledge and also become citizens in cooperation with a society of freedom and popular rule when they grow up. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154021	We thank the Minister for Education. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154039	The debate is open. It is the Minister of Education who opens the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154113	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF for presenting this resolution and this is a good opportunity to discuss an important issue: the good life of children. Children's life is, and I think we agree on that, not just school with tables, calculations and grammar. Children's life is also leisure, play, comrades, communities, secrets, all things important. Parents play a natural role in a good and safe child life, but so do the educators, and therefore it is also pleasing that we have a strong tradition of leisure in Denmark and that the quality of our leisure offers is high. Last year, the Danish Evaluation Institute carried out a study on the use of leisure facilities by children and young people, and the study shows that both parents and managers express that children are happy to come into leisure and club services. They have friends, they are safe with adults, and they have free time, which they decide for themselves. The leisure area is a municipal core task. The municipalities must organise the offers and give priority to funding across welfare areas according to what makes sense locally. This is not something that the state should go in and regulate. If we start to run in detail for many municipal core tasks, we will water down the local democracy that is in the municipalities, and the government does not want that. That is the main reason why we cannot support the SF resolution. SF, with its proposal, instructs the government to convene the parties of the Folketing to negotiate an agreement to strengthen leisure opportunities for children and young people in Denmark. SF wants the government to convene these negotiations at the end of April this year. It is important for the government that children and young people have a good leisure life and the framework is good, and this is also a priority area. The government, together with the public school board in January, has concluded an agreement which in several areas strengthens professionalism and freedom in primary schools. Among other things: the youngest pupils have shortened their school week by three lessons, and in the intermediate stage and in the schooling, more flexible opportunities are given for local shortening of school days and spending resources on better education. It means everything else equal that the youngest students come earlier in sfo, and the government has therefore also set aside financial resources for that. At the same time, the public school board has set aside 190 million. kr. Every year, full phased into a quality increase in supporting education, which will contribute to a varied and exciting school day. The students must learn something at school, but they must also be allowed to be children. They need time to play, go to football or scout and have leisure work. They need time to have a life outside of school. Leisure is an important arena to ensure well-being among children and young people. Children who also have a community outside the school are less likely to become lonely. It is precisely in relation to well-being, which also affects the SF's proposal, that the stake pool parties have set aside 120 million. kr. to look at how the municipalities' outreach and preventive work with psychological distrust can be strengthened through pedagogical-psychological advice. We must safeguard children and young people's leisure lives. That is the responsibility of parents, but it is also a political task. We must ensure the best possible framework both in school and in leisure establishments. Local self-government means that it is the responsibility and right of the municipalities to set up leisure facilities, which makes the best sense locally. The government has full confidence that the municipalities can manage this autonomy. On the basis of the reasons just outlined, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154455	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154458	I have to keep the Minister on the floor for as long as possible. Perhaps this is the last time the Minister is on the floor, so I shall now raise a very long question. No. The reason SF has made this proposal is because we believe that the leisure area has been a rather neglected area at Christiansborg. It is true that some of this is the responsibility of the municipalities, but there is indeed something that Christiansborg can look at. For example: BUPL has several times suggested that you look at the club law to uniform it and ensure that no matter which municipality we talk about in Denmark, you have good club offers. They have also said what is Christiansborg's job, namely that you could look again at the goals and content descriptions that are, for the SFOs to see if they are up to date, whether they are good or whether we can have greater ambitions with them. And then you could look at the norms, but there I know there is probably a bit of a long way to go. But what do you think the minister could do from in here to strengthen leisure opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154555	But one thing that would be obvious, and which I also know the Left is concerned about, is whether freedom of establishment can be created for free clubs, so that you can better start up and create something unique. So there are opportunities, you might say, in this area too, to give more freedom, and that is what I am concerned about. There's no secret in that. The fact is that allowing citizens to act themselves, even to create something, simply creates greater diversity. After all, we are a country surrounded by sea, and yet we have astonishingly few leisure opportunities, which lie right out by the sea. So this trying to experiment with how we can create a freer framework for leisure offers, so that you also have greater diversity within them, I could see that work could continue on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154654	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154655	Thank you. That sounds exciting to me, but it will also require that it be discussed. So is this something that the Minister imagines one could at some point negotiate or discuss among the parties • precisely this with a freer framework for what it takes to run a club?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154715	Yes, indeed. Now it may be the last time we stand here, and then I must also remember to say this sentence because I have promised at home as my husband always says: Yes, we can discuss that. Turns out he's really the one who's been sitting at home making up everything I've been saying. No, back to the subject. In fact, I see some fine opportunities to work with leisure education, for which we have a 100-year tradition in Denmark, and to set it free, to ensure that there is greater diversity and thus more involvement in leisure offers, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154754	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154756	Then it wasn't the last sentence anyway. I very much agree with what the Minister says about the fact that it would be great to have more different leisure opportunities; I would also love to have such a beach children's garden. But exactly the opposite has happened, because it has become more similar because we have gone away from having a leisure home, as it has moved into schools and has become sfos. Isn't that all else just an expression of the fact that we haven't taken it seriously at Christiansborg, because it's just been allowed to happen, the development has just happened around, and isn't it exactly necessary that if you want to have several different offers that lie in nature, we should also take responsibility for it at Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154845	So now I have to be both old-fashioned and involve my dear husband again, because what we were talking about, exactly when the reform of the primary school was introduced, was that this is going to hit hard on leisure opportunities. It can be said that the Danes still largely opt for leisure facilities, although there is a longer school day, but it is clear that the educational framework one has is different when the school day has become as long as it is. And now we're abbreviating it, also for the small ones, and that gives some possibilities, but it's still relatively long. So you just have to remember that you can't both blow and have flour in your mouth, because the kids are in one place or another. So if you want to do something about leisure education, you also have to make sure that there is time so that you can go on excursions or do activities that are meaningful. And that matters, you can tell how many hours are available when you have to do something exciting with the kids. So the framework for the institutions means a great deal, they do, but the lessons that you have with children also mean something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154946	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425154947	Yeah, but that's only part of it. After all, the reform of primary schools cannot be blamed for the fact that so many leisure homes have been closed down and so many sfos have been made, because that development was in full swing before. Therefore, I would just like to ask whether the Minister does not think that if we want to have several different leisure homes, we will have to take responsibility for it from Christiansborg, because then it is about what the purpose of our leisure offers is and what we really want there to be during the day what the good children's life is when you are on the leisure offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155027	I want to warn very, very much against planned economy in every way. This is true in this area and in all sorts of other areas. This is exactly what has proved extremely difficult with primary school: sitting in here and deciding that you should have a varied school day. You have that in some places, but it is very difficult to decide from in here, so it is so important to work with the commitment of the citizens and to allow it, because then it is the variation that arises. And there are these unique leisure homes where there are some people who have been allowed in a framework to challenge what pedagogy can do, and we need to give better opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155103	Then we say thank you to the Minister, with the addition that it is true that you can be on the platform for a long time, but that we also have some rules on speaking time which determine how long you are on the platform. We are moving forward with the debate, and this is Mrs Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155124	Thank you. Some of the strongest communities find many children and young people in their spare time in voluntary associations and in municipal leisure facilities. Unfortunately, there are fewer vulnerable children who go to leisure and youth clubs than in the past, just as it is the group that gets the least in voluntary association life, although it is often those who most need a safe place to be. More vulnerable children and young people must be part of a strong community in their leisure time, where they can establish relationships with both adults and peers, and where they can get a free space from what can be difficult at home. That is why the Social Democratic Party has already proposed strengthening both the municipal leisure institutions and the voluntary leisure facilities so that more vulnerable children and young people can become part of the community. We have, for example. proposed to strengthen club offers in the vulnerable areas with more educators, demands for outreach work and longer opening hours, and we have proposed that voluntary associations doing social work should have fixed funding and agreements • opposite today, where they often have to seek support from year to year to establish, operate and maintain activities. This motion for a resolution calls for negotiations to be held on how to strengthen leisure facilities in Denmark. As I read, the concrete form is open for discussion. The Social Democratic Party therefore thanks SF for the opportunity to focus on how we can raise our leisure opportunities and make them even better than today. We in the Social Democratic Party are very concerned about the fact that we are getting the benefit of our children and young people. Unfortunately, we have seen a number of negative trends over recent years. More children and young people feel lonely, depressed, and stressed; we need to do something about that. And although the explanations may be many, one of the places where we can do more is the leisure area. This was also why the Social Democratic Party fought so hard in the public school negotiations that with a shorter school day money was secured for the SFOs to have longer open. For the SFOs, an important role is played in raising and stabilising the well-being of our children and young people. The Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155441	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155443	Thank you. In these days I think most of us rapporteurs are receiving e-mails from some of these people who have created the opportunities of self-serving private leisure homes in the Copenhagen area. It is the case that there are some who are concerned that the City of Copenhagen may choose to close just 22 self-serving leisure homes within the next few weeks. The Socialists' rapporteur uses words such as fighting for good opportunities and so on. in a leisure home. Is there any intention that the Social Democrats' rapporteur will also take a fight with the City of Copenhagen to ensure that these 22 self-serving leisure homes are allowed to last?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155543	Thank you for the question. I do not imagine that we should sit and discuss the individual municipalities. As was mentioned earlier, this is precisely the point of not having to run retail in here from Christiansborg. I have tried to stress what is important to us with the overall objectives of leisure provision for children and young people, and that is what we must bear in mind when we sit in the negotiations. We welcome and welcome the fact that the SF has lifted this debate today, and we look forward to the debate, which hopefully will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155627	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155629	Thank you. I know that we must not, of course, run in detail here from Christiansborg. But perhaps I can ask whether the Socialists are prepared to look at whether the right of establishment should be granted to good self-serving leisure clubs, as well as to private day-to-day services, so perhaps the two things should be treated equally?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155657-2	I think it is really important that we now have the debate, that negotiations are called for and that we have the overall focus on children and young people, especially the one with dissatisfaction that is very close to my heart. However, this requires us to work together well, to have broad cooperation, and I hope that the Left will also take part in those negotiations and come in with the very specific issues, because I certainly think there should be room and time for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155733	We thank the rapporteur, and we will move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155743	Thank you very much for that, and also thank you very much to the SF for making this proposal. Our leisure facilities are really important because everyone, whether you are a child or an adult or an old person, simply needs to be part of a community. Perhaps, over the years, we have underestimated what our leisure opportunities can do. Leisure offers can be very special, as no one else can. This is often where you find the fire souls. They are the ones who make a difference to the children at risk and may help to reverse the social heritage. This is where you make friends; you feel free; you develop; you do what you want most; and, above all, you are part of a community. In fact, we would really like to talk about how we can strengthen our leisure opportunities, but if that is to happen through negotiations, we are not so sure. The reason for this is that it is only the Minister's competence to convene. We have also had the debate earlier today. We are not so happy to have to commit a future Parliament and a future minister and possibly a future rapporteur in my place to do something. There is probably so much good to say, but as the Minister has also said, much of it is actually a municipal task, but at least we do not want to set our feet on sending out more money. Unfortunately, in other areas too, we have seen that when you send a bag of money with one hand, they are taken with the other hand, and this is where we fall into how much Christiansborg has to control. We are really sorry about this when we sit in negotiations and we get priority money for one particular area and we get them working that we can then see that the municipalities choose to save with the other hand. That's too bad. We do not support the proposal, but we do not say no if we are invited to negotiations or if Mr. Jacob Mark offers coffee at the office.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155931	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425155934	I would just like to sign and say that I am pleased that the rapporteur and the DF are both prepared that if there is going to be a minister who at some point thinks it is important to negotiate, and I think that there will be, whether it is going to be a blue or a red, because this is an important area, they would like to negotiate it and also that DF sees no problem in adding more money to the leisure area. And then I think we should take that coffee one day when the rapporteur has hopefully been elected again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160004	I say thank you and thank you for the offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160010	That did not give rise to any further comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur and we welcome Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160015	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the SF for raising this debate. In fact, I think this is an important debate. Although it is close to an election, I do think it is important that we take the debate in this Chamber today. Unfortunately, for the same reason, I have to sadden the SF with the fact that, unfortunately, the Left will not support the proposal, but it does not mean that we in the Left do not think it is really important that we have good leisure opportunities for our children and young people. We fully agree that both children and young people have an incredibly good share in social communities, and we also agree that it is important for our children to participate actively in the various local environments. Otherwise, I actually think that in my rapporteur's speech, I will go a little further on what I think many are affected by, perhaps also in these days. At least I get a lot of e-mails in my inbox. After all, as parents, you have no rights to create a private leisure facility, a leisure club. You have no right. This requires the municipality to enter into a contract. The municipality can also cancel the contract, and that is probably what is going on in these days in the City of Copenhagen. I have to say that it has certainly been the case that we in the Left have looked at this and that we also have a view that we should look at whether we should not equate the day-to-day offer with the leisure area, that is, the leisure club area. At any rate, this is one of the things that I would very much like to discuss further, even after a parliamentary election. I know that it may be difficult to help those who are in this situation in these very days by getting a change of law in place, because that will require, but I can at least shake hands with the fact that this is one of the things I would also like to discuss after a parliamentary election. But with those words we will vote against the resolution, and I have also promised to greet the Conservatives and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160238	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160249	Now I really get curious about what the Left thinks about the leisure homes in Copenhagen. I think it's a tough case. I really believe that leisure homes should last. And when the Copenhagen politicians consider closing them and replacing them with sfos, it is because you can charge a higher user fee for a sfo space. So when the rapporteur says that sfo's and leisure homes must be treated equally, i.e. the day-off law and the school-free scheme in the primary school law, they must then be treated in such a way as to free the user in leisure homes, or they must be treated in such a way as to set a ceiling of 30%. on the sfo's?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160331	Now it is here in the last few days that I have asked a little about things, in fact both the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and the Minister for Education, and I actually think we owe each other a little more digging into these things. At any rate, I think it is wrong to have a right to establish a private offer in the case of day-to-day offers, but that is not the right to have a leisure offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160400	The reason I'm asking is that it's a little important whether you set the user fee free or whether you want to reduce the user fee. I think that is an exciting debate. And then I just want to say that the SF and the Left have actually been fighting for the self-serving form for many years, not the private form. I know that the Left has a love for the self-serving form. So I think it might be exciting to examine this with how we strengthen the self-serving institutions in the future, and it is both day offers and leisure offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160431	We will confirm that we in the Left also think that is important. So I can see that we already have a number of different items on the agenda when we have to meet after an election to discuss these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160442	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. And welcome to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten (The Red Greens).
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160449	This proposal has not been as long along the way as the one we were discussing just now, but it was already put forward on 1 March, and I think it is a pity that we are only discussing it today, because I believe that it is realistically impossible for us to have negotiations in this area. But that doesn't change the fact that we in Enhedslisten are incredibly in agreement with the intention of the SF's proposal. After all, the leisure area has really been treated very badly for many years. One of the rapporteurs said "or was it the minister?" In other words, the reform of primary schools has been a major problem in relation to school freetime schemes, but the transformation of our leisure area really goes much further back. After all, this is a sad story back from the mid-1980s, when there was a very strong desire at that time to push down the school start age, which is why you did not want to have the leisure area under social legislation, but moved it under primary school law in a hope that it could be a rambuck to push through a previous school start. And that is why much of the sfo period has also been marked by the fact that one was really concerned that it should look more and more like a school. It has simply been a real pity for the area. As the years have passed, I think it is fair to say that there are very many good school freetime schemes and that the strong traditions of leisure education in the old leisure home area have been very cleverly passed on by a great many skilled professionals over the years in school freetime schemes. So, although this has been an unfortunate development, I also believe that one should be careful with one's rhetoric towards the sfos. In fact, there are many of them who do really, really well. However, the way in which the legislation has been tightened up is that, as I said, 35 years ago, it has given some poor assumptions. And that is why we also have that weird construction where there is a much-developed objective over in social legislation about what our leisure homes should be able to do, while it is completely sporadic dealt with in primary school legislation. It is very strange, even in that we only have a small pocket of resistance left in Copenhagen, where there are leisure homes, while the rest of the area is thus subject to primary school legislation. So it is quite unnatural that where there are strong wordings in this area is actually in that part of the legislation which is largely not being applied today. That is really a pity, but it should not prevent us from trying to have a thorough discussion on: can we do anything more? And, of course, the motion for a resolution mentions many excellent elements, which we agree with as a starting point also over in the club area. Well, the club area has been marked by the same amount of time someone remembers being divided into different legislations. It is a very good idea that BUPL has launched, namely to bring the legislation together so that we have one collective club offer law. And it is important that we do something about the coverage levels. There has been a negative impact on the primary school law, in terms of fewer people attending school freetime arrangements. The interaction between the very high payment and the short days of school break arrangements has led a number of parents to take their children out and, unfortunately, reference is made here to the EVA study. It also has a social battle page in relation to which parents have taken their children out. So there is really a lot to be done in this area, and perhaps it was a good idea to have a more fundamental discussion. As I said, I do not believe that I can hear from other rapporteurs that we are starting a debate now. And otherwise I am not a warm supporter of great Commission work, which can sometimes be such in fact training in terms of achieving sensible content, but perhaps in this area it could be a very good idea to take a more fundamental approach and look at what our leisure institutions and our clubs really should be able to do, and then perhaps on that basis have a wider debate carried out after a choice. Anyway, thank you very much for the proposal. I think it is good and we support the intention. And if we get there in this sitting, we will also vote in favour of the proposal when it comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160946	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments, so we welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425160954	Thank you for the floor. I think that the idea behind motion for a resolution No. B 130 is both good and right. It is important to safeguard the lives of children and young people, and it is important to remember that childhood and youth also consist of a whole lot of time when you do not have to do something in an efficiency-oriented sense. When I think of my own childhood and youth, it is difficult to crack down on concrete content, but I remember very much a feeling of being free, and that is the one I think we should try to protect. It is good that you can sit down with a book and travel on the wings of your imagination, and for my part it was good that I could get my bike and my good friend Preben and drive somewhere exciting, out to the dikes and the Wadden Sea or all the way to Rømø with towel and swimwear, even if you weren't allowed. It was in many ways such a Pippi Longstocking childhood that we had down there in South Jutland. With my friends, I went on the most amazing trips, either in my imagination or in reality. But I don't think there's much Pippi Longstocking over this proposal. Actually, I think it's more marked by Miss Prysselius. Now it may not be everyone who can their Pippi Longstocking, but Miss Prysselius stands for the opposite of Pippi Longstocking, a tight and regulating lady who, with her soft iron hand, would like to determine everything, a caseworker and besserwisser type, which Astrid Lindgren made complete and total laugh with, but who has now taken over power in her homeland, and which I may not think we should give too much room for here in Denmark. We live in a society where it is not Pippi Longstocking who has won, but on the contrary Miss Prysselius, who decides, forbids, regulates and hates that things are going on that she has not written down and described. Although the intention of the proposal is good, I think that such a conference and some overall ideas, etc. etc. Prysselius is more than Pippi. It is good that we have good leisure opportunities, but they must be designed for the children and managed decentralisedly, not in the spirit of Prysselius. So I think it is very good and that it is true that the Danish Parliament should create opportunities for a good life for children and young people, but I think that more centralism is being put in place than is good, as I read the proposal at least, and that is why we also say yes to many of the good ideas, but no to the specific motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161310	You're welcome, sir. Dahl. There are no brief comments, so we move on quickly to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161321	Thank you. We would like to thank the SF for the motion for a resolution on strengthening leisure facilities for children and young people. I am speaking on behalf of the Alternative rapporteur, Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Basically, we believe that all children in Denmark deserve the best day care institutions, primary schools and leisure facilities and complete security. Leisure offers that children can use after the school day is over are a hugely important space for many children. We all know how the student structure in the school classes often settles when it has been a while. Some students become those who are skilled in mathematics; others become those who are skilled in English; others, in turn, those who are skilled in Danish. Unfortunately, however, there are also some children who never get these preachers on them at school. Therefore, it is so extremely important that there are rooms where those students who may not be the best in the book at school can light up and throw off some star dust. A room like that can be a leisure offer. Therefore, it is super important that leisure offers are available financially and practically. It is also important that leisure offers can be used. It is really a pity that the reform of the primary school resulted in a longer day of school, because it has meant that especially the children at risk are given less leisure time than before the reform. That is why we welcome any action that can strengthen leisure opportunities. We therefore support the motion for a resolution, including that part of what is about setting a ceiling on parental pay, so that we can put an end to the unequal conditions between the various leisure opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161512	Thank you, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. And warm welcome and mojn, mojn to another rudder, namely Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161525	Thank you. Now I will say something that you very rarely hear me say, namely how good it was in the old days. I loved my home. In Aabenraa at the German leisure home we had turtles, we had rabbits, we had a bicycle workshop, we had a wooden workshop, we made puppets, we had a cable car, we had a huge swing, we had a small forest, and you could learn how to play guitar if you wanted to. It was a good child's life. That is why I am also sorry that developments have gone in the direction of these leisure homes and I think we should take political responsibility for having more different leisure homes. That is why I think it is a good idea for the SF, with this motion for a resolution, to call for us to have negotiations. We in the Radical Left would like to support that. But I would also like the debate to really be wider than the proposal has been put forward, because one thing is that it means something, that there are adults enough, so of course it matters how many adults there are, for what educational activities you can do, but another thing is, and it is equally important to me that we also focus on what is the purpose of our leisure and what is the good child life in leisure offers. Therefore, before this is voted down in a few moments, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, you and I need to make sure this happens after the next election. And there I want to stress that we also focus on more play, on more nature, on more animals, on more construction playgrounds, where you can build things, create things, settle a little, and that we have different forms, because I also love that we have self-serving institutions that can organise themselves in other ways. So we must certainly continue to work on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161742	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. And welcome to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161754	Thank you. For the Conservative People's Party, it is important that children and young people have a good leisure life and that there is a good framework for it. This is a priority area. Leisure for children and young people is both parental responsibility, but it is also a political task to prioritise the framework for the area. And the motion for a resolution instructs the government to start negotiations on an agreement to strengthen the leisure facilities for children and young people at least as I read it. Last year, the Danish Evaluation Institute conducted a study on the use of leisure facilities by children and young people, and the study showed that both parents and managers expressed the children's joy at the leisure and club offer, that they were safe with adults, that they had friends, and that they had time as they themselves had, while they were in the leisure and club offer. The leisure area is a municipal task, and the municipalities must organise leisure facilities and give priority to the area, which makes sense locally. The municipalities know best the local conditions, and we do not think it is something that Christiansborg's side should regulate in this way. Because if we start to regulate the core tasks of the municipalities in detail, we will also destroy local democracy in the municipalities. We, the Conservatives, do not want to do that and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161936	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425161942	Thank you. It was because the rapporteur mentioned that EVA had produced an exciting report on the sfos. The report is quite exciting. It shows both that there is satisfaction with leisure offers, but also that there is considerable room for improvement because they have, like, had a difficult time in the last few years. The researchers behind it then write something that I stumbled over, namely that more research is needed. I often think they just end their research reports: that's the way it is. But they're actually saying there's room to investigate more here. I wrote to the Minister and asked: Can't you do that? I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur, now that the rapporteur himself referred to the report, could be prepared for us to study more on how to strengthen leisure facilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162031	Now this study has just been carried out, and of course the results obtained from that study should be believed. Then it may well be that at a later stage there is a need for us to look further into the area. It is always good, if you want to improve something, to look at where you can put in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162051	Thank you to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. The questioner will then not be given the floor, but the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke, will do so. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162107	Thank you. When this motion for a resolution to strengthen leisure facilities or, in fact, simply to call for negotiations to strengthen leisure facilities is important, it is because I and the SF have seen that leisure offers have been a little forgotten in the debate on good children's and young people's policy for many years. It is because you made a reform where, as with the reform of the primary school, you moved a lot of focus to the primary school and also moved money from the sfo and into the primary school, but it is also because it has, like it has just slipped out of what looks like people's consciousness to talk about how important leisure life is for children and young people. Therefore, on behalf of the SF, I would like to put forward this proposal because I thought it was exciting to hear what the parties in the Folketing really think about how we can strengthen leisure life. I am also slightly uplifted by the fact that there are some parties, the Social Democrats, the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, who say that this is a very good idea, and I would like to say thank you for that, but I would also like to thank the other parties who have each talked about why they believe that leisure and leisure facilities are really important for Denmark. So it gives me hope that when we get around on the other side of the parliamentary election, this can come into focus. Some of what we think can strengthen... no, let me start somewhere else. Sir. Henrik Dahl made an excellent speech, and he often does, but there were just so many pictures in your speech about Pippi Longstocking and her the tight aunt that I forgot to press the button so I could ask you a question. But what I would have asked, and what is now my point, is that if there is to be room for Pippi Longstocking and if there is to be room for those free thoughts, the free play and all the things that Mr. Henrik Dahl talked about, so I think it best if there is a strong purpose and if there is freedom locally and if there are enough people out there for example. to initiate the game, but also to say that there they must play for themselves. What I hear both the researchers behind that EVA report and those who work out in leisure offers say is that there will be less Pippi Longstocking if we don't get the focus on this area soon, and that's why I think I represent Pippi Longstocking in this question. One could have looked at strengthening the standards. You could have looked at the user fee. There are municipalities where it is cheaper to send your child to a private school with sfo than it is just sending your child to the municipal sfo. I don't think that's right. So user fees, new target and content descriptions, a new club law that strengthens the clubs and ensures that they are in all municipalities in Denmark, I think I would have been exciting to discuss, but I am sure that we will have the opportunity to do so after a choice. Now the debate on the Copenhagen leisure homes came up, and I really thought it was a little interesting that Mrs Anni Matthiesen brought up. I think it is tragic if leisure homes die out, because the purpose of leisure homes is described in the law very strongly.I really think that it can create the framework for a cool way to do pedagogy but also because there is a ceiling on how much parents have to pay, because that is in the day-to-day law. So I think that between parties we should commit ourselves to saying that when we come in after a parliamentary election, we will find a solution that will ensure that in future there will also be opportunities for leisure homes and also to strengthen leisure homes. I really like the self-serving day offer. I believe that local engagement can create some really good offers. This does not mean that there should be no sfos, but it means that we must ensure that the thinking behind leisure homes is allowed to survive. I think those are the words. Thanks for the treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162512	You're welcome. But it is not over yet, there are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162518	I owe you, sir. Jacob Mark had some kind of response or reaction, and I would also like to include Mrs Lotte Rod, because a few years ago, Jydske West Coast had such a summer joke, where you had to put forward a bill a little wider than you might normally do in here, and I lost the competition to Mrs Lotte Rod, and I always regret to lose, but it was really good, because what I lost to was that Mrs Lotte Rod suggested that wild scumbag sites should be reinstated, and that struck my proposal to reinstate the 13 scale. And it's okay to lose to such a good proposal. When I bring it up, it's because this whole thing about ending these wild games and having fun and so on, I think it would actually be solved by a conference like this. I think that if you do not plan such a work very carefully, the premise will just be: yes, but there are no things that must be higher than this, because then you can fall down and get hurt, and it all has to be something that you paint with water color etc. So the matter of where the junkyards went and why they had to be sacrificed would also have to be looked at, because that is also part of it, according to the rapporteur's speech made by Mrs Lotte Rod. So it certainly has to be thoroughly prepared so that it will not be Miss Prysselius who wins.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162640	I think that is a good example of how a debate could be held after a parliamentary election, because I am actually listening to us want the same thing. Something I have been concerned about, including from my own block, if we can talk about political blocs, is that there has been a tendency for leisure time to be instrumentalised and said that now you have 1 hour at school, more than it has been marked by leisure time. I don't think you can put free time on schedule like that. So the strengthening of leisure facilities must not be an instrumentalisation of leisure time, but a strengthening of the possibility of having real leisure time, but a good framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162725	Just to make sure that I have understood the comment correctly, is it so that there will be a need for some form of unbureaucratic free time or an elaborate free time, because a bureaucratic or a djøf-oriented leisure is very sad?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162740	I fully agree that it must be non-bureaucratic, but just to give an example: if you are to experience the free play that is in leisure homes or sfos, it requires you to be willing to pay for having your child there, and there I think it is a shame if there are children who cannot go into leisure because it has become too expensive, and that is one of the things. Some of the things I think should be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162801	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162803	Thank you, and also thank the SF rapporteur, for again mentioning the importance of perhaps also getting to grips with this debate after an election. I have to repeat, as I said from the platform, that ensuring that there are still different types of offers, whether they are self-serving or private or, for that matter, public, is at least one of the concerns of the Left, and that is why I think it is important that we get to grips with this. Right now, it is actually the case that the City of Copenhagen is turning up the user fee under the aegis of the SFO, that is to say in the clubs, and that is why I believe that it is also important, in relation to exactly what the SF's rapporteur also mentioned in one of the questions relating to the economic aspect itself, that it is also important that we get that part of it when we look at this. I would just like to hear what the SF rapporteur has to say about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162900	I would just like to say that I think it is wonderful that the rapporteur from the Left is aware of the problem that arises when you just have user charges as an opportunity to screw up, and that is what is happening right now, because there is that bias between the club law and the day-off law, where there is a ceiling, and then the sfos where there is no ceiling. I believe that some form of equality should be discussed after a choice, and I believe that there should be a ceiling on how much user charges should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425162932	So I would just like to ask at the end: will the SF possibly be involved in merging the various laws so that, frankly, there is a clean-up? Because I can at least remember back from the time when I myself sat and administered these areas of law, that I thought it was a little crazy that we had a sfo-law in one place and a club law in the other place, and that there were things that were somehow almost contradictory. Is it also a thought that SF has in relation to getting cleaned up and perhaps getting one law made that deals with it all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163008	Well, I actually like the idea that you have both self-serving offers, but also have the classic municipal offers. And it may be contained in a single law it may also be that it has to be in different laws, but that there is a better parallelism between them, that is, that there is more logic in them than there is today. I think we should discuss this and I am glad that the Left will also discuss it. And that is exactly what could have been obtained if we had voted in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163031	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. No one else seems to want to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163053	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Danish Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163122	With motion for a resolution B 114, the authors of the Danish People's Party wish to require the government to submit a legislative proposal to clarify the law on the collection of children's certificates in connection with the recruitment of staff, etc., so that it is clear from the law that the child's certificate must contain information on certain sex crimes committed against children under 15 years of age in the last 10 years in order to be valid, provided that, for persons who have not yet reached the age of 25, a certificate which dates back to the 15th year of the person is sufficient, provided that he has resided in Denmark for the last 10 years. First of all, let me stress that the government naturally shares the intention to protect our children from sexual abuse. Like the proposers, the government is very concerned that our children and young people can travel safely both in schools and institutions and in their leisure activities. The children's certificate is a very good tool because it contributes to the overall information that the recruiting authority has about the person considering hiring or associating as a volunteer. The child certificate is a good tool. And it is important that we continue to look at whether the children's certificate rules have been set up well enough. We did so by 2018 at the latest, where we made a change of announcement to avoid any doubt about companies on e.g. The film area also has to obtain children's certificates. However, the rules need to make sense, and we should not tighten just to tighten, let alone if this means that we will introduce barriers with new rules that create some other major problems. And I believe that the balance has been tipped off in the proposal from the Danish People's Party. The proposal corresponds in substance to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party B 72 in February 2016 and its amendments. The proposal with amendments was then rejected by all parties of the Folketing, with the exception of the Danish People's Party. What is new from the proposal discussed in 2016 is that the proposers have taken into account from the outset the consequences of the wording of B 72, which cut off all persons under 25 years of age from working with children and young people under 15 years of age. The concerns raised by the government in dealing with B 72 have been and now three years have passed. The Government continues to believe that the proposal will have far-reaching negative consequences for employment in the field of children and the number of volunteers in sport and association. This applies both to young Danes and to integrating refugees and family members into Danish society, so that they can understand Danish values. As the rules are today, the Children's Certificate Act makes it compulsory for authorities, companies and associations to obtain a children's certificate when employing or employing a person who must have direct contact with children under the age of 15. The scheme covers both volunteers and employees, including educators and pedagogues in day care institutions and leisure schemes, day care providers, foster families, staff at 24-hour institutions and social pedagogical residences, teachers and staff in schools with pupils under the age of 15, lifeguards in swimming halls, coaches and scout managers. The problems with the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party are as follows: the requirement that a child certificate should go back 10 years in time to be valid will, as a rule, mean that no one who has not lived in Denmark for the last 10 years, regardless of nationality, can be employed in a post involving contact with children under the age of 15. It will also include Danes who have lived abroad for a period within the last 10 years. Although the proposal allows Danes who have resided abroad, or foreign nationals who come to Denmark, to present a corresponding certificate from their country of origin and thus comply with the Danish rules, it does not solve the problem. In addition, there may be fundamental differences between criminal offences committed by countries. So what will be punishable in Denmark will not necessarily be punishable in other countries. A child certificate can never stand alone, nor has it ever been the intention of child certificates. There must always be an overall assessment of a person, whether it is an authority that hires a person for a kindergarten, an association that engages a volunteer, or a company that hires a person to deal with children. Therefore, in connection with the treatment of B 72, the government went into dialogue with the National Association of Municipalities, which in the autumn of 2016 issued inspirational material to the municipalities for the recruitment of people with shorter stays in Denmark. The inspirational material contains procedures and attention points based on experience and dialogue with a number of municipalities, which make company-oriented offers for e.g.: refugees, family members, EU citizens and Danes who have been living abroad for a number of years. It is precisely through the dissemination of the good examples that we already have that we protect children and young people as best we can, but also at the same time ensure the recruitment and employment of competent staff in the field of children and in society, which is so vital to our society. All in all, the government considers that the proposal is not the right way to address this very important issue, i.e. how we can best ensure that there is no sexual abuse against our children. On the contrary, the proposal creates some fundamental problems with how our voluntary association life can function and with integrating foreigners into our society in relation to our values. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The government, of course, recognises and is pleased that the municipalities and sports and associations have already found good solutions to solve the problem. And that is why, in conclusion, I would like to stress once again that a child certificate should never be left alone. The child attestation is a tool that complements the employer's organisation of work, including how best to ensure the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163747	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163751	Thank you very much and thank you for your comment. It is just to make it clear: no one has ever said that the child certificate should stand alone, and I do not think any of us think that would be a good idea either. The Minister says that we must not create barriers to who can be employed and that this should not have any consequences in terms of employment, but the child certificate does so today. After all, it creates a barrier to who can be employed. But the whole idea behind the children's certificate is precisely to exclude a certain group of people from employment. So I would just like to ask: does the Minister feel quite confident that people are being hired who do not have a child certificate in principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163833	It would be nice if we could get child certificates on everyone, but we just have to see that this is not possible and that with this proposal we will also exclude Danish young people who are staying abroad for a period of time and then come back to Denmark. Of course, children's certificates are intended to create barriers, but they must, of course, create barriers in relation to people who have committed offences against children and so that we can prevent them from getting there. It's an illusion to think that the child certificate can stand alone. It can't. Once you have to be the first if you want to commit an assault. Secondly, the serious problem here is that it creates real problems with young people who want to enter and work in our institutions, either as volunteers or as employees. When I stress that the child certificate cannot stand alone, it is because it cannot. Even the fact that a person who wants to work as a volunteer or as an employee has a clean record of children without comments will not be a guarantee that this person will not be able to commit this kind of atrocities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425163942	That is absolutely right, and that is why we need to use everything we can to prevent that situation from occurring. So I simply have another question: are parents out in the day-to-day offerings informed that there are actually staff who do not have a child's certificate? Is that something they know?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164003	I am not going to tell you what is going on in the day-care institutions, but I would think that there are a lot of things that parents do not tell their parents about when they deliver their children. What is important to reassure parents is that every effort is made from the place in question to ensure that someone or volunteers who have committed child abuse are not hired. That's the thing that goes backwards. What goes forward in relation to the individual place of employment or the individual association is, of course, that one must constantly be aware of and vigilant about what is going on. A child's certificate doesn't guarantee against that. I think the children's certificates are a very good tool, but you have to deal with the fact that child certificates cannot stand alone. Then you will have to deal with the fact that, if you make the demands of the Danish People's Party with this proposal, there will be problems in excluding a large number of people, both Danes, other EU citizens and people who come from other parts of the world, from engaging or being employed in institutions, companies and associations in Denmark, and I really think that is a high price, which will not in itself guarantee against abuse either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164118	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164122	Thank you. I think these were very thoughtful arguments put forward by the Minister. Because it is quite right, as the Minister says, that the possession of a child certificate is not an expression of the fact that child abuse cannot be committed, nor is it an expression of the fact that children have not been abused. It's just an expression that you haven't been discovered in it. I would therefore like the Minister to deal a little with that, if not this much discussion about child certificates in fact risks creating a false security. We agree that child certificates are a good thing to have, because it is a tool among many others. But if so much attention is focused on it and it gets very detailed and it has to be some specific certificates and they have to be filled out in a certain way, or else they don't work out the whole focus... it really risks creating a false security in the institutions, which will mean more abuse of children than would otherwise have been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164225	I fully agree with that is a risk that is present, which is why it is all about good management, but it is also about vigilant employees and vigilant parents and that there is an awareness of what is going on in everyday life. However, I think that the whole discussion on child certificates and the fact that we have had child certificates have certainly helped to raise awareness of what is going on. That's one of them. Therefore, we have sharpened the wordings about child certificates in relation to creative professions such as the film industry and elsewhere. But again, I fully agree that it is not a guarantee of anything, and it should not be a sleeping pillow, which means that you close your eyes and are not aware of what is going on in everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164305	The questioner? Thank you to the Minister and welcome to Mr. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164316	I, too, would like to start by saying that there should of course be no doubt that the safety of children in our public and private institutions is something we need to weigh very high so that parents can safely deliver their children in crèches and schools, for football training and other types of activities, and that was one of the reasons why we introduced the Children's Certificate Act in 2005 and that we have also expanded it since, as the Minister said, in relation to, among other things. The film industry and the creative professions. I am also absolutely convinced that the Danish People's Party's proposal is intended to try to extend this protection for children, but I must also say from the Social Democrats that we do not believe that the consequences of the Danish People's Party's proposals can justify the introduction of such a system. There is also reason to say that we have actually dealt with this proposal for a couple of parliamentary assemblies since, in fact, exactly this proposal at the time, just put forward as a proposal with an amendment and in which I believe that all the parties of the Folketing rejected the proposal. We do so again and actually with some of the same starting points, as the Minister for Culture has already explained here, namely that this proposal will make it virtually impossible for Danish citizens who have resided abroad for shorter or longer periods, to come home and get jobs in the area of children and young people, or to participate in the life of associations. This will also mean that, in practice, foreign nationals cannot be recruited for those jobs either, since there are virtually no similar existing schemes in other countries, and that means that citizens from, and now we can just mention our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Norway, Finland, will not be able to come here and get work as educators and teachers, or be football trainers, etc. So the consequences of the proposal are far too great in relation to the minimal extra security that this could provide. For here too I agree that it is no guarantee in itself that a child certificate has been obtained. It has to be followed up by policies in the institutions, in relation to how to hire staff, to look at their background. In fact, KL has, as a consequence of the discussion we had in 2016, sent out quite extensive material to the institutions with instructions on how to do this better when these appointments are to take place. So our starting point is that we should not change the children's certificate law in this way, as has been suggested, but that we should of course take part in a discussion about whether we can otherwise help to strengthen the safety of children and young people, which I also experience is the intention of the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164658	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164702	Thank you. And thank you for those, despite the lack of support, despite all the nice comments made by the rapporteur. I mean, it just takes one more assault, and then you've kind of ruined a child's life and a family's life. It is mentioned several times that it would have far-reaching consequences and, indeed, it would undoubtedly have, and there would be a large number of people who would be excluded, and certainly none of them would commit abuse. But we also know how cunning these people are. They will find out where the children are. Unfortunately, we have soon seen numerous examples of this despite monitoring and other measures, and that is why we have at least the concern that, in principle, people are walking around who have not handed in the child certificate. And no, it certainly cannot stand alone, but that means in practice that in those cases we leave them out. Is it really so much more important for the rapporteur than to prevent just one abuse?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164810	One abuse is one abuse too much. I don't think anyone in this room disagrees with you and that's why it's also about finding the right tools to prevent it from happening. We do not believe in a tool that will mean that many, many thousands of Danes, Norwegians, Finns, Swedes and, incidentally, others who might come here cannot work in the area. We believe that the way to go is for the institutions and associations to become more aware of the behaviour of this type of person and to be better placed to spot these types of abuse. It has clearly emerged that when it is possible to do so, we also have the opportunity to stop this type of person, and that is the path that Social Democrats think we should take.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164909	We do not, in fact, disagree with that path either. Now it was just like this that we thought we could make a difference. But now there are elections, and it is a little obvious to ask: will the Social Democrats be prepared to see if there was a golden middle way to go, in spite of everything, to tighten up a little in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425164931	Social democracy is interested in finding together all the possible ways of strengthening safety and preventing abuse of children and young people in institutions and associations. We just need to find the right ways and not someone who places many, many more obstacles in the way of a lot of people at home, and this is the kind of proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here, and therefore we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165004	Thank you, sir. Mogens Jensen. Is there a Leftman present? There isn't. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. I didn't dare ask for an old liberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165028	For Enhedslisten it is incredibly important that children in municipal offers and children in general be protected in the care of adults. But we must honestly say that we are a little in doubt whether that is also the purpose of this proposal from DF, or whether it is more about preventing people with a foreign background or people who have been living abroad from working with children, at least for the first many years they are staying in Denmark. The reason for this is that children's certificates are only one element of the overall assessment, which should be the basis for the recruitment of staff who have to work with children, and we therefore oppose the fact that if you cannot obtain a valid child certificate from before you came to Denmark, it must disqualify you from working with children. A missing child certificate must, of course, be included in the overall assessment of whether an applicant can be recruited, but to make it an ultimate requirement we cannot support. It is because it is important to stress once again that a child certificate is no guarantee whatsoever against abuse. In the argument, it almost sounds like if people just have a child certificate that is many years old, then there is some security against abuse. But it's wrong. As the Minister also said, people who have not committed any abuse before and obtained a child's certificate on the right conditions can, first of all, suddenly commit an assault. It's happening. Secondly, the test is merely an expression of the fact that one has not been discovered. And there is the risk, therefore, that if you attach too much value to it, it will actually be a false security. In addition to the children's certificate, therefore, there must be a large number of other mechanisms to ensure that children are not subjected to abuse. In this context, we have to say that proper standards are an absolutely crucial tool. We would very much like to cooperate with the Danish People's Party on minimum standards in day-care institutions, because proper standards in day-care institutions and everywhere else are something that is very central not to create spaces and opportunities for paedophiles to exploit the situation to commit an attack. We would very much like to be involved in that, and we think we will have a greater value. On the other hand, we are afraid that focusing so much on children's certificates leads away from what is the major task, namely to carry out an overall assessment. We do not want to take part in this and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165332	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165336	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard is right in many of the things he says. After all, the certificate does not guarantee that there has been no abuse or that there can be no abuse; it merely indicates that it has not been taken into account, and that is quite right. But that does not mean that we have to compromise with it. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165402	No, I don't agree with that. I do not agree with this, because it is only part of an overall assessment and if the cost of it is that there is a whole lot that cannot work as qualified persons and that, on the basis of all other parameters, is judged to be extremely appropriate, if they cannot be included in a context where there is the necessary standardisation, where there is the necessary control to ensure that there are no spaces to commit these abuses, then we do not think that in a given situation there is a lack of a child certificate, the crucial thing must be. As I have just said, and now the rapporteur has the opportunity to deal with this in his final speech: there is the problem that if we focus so much on the children's certificates, it means that there are some other things that we do not focus so much on, and then we get what I would call false security.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165453	I agree with the rapporteur that, of course, we should not have this, and it must never become a sleeping pillow. I'd like to comment on what Mr. Søren Søndergaard says with norms, because of course we agree that more hands make a difference. There are several eyes that can keep an eye on, and the children can be supervised. There we are, not at all disagree. I have just to say, and it is perhaps more of a comment, that what we have seen historically has actually been a lack of information from a management that has simply been given information, which has actually come from a fairly weak staff out there, disregarding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165525	But it doesn't really have anything to do with whether there is a child certificate, because the child certificate is linked to the job. I fully agree that we have seen this failure, and we must take action against it. This is a management failure, which must certainly be tackled. We are fully in favour of this, and we think that this should also be the focus of our attention so that it does not happen again in other situations. I just don't think that's a reason in itself for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165547	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, and welcome to Mr. Søndergaard. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165558	Thank you for that, President. If I am going to surprise you now, I will disagree with the Minister for Culture and I shall refrain from surprise. I actually agree with a significant part of that, sir. Søren Søndergaard has said. When the first discussions on a child's certificate appeared, I was actually in charge of voluntary association work. And at that time we actually expressed a considerable concern that it could become a false security that one thought that just there was a certificate, the attention that otherwise lies as a requirement for managers at all levels was not so necessary. And fortunately, the child certificate has become a good supplement. But it must never remove the obligation that the leader has, that is, that when you have leadership responsibility in a child's institution and society, etc., you actually have a responsibility for those who do volunteer work, that is to say, to pay attention to their behaviour. For those who tend to abuse children and young people often have a behavior in which, when we have heard of the examples, there have usually been statements like: Well, we were not aware of it, but we could actually see that there was perhaps something a little strange. And it is a leadership responsibility to take action against it, and there is no help for a child certificate. Because it doesn't start with you getting a loaded certificate or you can't get a certificate. It's only the day you've done something that there's gonna be a certificate that won't work. So it's already too late, so it's that attention that's absolutely crucial. But we have had children's certificates introduced, and I also believe that it has been helpful. But it just must never be what you lean on completely. There have already been comments on whether it is appropriate to go this way. It is not, and it has already been justified by several, so I do not need to prolong that. We cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165804	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. And there are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425165813	Thank you. I would say that I am speaking on behalf of Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist today, who is the Alternative's rapporteur in this area. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for an excellent speech which has just covered all aspects of what is problematic in this resolution. My only concern about that is that it was not the alternative that had written the speech • I would have been very proud of that. Children's certificates are, of course, a sensible protection that ensures that convicted vice-criminals cannot work with children under the age of 15. The information on an offence committed will be provided today on the child certificate for at least 10 years, and today it is the recruiting authority that decides whether to hire an employee, for example. in a children's institution. The rules on the children's certificate say that a child's certificate must be obtained. However, when the obligation to obtain it is respected, it is up to the recruiting authority to assess whether they wish to recruit the person concerned. A child certificate is therefore never alone, as has been stressed several times in this debate. And there is always a concrete and comprehensive assessment of whether a person is fit to work with children, regardless of whether it is a refugee, a young or an adult Danish citizen, and of course that should continue to be the case. It is very important that parents feel safe by sending their children to institutions, to leisure activities, etc., and that is precisely why, in the alternative, we believe that the individual places of employment are the best at assessing a person they want to hire. Of course, we must look after our children. However, the alternative is actually confident that the municipalities will exercise the necessary caution in these cases. We believe that employers, as a matter of course, are doing what they can to hire the right people for work involving contact with children. In addition, the alternative finds it disastrous to deprive a large group of people of the opportunity to engage in, for example. professions or sports associations in which minors are present. Such commitment is, in fact, what leads to positive and successful cooperation. Finally, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party how a Danish citizen who has been sent abroad will be presented with this resolution. Is that the case, for example? Doctors who are sent to Doctors Without Borders should not be able to work with children when they return to Denmark? This is just one example of people whom this proposal will exclude from working with children • people who are highly qualified to do just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170126	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. And the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170146	A year and a half ago, Asmeret came from Eritrea to Denmark. She did that through family reunification. She didn't know a word Danish, but it changed 6 months of language practice in a day care mother in Pigs in 2018. It was news that hit Denmark's Radio and that was shared really, very much on social media, and people said: "This is amazing." Asmeret said even about what happened: The day care mother taught me song for the children; we sang together, we ate together, and we cleaned up together. She always talked and talked, and after three months I began to understand and speak Danish. At the end of the internship they could even have deep conversations about Asmeret's life in Eritrea where she came from. And in my best opinion, the story of Asmeret would never have been a top story on Danish Radio if the resolution we are debating today had been in force law. Danish Refugee Aid is extremely concerned about the consequences of this proposal, because it will hit a lot of people. It will hit such people as Asmeret, who work in day-care institutions or internships in day-care institutions, but in fact it will also hit refugees who come into practice in such a way as road and park departments, because road and park departments also cut hedges and clean up the playgrounds. It will also affect refugees who come into practice in libraries, where children's certificates are also often required. And then I have not mentioned the concern at getting immigrant women into the labour market. This is something that the Danish People's Party tends to be concerned with. We are also in the SF, and I just want to say that the prospects for success, I think, are very long. It will be much harder if we cannot get them into anything that has to do with children and young people. KL is concerned about the proposal because a quarter of the local job market is about children and young people, and none of it will be possible to use refugees and immigrants for jobs any longer. Finally, if you talk about those who work with children on a daily basis, BUPL, who represents the educators, is against it. They say: We will lack skilled educators and skilled teaching assistants in the future. It would be very bad for us, they say, if refugees cannot work in day care institutions or be internship. Does this mean that it has just been easy to take a position on this proposal? No, it doesn't, because you're always afraid something's gonna happen to the kids. Especially if you let fear of what you don't know take over. Then you can be really afraid of it. However, as has been said, the child certificate is one tool of many people who can be used to ensure that nothing happens to our children. Some others are to ensure that there are enough adults out there in the day care institutions and this is something that the SF is actively fighting for and ensuring that there are mentoring arrangements, that there are screening conversations that you have in some municipalities. And in fact, I believe that it will be far more effective tools to ensure that what is happening in the day-to-day institutions is as it should be. So we cannot support this proposal, because those who work with children do not think it is a good idea, because it will have enormous consequences for the integration efforts in Denmark, and because I do not think it is the most effective tool for securing children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170530	First of all, I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170535	Thank you. In Denmark we have had examples of children's bride, i.e. where adult men are married to children. You can show a blank child certificate. Is that the kind of people that Mr. Jacob Mark is quite safe to let work with children and young people in Denmark, or could it be fine to say that there was a barrier in the way that they could get to work with children in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170603	There's such an expression I can hardly remember what it's like: Do you talk to the king or the kid in people? I think it's something like that. The son of a bitch, yes, thank you for your help. It is really about whether we believe in what is good or whether we believe in what is bad. There have been very few examples, yes, I can't think of one example that kind of supports the fear, Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen mentions. As regards addressing the concrete example of child bride, I have just said that there is a need for mentoring arrangements that are needed for screening interviews and there is a need for enough staff. If you do the work properly, if the municipalities do what they have to do, then you will also find out what it is for some people you hire and have internship, and I will not choose such a person.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170650	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170652	But with that argument, does SF mean that we should generally abolish the child certificate because we can just make screening conversations with people? Because that is obviously the best tool, and there is no reason to embarrass the police and all sorts of others with child certificates; then you can just stop it if it is such an ineffective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170710	No, when I think it makes sense to have it for the Danes, it is because it actually gives a true picture. Those who are innocent can show a clean child certificate, but that is not the case for refugees, because they come from countries where they cannot get a child certificate. But even as far as Danes are concerned, it is always the duty of every leader in the room to find out who it is that has to do with our children. So when it comes to Danes who have clean children's certificates, the certificate alone is not enough; it is also important to look at what it really is for some people we hire.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170743	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170745	Thank you. Does the rapporteur recognise that some of the refugees who have come here actually come from countries where there is a different view of how to behave in relation to young children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170800	I believe that the vast majority of people want children well. Will there then be those who cannot respect it, that is, children's rights? Yes, there is. And I don't want them working with kids. What, then, is the best way to ensure that they are not allowed to work with children? I believe that they are screened, that they are being interviewed, that there are mentors who ensure that even if they go through the screening interviews, they are being watched, in other words they are being watched to ensure that they do good for the children. I have to say that what I just mentioned is a good example of how things are going well out there. So what's the problem we're trying to solve? Is there a problem at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170853	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170856	At any rate, there is a problem the first time there has been an attack, and this is like pre-empting it at all. I know you can never do that one hundred percent, but I think we should do everything we possibly can. The rapporteur mentions that it is very good that the story of Asmeret could become a top story and that it is very good that she has learned the language and something like that. Conversely, I also know that the rapporteur advocates that we have high-quality day-to-day offers where there are trained staff, and a minimum in this respect must surely be that we can speak the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170926	I believe that there must be a minimum level which is good and ensures that there are enough adults. The Danish People's Party will not be involved in this. But when you have a minimum rating, I think it makes very good sense that some of the people who come to the country through internships both in day care institutions, in libraries and in the road and the park departments learn the Danish language. We are going to lack good people in today's institutions in the future. We're going to create 20%. more places in the day institutions in the future. Who's gonna take them if it doesn't, among other things. are the people to be integrated into our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425170959	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171012	Thank you, President. On behalf of our rapporteur, Merete Scheelsbeck, I should like to say the following: thank you to the Danish People's Party for submitting the proposal. However, we cannot support the proposal. In Denmark we have a legal requirement that crèches, kindergartens, leisure homes and voluntary associations obtain child certificates on persons who have direct contact with children. Child attestations shall ensure that the employee has not previously been punished for sexual abuse against children. It was a proposal made by the Conservatives, Brian Mikkelsen, when he was Minister of Culture. It was an important tool for securing our children back then, and it is also an important tool for securing our children today. However, a child certificate can never be left alone, nor has it ever been intended. An overall assessment of a person must always be made, whether it is an authority, a company or a voluntary association that engages with a person who has to deal with children. Although the Danish People's Party has changed slightly in terms of content in relation to motion for a resolution No. B 72, as the party put forward in February 2016, I agree with the Minister that this will have far-reaching negative consequences for employment in the field of children and the number of volunteers in sport and association, particularly in terms of integrating refugees and family members into the Danish labour market. Employment and self-sufficiency are the best way of achieving good integration, and employment is one of the best ways of providing good education. Children should preferably experience that their parents go to work, take responsibility for themselves, take part in society and take the Danish values to heart. They won't if their parents sit at home waiting for 10 years. The requirement that a child certificate should go back 10 years in order to be valid will in fact mean that no one who has not lived in Denmark in the last 10 years, regardless of nationality, will be able to be employed in a position where they are dealing with children under 15 years of age. In this context, we cannot support the proposal. I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left and say that they cannot support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171235	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171242	Thank you very much. Protecting our children must be the most important thing we can do, especially when they are in care in our day care, where parents must be able to deliver them safely in the knowledge that we will take care of them. Over time, we have seen cases of abuse that have each and every time terrified us, which have given rise to every single time that we have sat down and thought: Is there anything we can do better? It's ruined the kids and it's ruined their families. In other words, we must set all the sails to avoid such matters, and fortunately we are doing a great deal. The child certificate, as has been said, is an important tool in protecting children, and we must never compromise on this, and even if it cannot stand alone, it certainly cannot be spared either. I am sorry to say this, but what I am hearing today is that its value is neglected. You put great emphasis on the other things, and the child certificate is therefore less important, you have to understand. That's what I hear. It's not certain that's what you meant. In fact, hiring refugees in our day offer is the same as hiring people who have not handed in a child certificate, because the background of a fugitive cannot be fully explained, and we in the Danish People's Party are actually really concerned about this, and we are really concerned about the choice of hiring refugees as a kind of integration project in our day offer. Moreover, there are constant critical voices that there are not enough educators and that trained staff provide high-quality day-to-day services, which is in no way consistent with hiring people who do not speak the language. For language and language development are crucial for our children. Furthermore, we do not think it is right for refugees to meet the same requirements as everyone else in this area. At least parents should be informed in the daily services concerned that there are people employed who do not meet the normal requirements, and then it must be up to parents to assess whether they find it safe to deliver their child every day. For us in the Danish People's Party, the safety of children is above all, and we do not believe that our day offer should be integration projects, and without an adequate child certificate we believe that the doors should be airtightly closed to our day offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171503	We thank the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171521	The debate is open. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171535	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's motion for a resolution B 124 which will require the government to introduce a principle of a minimum parliamentary membership of two-thirds majority for Danish participation in war, even if I will wait to conclude that I do not agree with the proposal. The government has read the proposal with great interest. Decisions to send Danish women and men to the hot spots of the world are among the heaviest that we take as politicians. That is why the government also supports the fundamental desire to seek as broad parliamentary support as possible for military broadcasts. It is therefore also a principle that the government has actually followed in practice during this period of government. However, the Government considers that there are a number of concrete elements in the resolution which make it impossible for us to support the specific proposal. Firstly, accepting the proposal would override a very important principle, namely that it is the prerogative of the current government to conduct its foreign and security policy at all times. In accordance with Paragraph 19 of the Constitution, the current government must: 2. obtain the consent of the Folketing when it comes to using military means of power. But we think that consent will, in principle, have to be obtained by a simple majority in the Folketing. In addition, the government considers that the proposal runs the risk of watering down the principle of qualified majority voting in the Folketing, which, moreover, is reserved in the Constitution for exceptional constitutional decisions on the surrender of sovereignty under Article 20 of the Constitution. Secondly, the proposal argues that a two-thirds majority principle is necessary in order to promote transparency. Furthermore, the motion for a resolution states that a principle of qualified majority voting in connection with Danish participation in war will mean that information and background knowledge will be discussed in a wider democratic forum than the narrowest possible. The motion for a resolution thus equates the principle of qualified majority voting with greater openness and sharing of information. The government does not agree with that. We are convinced that openness and information sharing are created through good and close cooperation with the Danish Parliament. It was also one of the key recommendations of the historical investigation which the government, together with the Folketing, is following up and which we have discussed. It is worth remembering that the Constitution already ensures today that decisions on Danish participation in armed conflicts are subject to a particularly thorough democratic discussion in the Folketing and in the Foreign Policy Name. Motions for resolutions on military contributions are thus discussed both in confidence in the Name and openly among the elected parliamentarians in the Folketing, the widest democratic forum in Denmark. There is therefore nothing in the present system that applies under the Constitution that prevents an in-depth, open and wide discussion of decisions on military contributions. At the same time, there is nothing in Mr. Holger K. Nielsen's motion for a resolution which, in the view of the government, will further promote openness. Thirdly, the motion for a resolution is unclear with regard to the qualified majority. It is not clear whether it is a qualified majority of all 179 members of the Folketing, which is in fact the principle used in voting on the surrender of sovereignty, or only a qualified majority of the members present. The fundamental desire for broad parliamentary support for war participation is a principle that the government has already implemented in practice, and we can be proud of that. But because of the elements just mentioned in the proposal, the government cannot support the resolution before us. However, I would like to stress once again that the government's agreement is in relation to the spirit of the proposal, and so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen for the presentation and also a thank you for the debate that I look forward to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171946	First of all, Mr President, there is a brief comment. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425171949	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his comments, and also the positive comments on the spirit of this proposal. The arguments against are, after all, very much based on constitutional arguments, in other words legal arguments in relation to the constitution. It is clear that this is also important enough. That is also one of the reasons why we have not formulated it here as the adoption of a law on this, because we cannot. For the Constitution has some very clear provisions on the general majority on these matters. We're all in on that. It is more about the code of conduct, if I may say so, an agreement and a commitment in relation to the Folketing that if you go to war, there must be a two-thirds majority. The background is the Iraq War. We know it is. To put it bluntly, it was disastrous that the then government, with Anders Fogh Rasmussen in the lead, rolled it through with a very, very small majority. Then the Minister says that this will not promote openness, but indeed, there is no doubt that if a government is forced to have a broad majority, it will also have to open negotiations with more parties than the narrow parliamentary majority, on which it may be driven. So I certainly believe that this will also promote openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172113	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172115	But I actually disagree with that. One can easily imagine the opposite situation, namely that there is a unanimous Parliament which wants to take a decision to send Denmark to war, theoretically, but almost like that without putting it directly deciding to have as little debate as possible about it as possible, including as little a democratic discussion about it as possible, because one might well know that this is a problematic discussion, and then one will keep the debate down. This situation can easily be imagined. This is not guaranteed by the fact that there is a requirement for a two-thirds majority. What is being secured is the individual members of parliament and ministers, in other words, that the current government is actively using the tools that we have today under the Constitution. I mean, it has to make sure that we have the open discussion. As I have said, I am glad that the times when we have had to make these decisions to send people away, during the time I have been a minister, we have clearly lived up to the principle that I actually share. I also believe that, in many ways, this is historic in the light of the problem that we are dealing with, among other things. in writing. - (FR) The resolution in relation to the war in Iraq has been postponed to the effect that it bears the penalty in itself if we do not have as wide a majority behind us as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172228	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172229	There is no doubt that lessons have been learned from the Iraq war, and I think that is fine, that is to say, efforts are being made to obtain a very broad majority. That was done before the Iraq War. In other words, it was said by Per Stig Møller in particular, when he was Foreign Minister, that he was investing in a very broad majority and that it should be based on a UN basis, as he called it. Still, you rolled it through. As he did not succeed in obtaining a wider majority behind the Iraq war decision, Anders Fogh Rasmussen rolled it through anyway, where he would otherwise have gone into further negotiations with other parties in the Folketing. That would have stopped that very, very quick decision that was made there. That is why I firmly believe that it is not a guarantee that there will be an open discussion. I am in favour of that, but there is much more scope for a much more democratic process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172328	Thank you. Then we'll get the minister's answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172329	The point of view, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has, of course, one can acknowledge that I also argue for it, but it comes with a price. It comes with a price that is virtually defined in relation to the Constitution, namely less room for manoeuvre for the current government, which has a prerogative to conduct foreign policy at all times. It is, of course, the price it brings, that is to say, a less maneuverable one, that we are talking about the future of situations in which, when we come further forward in history, we may be sorry that we have placed that limitation here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172412	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172414	I have to admit, I don't understand what's going on with the Constitution. For I think I remember that agreements have been reached on EU policy between the parties of the Folketing, which have completely put a majority decision out of effect. And then I think I remember that when the vote on the legal reservation was taken, it was actually done in that way that an alliance was made whereby even the smallest party in that alliance was given the opportunity to block new referendums. So the very principle of making a political agreement in the Folketing, which puts the second principle of the majority ruling out of effect, is quite possible. So it is perfectly possible to make such a political agreement here in the Folketing, which states that you want a majority unless you say that it was a violation to do so on EU issues, or unless you say that the issue of our relationship with the European Union is not very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172523	Well, you have some principles in the Folketing that you work for and that you can call gentleman agreements. Let us, for example: take the 2006 welfare settlement. The parties involved in that conciliation have agreed that this conciliation will not be broken unless there is one of the parties that says before an election that we would now like to step out of conciliation. There is, of course, the possibility that we can do so, that is to say that we are not now part of the conciliation. Then we start over after an election. Or we reserve the right to look at whether we can put together a different majority to go another way. I believe that the flexibility that one writes off here to go somewhere, on the basis of a historical example or two, has too high a price; there is too high a price in relation to going this very rigoristic path.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172612	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172613	So what the proposal says is not that a law should be adopted. It is a principle that must be introduced. And that is exactly the principle I mentioned when an agreement was reached on abolishing the Danish reservation of law. There, for an infinite period of time, the promise was made in the future, without the possibility of terminating it by means of an election, that it would be possible for those who entered into the agreement to be able to block referendums on new areas. That is what we had a huge discussion about here in Parliament. So why can we not do this when it comes to the question of participation in wars, if we wish to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172653	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172654	In principle, it is probably possible to think of a model where it is an option. I'm just saying that the price you pay is way too high. I think it is a very, very dangerous clue to go down, that because you have had bad experiences, those who didn't think it was a good idea to make that decision, then you should deduce from there that we should introduce a principle that applies forever. I think that's a really, really dangerous way to go. I would rather go the way that I myself have chosen as Foreign Minister, namely actually work according to the principle that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen wants to be knelt in this way, namely that there must be a broad majority behind it, preferably over two-thirds majority. I've been working for that, and I've lived up to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172735	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's speeches. It's first, sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425172755	The proposal from the SF is that we lay down a principle of parliamentary decision-making at a minimum of two-thirds majority for Danish war participation. The proposal has been put forward with the noble aim, it must be said: to promote transparency of decisions as comprehensive as sending Denmark to war, since the principle, it goes on to say, will mean that information and background knowledge must be discussed in a wider democratic forum than the narrowest possible forum. It is, in particular, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council mentioned it. Holger K. Nielsen also in one of his questions before, the narrow decision to participate in the first Iraq war and the circumstances surrounding it. With the explanation of the Danish war participation it is documented that the decision in the Folketing at that time was made on the basis of information to the Folketing, which was contrary to what the government knew. Other information was tightened while still other information was not disclosed. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. The question then is whether the requirement for a two-thirds majority in the Folketing will change that. It is already laid down in the Constitution that the use of our military, except if we are even attacked, must be dealt with in this Chamber. I am not sure that it is the right medicine that is prescribed in the resolution, in other words that it is the way to achieve the objective of greater openness. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats support this proposal. Already with the government base of the S-SF-RV government in 2011, we established:... it must be a clear principle that Danish soldiers can only be deployed in international military operations with the support of at least two thirds of the Folketing. There is, after all, a principle behind that wording: the desire for legitimacy to use the most potent tool in the foreign policy toolbox at all, namely our military. It is a legitimacy which must stand by a broad majority of two thirds in the Folketing, as everything else is equal, and that is the idea behind it, representing a broad majority of the population and thus a solid Danish desire to use the military tool. And it is a legitimacy which can also mean something else, namely that the young men and women we send forth, knowing that they risk scars on body and soul, some of them perhaps never to come home, should know that they have the support and support of the Danish people. For these reasons, we can support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173045	Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173054	Thank you. There is no doubt that, as a starting point, it is always reasonable that there is a broad majority behind decisions on Danish participation in war. It is also reasonable that there is a broad majority behind financial laws and all other laws. As far as everything we do in here is concerned, it would be desirable for there to be agreement among the representatives of the Danish people. So the purpose is basically noble enough. But what is being proposed? It is proposed that there should be a two-thirds majority in favour of sending Danish soldiers. How can we clarify whether we have a two-thirds majority? The only way to do that is to put it in the Chamber. And if you then get a majority on a single mandate in the Parliament, then you will have introduced a principle that a government must act contrary to the majority of the Folketing. It's the other way around. Normally, we tend to feel that it is an advantage if the government adheres to the majority in the Folketing. So unless you want to change the constitution, you come against a fundamental principle of how we run this country. Obviously, we cannot support this in the Danish People's Party. Then you can also ask yourself whether it is reasonable and reasonable that a minority should be able to rule over the majority of the Folketing on this issue. I don't think so. It is the case that in military tactics it is sometimes the best defense to deliver an attack before, as it were, taking the fight on your own soil. And if you live by this principle, you give a minority in the Folketing the opportunity to prevent a majority from defending Denmark against an attack by using the military-tactical tool, which is a preventative attack. I think that as someone who, in everything I do, strives and wants to defend and protect Denmark, would be a very bad principle to kneel in this Chamber. So, although I think it is of course desirable if most decisions in this Chamber are taken by a broad majority, I think it would be a wrong decision to impose such strict rules on itself in order to be able to make the necessary decisions on the security of the empire.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173428	First of all, I should like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173431	I am not aware that preventive attacks are something that plays a major role in Danish military doctrines, but Mr. Jeppe Jamesen may explain more about what he thinks about there. This is somewhat unclear in my opinion. I know, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen is very concerned about the circumstances of the defense, and he himself has shown a background there, as he has said on numerous occasions. Does he not think that it is irresponsible, for the sake of the soldiers, that they should be sent out at risk of life and limbs and at the risk of scarring the soul with a small majority behind them? Is it not extremely important that when we in the Danish Parliament send young Danish men to war, they have a guarantee that there is solid support for what they are doing, instead of their work being constantly the subject of political discussions, doubts and so on.? Isn't that a big advantage? That is why the Iraq war was so disastrous because there was not this large majority behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173543	Thank you. Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173544	I do not think that my reply will allow me to elaborate on the doctrine of what a preventive attack is and how to use it, but I would like to reply to the second part. When I was in Kosovo myself, I cannot recall having held a single conversation with any of the people with whom I was sent about whether 90, 115 or 179 Members had voted in favour of our mission. It is simply not something I have ever discussed with any soldiers, i.e. whether there were x number of members of parliament who had voted in favour of the mandate that had now been taken off. I simply cannot recall that I have ever experienced it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173624	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173626	In other words, the Danish People's Party believes that it does not matter whether there is a large majority behind it. I think that is strange and directly irresponsible. For everyone can tell themselves that when we send young men out as soldiers, they surely also have a requirement that there is reasonable certainty as to what they are going to do and what they are not going to do, and that it is therefore inappropriate if there is only a small majority behind it. In relation to preventive attacks, one imagines preventive attacks on Russia, or what is the Danish People's Party imagined there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173705	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173706	I do not imagine any specific struggles, I just imagine that it is a tool that can be used, and I think it is sensible to keep that card on hand. And no, I do not think it is worthless that many people are behind a proposal; I do not think so, and I have not said that at any time. I'm just saying that as a former soldier, as a veteran, I don't remember it being something that has meant a great deal. What determines whether you want to leave on a mission is whether you can see yourself in the purpose of the mission. That is what this is all about as a soldier, and I can of course see how difficult it is for such a real pacifist as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173749	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173751	Now I hope that the rapporteur will forgive me for my poor military experience, which dates back to the time of the Bornholm Guard several decades ago, but I would like the rapporteur to try to elaborate on the idea that preventive attacks should be adopted in the Folketing. Is this something that the rapporteur has some historical example of, that is to say, that a preventive attack has been discussed at two readings in the Folketing and then to initiate it, whether it has been by a one-vote majority or by a qualified majority?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173831-2	No, there are a lot of things that have not necessarily been dealt with in the Folketing in the past, but which can and if we are going to elaborate on it, I think we will have a rather long discussion here during the night, i.e. if I am going to give examples of everything the Folketing can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173850	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173851	Then I just have to ask whether it is part of the rapporteur's military training that one can imagine a military pre-emptive attack on an enemy who first has to go through two readings in the Folketing, and thus probably will have been announced many, many days in advance. It's just to understand the quality of military training in the Danish system. Is this something you operate with, that is to say, to make preventative attacks that have been announced weeks in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173924	Now it is not the case that the defence decides who to attack or when to attack. I don't know if sir. Søren Søndergaard is not aware of how things work in this country, but it is not the case that if a lieutenant at some regiment decides to launch some kind of attack on another country, he can do so. Well, what do you imagine is going on in this kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173950	Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425173952	Thank you. I hear the argument, and I know what the rapporteur's military past is. In fact, I believe that the rapporteur misses the dial when he suggests that this does not matter to our soldiers. I simply believe that avoiding domestic clashes, the fact that there is tranquillity on the political scene here at home, the fact that there is stability, means something for those who have been sent out, but certainly also for the spouses of those who have been sent out here at home, and indeed for the children of those who have been sent out, who must feel a sense of security knowing that the people we have sent out have very broad support in the Folketing. I find it disappointing that the Danish People's Party cannot see the need to give our soldiers the widest possible support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174052	I can rely on the fact that it was by no means difficult to recruit soldiers for the Iraq war, despite the fact that it had a narrow majority behind it. There were plenty of soldiers who wanted to participate in the Iraq war, despite the fact that there was no two-thirds majority behind the decision. And there are many Iraqi veterans who are still very proud of their efforts and who feel that they made a difference, despite the fact that there were a large number of members of parliament who did not think their efforts were so valuable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174121	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174122	There are many who have laid their backs and bodies to the effect that we have subsequently developed the caretaker of the veterans whom they did not have at that time and to whom the rapporteur shows indifference. However, I think that the rapporteur owes it to answer something else, namely whether it is not right now that the rapporteur wisely made himself aware of the basic law that a defence of Denmark, a defence against an attack on Denmark, does not require the approval of the Danish Parliament at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174153	First of all, it is extremely unpleasant to have to hear from the Socialists that the Danish People's Party does not care about the veterans. In the defence conciliation negotiations we conducted, the Danish People's Party was the banner leader for the veterans to be part of the defence settlement, not with much help from the Social Democrats in this respect. It is simply a completely unreasonable attack to hear from Mr. Nick Hækkerup's side. No, if you want to attack another country to prevent an attack, that is not the same as defending yourself on your own soil. These are two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174238	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174248	Thank you. I have to start by saying that I pulled the release number, but unfortunately I didn't take the release number today. I am speaking on behalf of Michael Aastrup Jensen, our rapporteur in this area. One of the most far-reaching decisions one can make as a parliamentarian is to send Danish soldiers to war. It is not an easy decision and always associated with great seriousness. That is the way it should be, and I think everyone agrees on that. Denmark is one of the countries that often contribute to international missions, including where it is dangerous, for example in Afghanistan. We have therefore committed ourselves to being extra thorough in preparing such far-reaching decisions, since with a parliamentary decision we potentially endanger the lives of Danish soldiers. That is why it is also an important debate which the SF has raised, although the Left does not agree with the resolution, to which I shall return. Nevertheless, it is extremely important to discuss how we deal with issues relating to the participation of Danish soldiers in international missions. In recent years, however, we have built up some experience in the field both in relation to soldiers sent out, but also in relation to how to handle returned soldiers with scars on their bodies and souls. The subject has again become topical after the analysis of Danish war participation, which was published in February, a comprehensive investigation. In relation to the resolution itself, the Left sees a number of problems, although we have great sympathy for the idea behind it, namely that we must ensure as many Danes, as many Members of Parliament as possible, behind a decision to go to war. According to the Constitution, it is the government's prerogative to conduct Denmark's foreign and security policy. By introducing a requirement for a qualified majority, that principle may be watered down. A qualified majority is used in the exercise of sovereignty under Article 20 of the Constitution. It is the view of the Left that the use of qualified majority voting should continue to be reserved for these special cases. I am not, when I read the proposal here, quite a hundred percent sure of what it is you want. You want the Folketing to impose a two-thirds majority principle on the government, is it making a law? I heard earlier that it was not to adopt a law but to lay down a principle, as was said, in a political agreement. I suppose that's what you mean by an internal political agreement that the government should stand up to in this area. I'm not quite sure, though I don't doubt Mr. Søren Søndergaard's historical references to the EU that such an agreement is in accordance with the Constitution, but it is clear that it then binds politically the parties that have signed it. But that is something that has been described in the Constitution in the places where qualified majority voting is required, and that is not the case with participation in wars. What the proposers intend to do with the proposal is to give more openness to the decision to send Danish soldiers to war. As I said, this is an honourable ambition, but the question is whether the use of qualified majority voting will contribute to it. For the Left, it is difficult to see how a qualified majority will bring more openness into the process. On the other hand, good and confidential cooperation between government and parliament is important. If necessary, efforts can be made to strengthen this, but a qualified majority will make no difference in this respect as regards transparency. The decision to send Danish soldiers to war differs from the other decisions taken by the Folketing. Such decisions are discussed in confidence both in the Foreign Policy Name, which the Foreign Minister mentioned, and in full public opinion in the Folketing, so that all citizens can actually follow the parliamentary process. For the Left, it is important that there is as broad consensus as possible when Danish soldiers are deployed for armed missions. It gives peace to the soldiers' work both during and after the mission. However, it is not the Left's view that the use of a qualified majority would be beneficial in this respect, and therefore the Left cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174701	With regard to the legal sustainability of this, I should like to say that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is a lawyer and a lawyer, and he knows very well that in the 2011 government base between S, SF and RV this was actually part of the government base, and it was through all kinds of legal bodies, of course it was, so it shows that of course you can do this. No, we have deliberately formulated it not as a law, but as an obligation, as was done in that government basis. That government undertook that if we are going to war, there must be a two-thirds majority in the Folketing. You can always do that in a government basis, in an agreement or whatever you want. That is what is meant by this, and that is why I do not think that the legal arguments are valid. It's not that this is insecure in relation to the Constitution. This is perfectly compatible with the Constitution, because it is precisely a political agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174812	I almost knew I was gonna get hurt when I started saying it. I am not going to make myself an expert on the Constitution, but I believe that this is so that such an agreement will not be enforceable in the Danish courts, which will find that it is contrary to the Constitution, but when it has been written in and otherwise approved by senior lawyers, it is probably on the understanding that the parties were politically bound by it with the effect of violating such an agreement, a motion of censure could probably be put to the government. That's how I guess it's connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174846	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174848	Yeah, that's exactly right. This is, of course, very good proof that sometimes it is not always an advantage for lawyers to deal with politics, because there is therefore a difference between law and politics, and this is not, of course, a matter for a court of law. This isn't about courts and so on. It is a question of a political commitment which we in the Danish Parliament are obliging the government to vouch for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174918	I'll take note of that. I just have to say that this does not change the general position, namely that a general majority should be enough. Otherwise, we were in a situation where I think 119 Members could not implement this resolution. At least I find that unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174933	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425174949	In the Enhedslisten, we think this is a good proposal. If I had any doubts before going down here, I must admit that the speech by the Danish People's Party, which is not an insignificant party, but which is a large Danish party, about the possibility of initiating a preventive war against other countries, adopted in the Folketing, convinced me that if there are such ideas in large parties in the Folketing, it is perhaps very good that we have an agreement in the Folketing that it takes a larger majority than a single vote to put it into effect. I would like to say that I think this is an important proposal because it is a major decision to go to war. It is a great decision for the soldiers who are being sent out; it has been described. In other words, people are at risk of being killed, people are at risk of being maimed, people are at risk of suffering trauma, which they and society must live with in perhaps the rest of their lives. So sending people to war, sending the country to war, is a big decision. But it is also a big decision in that it is not something that can just be changed. I mean, it's not like you can just go into another country one day, take part in an invasion and then hold a parliamentary election and then say: well, then we pull out again. So, everyone knows that the smallest part of a war is to start it, it is to start it, whereas the biggest part of the problem of a war is to get out again. Firstly, once you have gone in, you have changed the situation on the ground; secondly, you have assumed a great responsibility for all those with whom you cooperate, which means that entering is something that binds governments at many stages in the future in relation to their freedom of action, regardless of how the voters vote, regardless of whether the voters want to stop it. We can only see the problems of getting out of Afghanistan as a very illustrative example of that. So this is a good argument for why there has to be some guarantee that there is real support that can also survive a little bit of gusts. Then it is the question whether it will lead to more openness, which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen attaches great importance to the comments. I would like to say that I am more doubtful. I do not believe that the broad support of government parties necessarily leads to more openness, at least not to public opinion, which leads to more openness towards those parties, but to public opinion, I have a great deal of doubt as to whether it can ensure that. Let us take a concrete example: the decision on the Danish aviation contribution to the fight against the Islamic State. There was a closeness in relation to which bandits Denmark could come to support, which still remains valid and where it cannot be discussed because it is subject to professional secrecy. So I think this is an example of the fact that we could not have a real political discussion, either here in the Folketing or in the people, about the real problems of that contribution. Then there are some more structural things that I think the report we have received, whether the Iraq war is also mentioned and that we should try to find ways of discussing how to deal with them. Well, there is, for example. the problem of the fact that it is often referred to as confidential information, but that those dealing with the specific draft war laws are the Defence Committee, and some of the information that the Board has is not automatically in the hands of all members of the Defence Committee. That is one example. Another example is how much information the Name itself receives. And that is where I think transparency requires more than this proposal, and I think we should come back to that. However, as I said, a majority is important. That is why we can support the proposal. Then it's the question, what exactly does qualified mean. Should it be two thirds, should it be something else, what should the precise term be? So this is a motion for a resolution, which is why I assume that what we are going to be using this motion for a resolution is to continue to work, and if we adopt it in this form, then we will have to draw up a specific draft agreement which will then be the subject of negotiations between the parties of the Folketing, and we will then be able to resolve any problems that may be discussed in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175454	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175456	To pursue Mr. Søren Søndergaard's stråmandsargumentation, I can ask Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard, why he believes that the government should act contrary to a majority of the wishes of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175508	I think it is natural, when you make decisions that bind for a long time in the future, as a war does, that you have an agreement among the parties in the Folketing that this kind of thing is only initiated if there is a broad majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175527	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175528	That was not an answer to my question. I asked why something that has been decided by a majority in the Parliamentary Assembly should be overruled by the government. Because that is what we want with this motion for a resolution, that is, if the majority is not sufficiently large, the government must act contrary to what the Folketing has instructed the government to do. Why does Enhedslisten think it should be the case that the government is acting against the majority of the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175555	No, the proposal will never be made in the Folketing. Unless there is the necessary support, the proposal will never be put forward. For no government will of course choose to vote down unless they will break that agreement and issue a new parliamentary election, so that will not happen. What is also said, however, is that there are agreements which go beyond a parliamentary term and which bind well in the future and where there is a majority in the Folketing which is actually opposed to an agreement that exists, we know from other areas too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175628	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425175636	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the SF and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to make this motion for a resolution. I would also like to thank Mr. Holger K. Nielsen at all. He has long ago announced that he will not be re-elected in the parliamentary elections, and no one knows when it will come, and then a glorious career will end in the service of Danish democracy. The last politician who helped to create the national compromise is grateful, and when you have seen transmissions from the British House of Commons lately, you can understand how statesmanlike everyone was at that time. I think a lot of people will remember that. Back to the proposal: there is no doubt that Danish war participation has been controversial in this century, not least in the case of the Iraq war. After all, it ended up creating a power vacuum in Iraq, and recently the American army concluded in a report that the only party that has benefited long-term from this power vacuum in Iraq was Iran, i.e. Iran, I repeat just in case. But what we are discussing is, of course, the question of making rash decisions, bad decisions. Would the Folketing be better at keeping Denmark out of reckless decisions? If I don't remember correctly, sir... Søren Søndergaard might say something about a little later on the Enhedslisten was on the verge of approving that Denmark went into the conflict in Libya. There was so much agreement that the situation of the people of Benghazi was intolerable, and there was a reason to invoke the principle of responsibility to protect, and out of my earpiece I hear that the Enhedslisten directly voted in favour of the idea that you should not rely too much on your memory, but it also created a power vacuum in Libya, and that power vacuum has also proved to be an incredibly dangerous situation that arose in many, many different ways that have destabilised large parts of West Africa with, as it were, unemployed warriors from Gaddafi's army. So a protection against reckless decisions, I do not think that the majority of the Folketing, whether 50% or 50%, is 51 per cent. or 66 per cent. We must avoid reckless decisions, but I think it is better for us to be concerned that we should avoid reckless decisions within the existing division of power that we have in Paragraph 19 (3) of the Constitution. 2 and then work on that basis to improve our ability to avoid bad decisions being made and for Denmark harmful decisions being taken. It's kind of the same with openness. I fully agree that greater openness is desirable in many situations where there are no state secrets or cooperation with other countries that should not be compromised and such things, but is the principle of two-thirds majority the right medicine in order to avoid bad decisions and in relation to more openness? I think that is more doubtful. So I would like to conclude by saying that we are very much aware of the issues which the SF and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is leaving, but we are not convinced that the right medicine is being prescribed and therefore we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180050	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are brief comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180055	I can fully confirm that the fact that there is a large majority behind it does not necessarily prevent bad decisions. We see that in a number of other areas too, so Mr. Henrik Dahl is absolutely right. However, just to clarify this with Libya, the Enhedslisten voted that planes should be sent in to defend the civilian population in Benghazi against attacks. What then happened was that, after a few days, the UN mandate was turned into a mandate to change the regime, after which the Enhedslisten withdrew its support. Some more should have done so too, and it has had disastrous consequences both in Libya and Africa as well as in international cooperation, because limited resolutions adopted by the UN can no longer be trusted because they can be turned into another purpose. But I can completely confirm and there Mr. Henrik Dahl thus trusts his memory ▪ that Enhedslisten voted to send a contribution to defend the civilian population in Benghazi.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180203	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180204	I'm sorry I made the mistake of trusting my memory, but it's a good thing we can sort this out. However, I am glad that we agree that a fairly large majority can also make a reckless decision, and I am not jealous of a generation of politicians to whom I do not belong, who have sat and had to consider whether this accountability to the protection situation existed. After all, there is a generation of politicians who have experienced Srebrenica, who have experienced Rwanda, and where, of course, they have rightly thought: should we have called for this accountability to protect? It's not easy. But there can also be a large majority feeling that yes, we are now doing so, and then it turns out that a chain of events is starting to create a vacuum of power. And a vacuum of power can at least be concluded, if you look at that in the last 15 to 20 years back in the Middle East, is one of the worst things you can imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180306	Thank you. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180309	To follow up on that, sir. Søren Søndergaard says it is quite correct, as Mr. Henrik Dahl says that this proposal does not prevent reckless decisions. That is absolutely correct. So, Libya, which is mentioned, is a very good example of this. No one was in any doubt that it was true when we made the decision on that day... even Enhedslisten voted in favour... and then it quickly turns out that the reality was a little different, and of course one should have had time to think about it a little more thoroughly. I agree with that. But it's still a lot of the Iraq War that's behind this, and Mr. Henrik Dahl did not admit that it was an epochal decision that was made there in 2003 when one joined the Iraq War, in relation to Danish foreign policy, Danish defence policy, the Danish defence, that Danish soldiers were sent out and came home in coffins, that one gained direct responsibility for chaos in the Middle East, that is that it was a very epoch-making decision that was made then, and that in this context, when one goes into such epoch-making decisions, it just does not go so far as to say that there is a small majority behind it? It just can't be that there is. When a country makes major decisions and that was also one of the reasons why I was very concerned about the national compromise, it is not acceptable for a small majority to roll over the large minority. This is just not acceptable, because there must be broader support behind the war participation, not least.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180442	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180444	In relation to the Iraq War, I am in the same comfortable position as a German born in 1946. Well, I wasn't a politician then; I can just stand and be guiltless. What I think was the biggest problem at the time was that there was a completely wrong thinking about regime change and the need for regime change. Yes, I do not know where the wrong thinking had come from, but the consequences of a power vacuum had not realized enough at that time. After all, it played a major role in relation to Syria, where it was said that we can have this great power vacuum, and it came anyway when you got Islamic State. But today we have just become wise enough to understand that almost at all costs we must avoid creating power vacuums because it is very, very dangerous situations that arise there. I do not know whether two thirds of the Folketing would have come this far in its thinking at that time. So that is why I say that I think it is more about improving thinking wherever it is required.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180554	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180556	It is quite true that it is no guarantee of anything. About the consequences, the historical study shows that there were notes on it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where it was pointed out. But it just didn't come out in the debate. It was not presented to the Folketing that it had the considerations about what a power vacuum could create, for example. Iranian influence in Iraq. All the consequences were not discussed, and one could do that, among other things. Because you knew you had a majority behind you. That's why Anders Fogh Rasmussen drove on so badly, because he wanted He wanted It's always not very healthy, but it may be necessary. A government must be able to rule with a small minority in a number of cases, but when it comes to participation in war it is not possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180700	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180703	I would very, very much like to discuss this whole issue. After all, for George Bush, the elderly, when he had freed Kuwait, it was probably because he was a professional diplomat, and he was well aware that this whole destabilization of Iraq was not something to embark on. His son had not had the same fine career in diplomacy and thought about things in a different way. So, of course, many unwise decisions have been taken. I have no doubt about that and it is not to make me amusing at the expense of the Danish Parliament, but I just do not think that the two-thirds majority in the Danish Parliament itself protects against bad decisions. I don't want to mention anything, but there's just no indication, I have to say, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180755	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. The next in line is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425180805	Thank you very much. I would like to add my thanks for the fact that this motion for a resolution has been tabled, and also for the enormous work that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has done in this Parliament over all the years really admirable, and thank you very much for it, as it unfortunately stops. Then I will say that I am speaking on behalf of Rasmus Nordqvist, who is our rapporteur in this area. I would like to begin by making a slight digression, on which one might think: what does that have to do with this proposal? However, I come to what it has to do with the proposal a little along the way. On Tuesday, in the Alternative Group Room, we had a new work of art inaugurated: a carpet that has been created by the artist recording sound waves from conversations that we in the parliamentary group have had on a number of important topics. The sound waves have been converted into a picture and woven into a carpet that illustrates that in the alternative we believe in the involvement of democracy. We believe that we must ask the important questions. We're gonna have the guts to have this conversation. That's what the weave represents. We design arguments, opinions and attitudes as a weaving process. And this is where the blanket enters into the discussion of war participation. Because when we send people on military action, we owe it to those people that we have asked the important questions. First, what is the purpose? And then, what are the consequences? We must and must respect the fact that it is a question of people and, when human lives are at stake, we must respect the democratic dialogue and process. Military action must not become a political chess game. Sending military forces into the field is a serious matter. The choice should therefore be made in the best way. The alternative is that the Folketing should always take these decisions by a qualified majority in order to secure the most democratic and most competent decision, although it is not always, of course, a guarantee that it will also be competent. Such a large decision must not be made by a narrow majority. It is irresponsible and not with respect for the lives at stake. Military operations in which Denmark participates and provides military assistance must be based on a clear basis of international law and a UN mandate. Danish defence policy is not meant to lead illegitimate wars of aggression, but is used to strengthen global stability and international legal architecture. After all, this is best ensured by the fact that a military contribution to international operations is so obvious that it can bring together a qualified majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181131	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181136	Thank you. I understand from the general political statements of the Alternative that the climate is the most important thing that we can deal with as politicians at all. Can we make climate legislation by a narrow majority, or should we also have a two-thirds majority for it? Or is war participation more important than climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181159	I believe that climate policy is not as controversial as going to war. That is why climate policy can be adopted by a narrow political majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181214	It is just because in her rapporteur's speech Mrs Sandbæk said that participation in war was so important that they required a large majority. However, I understand that decisions about the climate are not so important that they should have the same treatment as war participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181228	There is, of course, the similarity between war decisions and climate decisions that they involve a very large number of human lives. Because if we do not take the right climate decisions, we are faced with droughts, floods and natural disasters, which will have very, very high human costs and which will make the flows of refugees we have seen so far look like a small lego landscape. So I do not think that the climate is less important than war, but yet I would like to maintain that we can use a general majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181302	Thank you to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. And then it's sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181316	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to thank Mr. Holger K. Nielsen for many years of work here at Borgen. I can't wait to read his memoirs. They want to be historic, so thank you for your efforts. One of the hardest things, I think, by being a decision-maker here is actually sending young Danes out into the world to defend Denmark's interests and Denmark's security. It is the case today that Denmark's interests and Denmark's security are out in the world. And our young soldiers are making an enormous effort. They'll be praised when we meet with our allies, they're top pros. We are not only sending them to war, we are also sending them out to bring peace and stability, and at the moment we also have soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan who are training security forces to defend themselves in those countries. And it's important. The proposal made today by the SF to impose on the government a principle of a qualified majority in the Folketing when we send soldiers to war is a proposal in which I would say: we agree with the principle that, of course, there must be as large a majority as possible when we make that decision. It is important that as many parties as possible are involved. So, in principle, we are in favour of it. But that can be achieved by having a thorough democratic debate and discussion on these matters. So, in principle, it is a good idea, but we do not think it should be done in a way that makes it square and that there should be a two-thirds majority, otherwise it will not work. In our view, this is going to be far too square. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181527	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425181540	Thank you for the debate and also thank you for the nice words that have fallen over me. I'm glad. Now I've been sitting here for many years, and it's not that often you get so many nice words. I think I've almost had more nice words now than in the first 34 years I've been sitting here! So you don't want to sniff that out. I don't know when the Prime Minister will issue parliamentary elections... we'll all be waiting for and tipping on the table... but at least I can say that this is the last B proposal I'm making in my time here in Parliament. And it is very conscious that this is what this is all about because defence policy, foreign policy and security policy have played a major role in the way I have done politics. And since this is largely derived from the Iraq war, it is also connected with the fact that participation in the Iraq war is one of the most fundamental decisions taken here in the Folketing in my time here. As I have said before, it was an epoch-making decision that was made here in the Danish Parliament when we decided to conduct what Anders Fogh Rasmussen called an activist foreign policy. It really meant militaristic foreign policy, and in subsequent years Danish foreign policy became enormously militaristic. It was activist before Anders Fogh Rasmussen; it was also activist in the 1990s, in the 1980s, in the 1970s. Denmark has thus always pursued an activist foreign policy. The EEAS has been extremely active, sir. Nick Hækkerup's father, Per Hækkerup, was a tremendously active foreign minister in his time, but in other areas, in development policy, diplomacy and the work of international organisations. The new dimension is that the war participation comes in and in a very, very significant way not that we have not participated in wars before, because we did so in the 1990s under Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, and it is also something that is being dealt with by historians in a very good way, I think. But that was the hugely narrow majority in 2003, which I believe made a great impression on us. We had a long debate; we stood here all day during the third reading and repeatedly made clear that it was SF, it was Enhedslisten, it was the Radical Left, and it was the Social Democrats that it was unsustainable that the Prime Minister wanted to use this small majority. It was completely untenable because the Danish soldiers are entitled to have a broad majority behind them. We sent them out, and we didn't know then how violent it would be. We were some who warned against it and said: we are quite sure that soldiers will come home in body bags. Not everyone was fully aware that this could be the consequence of it. But that was the consequence of it. And it was the consequence that a chaos was created in Iraq and the whole Middle East, and it was therefore quite wrong that this very narrow majority should be used. I believe that when all countries make major decisions, they really must be aware that they do not run things through by a narrow majority. And I have told various minorities around the world: If you want to separate yourselves, you must have a broad majority behind you; you must have a great legitimacy behind you. I've told the Catalans, and I've told the Faroese. I have said: it is not acceptable for you to try to detach by a small majority. I have said to the British, to the Brexitians: if you want to get out, you have to get a broad majority behind the decision to be made, the agreement to be made. And that is so wrong that it has not been done in Britain. It was, as I said earlier, my own starting point after the 1992 referendum that we could not run through a hard line with such a small majority as was the case there, it would divide the population completely for many years to come. It just cannot be done, and that is why we need to think in a broad majority. I know that people are trying to get a broad majority when we are going to have military operations, and all respect for that is good enough. But it is precisely to prevent the situation that existed in 2003 when Anders Fogh Rasmussen did not give a damn. That is what the war investigation showed: Anders Fogh Rasmussen wanted to go to war with the United States in Iraq at all costs. He didn't give a shit about the consequences of it, he didn't care if there was a UN mandate; he just wanted to go. And at an early stage, he would do so at an early stage. So you might ask yourself: would a two-thirds majority have prevented it? No, it wouldn't. I totally agree with that. And that would not have prevented bad decisions, nor necessarily increased openness, but it would have ensured that Anders Fogh Rasmussen would have had to negotiate with the Social Democrats, at least as they had done before the final decision. There were long negotiations between Per Stig Møller and Mogens Lykketoft and Niels Helveg Petersen, but they ran out into the sand. And that is where the government at that time should have said to itself: 'Well, this is not going to work; we cannot go to war when the traditional foreign policy partners are not with us.' And that would have secured a fresh reflection on this whole project. So I definitely think it would have had an impact. But I also agree with all those who say that it is not a security against irresponsible decisions. Sir. Henrik Dahl had some very wise considerations about it, i.e. that it does not provide any certainty. And we mentioned earlier that, in relation to the Libya resolution, there was unanimity and that was a bad decision. We did not know that on the day we met it, nor could we know that we would, if I may say so, manipulate or twist the UN mandate afterwards. But it was probably something we should have discussed a little more thoroughly when we were so busy sending those planes off that night. I think we can certainly agree on that today, that is, that we should have done so. So it's pretty important that we do this. But I fully agree with Mr. Nick Hækkerup in what he says about respect for the soldiers. And I'm a little shocked that you in the Danish People's Party don't care about it. So, in all the discussions I have had with various ministers and governments, there has been a great deal of emphasis on the need for the soldiers to have secure political support. And the fact that you don't care about it is new to me. It may well be that there is one or two who are, but in general it has been the clear position of all governments, of all the defence ministers, of the army leadership, which I have also discussed these things a great deal with that it is bad if there is too narrow a majority; if there is too much uncertainty afterwards; if there is too much controversy about what people are doing. You can't prevent that from happening, but it'll give you greater security if there's a broad majority behind it. And that's what this is all about. As I said, it is very much derived from the bad Iraq decision in 2003 that historians have explained in detail in the report they have produced. We believe that this will give some sort of brake block if there are prime ministers or parliamentary majority who are in the process of doing something stupid, dragging Denmark into something that is unwise. And that is why we believe that this is a good proposal in relation to it. Thank you, sir. Nick Hækkerup, Mrs Ulla Sandbæk and Mr. Søren Søndergaard for the positive comments. And I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Martin Lidegaard and say that the Radicals can also support this proposal. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182426	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. I'm sorry, sir. Jeppe Jacobsen; it is far along in the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182431	Thank you. I find it strange that a man who has led a party who has wanted to cut our defenses throughout his lifetime should hear that he is the one who cares about the soldiers. This is a funny way of worrying about the soldiers, and I am quite sure that the soldiers who are in our defense do not feel that you care very much about them when you remove their equipment and fire their colleagues. The question to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is: How do you deal with this in concrete terms by finding out that there is a majority? As I see it, the only way to find out is to apply the rule of the Constitution that we should vote according to our own convictions, to put it down in the Assembly. And then the situation may arise that there is a majority in the Folketing with which the government must act in contradiction. Mr. Holger K. Nielsen that it makes sense for this to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182538	Just first to the slightly bitterly sweet remarks about SF's position on defence: we actually agreed to the defence settlement in 2009, and that was among other things. to provide better equipment for the soldiers in Afghanistan. I have always taken the view that one can be against the war in Afghanistan, but that the soldiers who are there must have proper equipment. So that remark doesn't bite. To that extent, it is clear that it cannot be decided by a vote here in the Danish Parliament, because then you are bound by that majority because the constitution is as it is. So that's something you have to figure out in advance. After all, this is about the government making sure that it has a two-thirds majority before submitting a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly. That's what this is all about. Can there be any technical mishaps? There may be, but we now manage this very well through the clearing arrangements we have, etc. So it is, of course, a question of ensuring in advance that there is a two-thirds majority before moving on to the Folketing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182645	Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182646	It is comical, of course, that the SF is talking about in the proposal, that it should ensure more openness, that in future the final decision on the participation of war should be taken in the corridors rather than in the Chamber; that it is therefore out there that you must decide whether you want to decide on it here and not in the Chamber. It does not in my optics give more openness about things. It is that you talk about corridors, and then it is only when you are just sure that you have a two-thirds majority that you put it forward. I do not see that this should mean more openness. I think it is an expression of the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182726	That is not the opposite. I find that hard to argue for. It is true, however, that this does not in itself guarantee transparency, and we have said so all along. What this is about is that it will force a future Anders Fogh Rasmussen to involve more parties than the parliamentary basis. In other words, he would not just be able to settle for the Danish People's Party in the future if he wanted to go to war in Iraq. I think that is quite important, even when you think about what Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen has said earlier today about what the Danish defence should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182803	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182813	I would just like to say a few words of thanks for the debate which Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has arranged for us to have today. It is an excellent fundamental debate that we need here in the Folketing and preferably more often than we do. I really think it's been rewarding. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to be more or less indulgent in the efforts made by Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen has done for the Danish people's government. There are very few people who can leave parliament and say that one has really been involved in writing Danish history. Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is in charge of finding the national compromise that has affected Danish politics ever since. It is very few of us who can subsequently say that we have made such a significant impression in addition to the work that has been done by Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen's side. So, regardless of disagreements in many areas, great respect for it and basically also an annoyance that it was so little time in the best job seen from my chair can virtually be obtained here in the Folketing, and I think we can agree on that, namely the possibility of being the country's foreign minister. But I would like to thank you very much for that effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182927	Thank you to the Secretary of State. As the thanks are now over and no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425182950	We are opening the debate, and we are opening the debate with the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183010	Thank you. The Enhedslisten and the Alternative have tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to amend the current guidelines on the place of birth of its passport and driving licence. The proposers believe that the individual should be able to determine more clearly the place of birth of the person's passport or driving licence, so that the place of birth can be indicated, regardless of the current official name of the place of birth. Before I come to the government's position on the proposal, I would like briefly to try to explain how the rules have been tightened up today and the considerations behind it. According to passport legislation, the National Police can lay down guidelines on the handling of passport applications by municipalities. The guidelines show, among other things, that information about the birth place of the passport applicant is automatically retrieved from the birth place field of the Central Register of Persons, what we call the CPR in daily speech. This scheme was introduced on 1 January 2012 at the request of the National Police. When the scheme was amended, it was first to provide information on the place of birth of the same person across different systems and, secondly, to reduce the risk of manual errors. Where it is important for the information to be given in the same way across different systems, this is due to the fact that otherwise doubts may arise as to the accuracy of the information. There may also be doubts as to whether the citizen is the person who he or she pretends to be. Exceptionally, it remains possible to indicate a place of birth in the passport which is different from the information in the field of birth registration in the CPR. This may happen if the municipality considers that the indication of a particular place of birth may result in the person not being able to travel or risk being detained abroad. As far as driving licences are concerned, it is basically the same thing. However, there is the difference that the birthplace of persons born abroad is not automatically indicated on the driving licence itself. The place of birth shall instead be indicated on the driving licence by the municipality with manual entry based on the place of birth which has been automatically transferred to the driving licence register from the CPR. Work is currently under way on the technical implementation of the procedure in the field of driving licences in order to avoid manual entry. The place of birth indicated by the passport and driving licence is therefore deducted from the CPR. People born abroad will, as a starting point of the CPR, register the country where the birth took place. The name of the place of birth registration in the CPR is the current name at the time of registration of the place where the birth registration authority is located. So it is not the name of the place that applied at the time of birth. Then it is the case that, according to the practice which currently applies to the indication of the place of birth registration in the CPR, a country must be recognised as the State of Denmark in order to be able to be designated as the place of birth registration. For a person such as: was born in one of the Palestinian territories, the municipality may, at the request of the person concerned, instead offer to register in the CPR the Middle East in the field of birth registration if the person concerned does not want Israel to appear. It will then be transferred to the passport and driver's license. It was such an attempt to explain how the systems are practically connected. With regard to the government's position on the resolution, I would like to begin by saying that this is not the first time that the issue of the place of birth registration has been discussed in the Folketing. It's turning into a classic, I think. As I recall, in my time at least I have experienced oral questions, consultations, questions and now the motion for a resolution on the subject by the same authors, so we must pay tribute to the persistence of the authors of the motions for resolutions. The Government continues to believe that there should be no change to the current guidelines on the indication of the place of birth in Danish passports and driving licences. In other words, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. In this context, it is important to bear in mind what the purpose of a passport is, firstly, that the authorities can ensure the identity of the person using the passport and, secondly, that the information contained in the passport is correct and accurate. The National Police have stated that it is their professional assessment that it will be associated with a number of disadvantages to introduce additional options in relation to the location of birth registration separately on the territory. Among other things: such a scheme would mean that the place of birth registration is not identical in passports and in CPR. The National Police have also stated that with the support of today's system, a change in the current system will mean that the passport manufacturer, a private company, will have to make changes manually. It considers the National Police to be inappropriate, as for security reasons it is aimed at limiting as much as possible the need for people to manually change information in an authority document. At the same time, the National Police estimate that manual updates will increase the risk of error detection. Driving licences are also widely used in a Danish context as a genuine identification document, and therefore the same conditions apply with regard to driving licences. To sum up briefly, it is essential for me, as Minister of Justice, that our credentials are secure and to be trusted. This assumes that the information is the same across systems and documents and that we limit the risk of manual errors as much as possible. When this is important, it is related to the fact that otherwise there may be doubts as to the accuracy of the information and whether the citizen is also the person who the citizen is pretending to be. I recognise that this is an issue that may arouse strong feelings among some, but in balancing considerations, the security of our documents of identification and their use to me as Minister of Justice is now more important on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183638	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183643	This is now the first time we have this debate in Parliament, I would just like to say. We have had it in committee and we have put questions to the Minister, and we thought that we could overcome the stupidity of ministers by taking the low level of debate. Now we have to take a resolution here, because red tape must be combated wherever it is found. Can the Minister explain to me, if an authority suggests that the place of birth or the place of birth of the Member State of origin or the place of birth of the Member State of origin, which identity is then in using the two concepts? And if you say to the citizen at the same time: you can choose between the Middle East and Israel what is it then you can use in the two things, when there is even an option, to identify that person? I also doubt that any of us in this House will be able to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183753	This whole discussion and I'm sorry if I repeat myself I just think we've had before. But that is enough because we have talked about it so many times that I also think we have had a case here. I know that these are a little the same arguments we are encountering. I know, sir. Christian Juhl thinks it's completely unreal, so stupid it's possible for the government to be in this case. However, we have the feeling that when the National Police come up with a clear recommendation that we should have uniformity, systemic uniformity, between what is in our CPR register and what is in our legitimation papers, I think it makes very good sense so that we do not have it in the way that we look someone up in the CPR, and there is such a person as being from one place, and in the passport he is from another. I don't think it should be like that. But if Mr. Christian Juhl can convince the minister responsible for the CPR that there must be ten other options, and the Minister says that this is also the view of the government, but then there will be those opportunities. I just want uniformity. I just want what it says in the CPR to be what it says in the papers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183905	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425183906	No, the Minister of Justice doesn't want uniformity. There are many examples that there are differences in this system and that there are local concerns. We have just received an example in Dagbladet Information today, where a Danish citizen in Prague gets a new passport. He says he wants Czechoslovakia to stand. Then the embassy down there says it's fine and that yes, we're making a passport in which it says Czechoslovakia. They use all the official computers to make the passport, and it says today Czechoslovakia. The old passport said Czech Republic. And as you know, Czechoslovakia no longer exists. That means that there is not even uniformity in the Minister's own system today. Well, then it's kind of ridiculous to talk about how it's supposed to stay that way. Wouldn't it be better to say that we're gonna do something like that? The Swedes. You have a uniform system, and I have described this in the comments on our proposal. It is quite simple and unbureaucratic. When abroad can handle such things, and when we have been able to do so in Denmark without modern IT systems, why can't we do so anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184014	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184015	Well, that's probably something you can have long, long debates about. I just have the clear view that when there is such a clear and clear recommendation from the National Police for security in our identification documents, that is to say that we are transferring from the CPR to our passport, that is what we are doing. And then, of course, there's a case, like Mr. Christian Juhl mentions, as I only know from it, Mr. Christian Juhl says, and I must of course look at what the content really is in it. Because I think that there should be uniformity in our documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184048	We thank the Minister for Justice. Then we start with the rapporteur's line. It is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, starting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184107	Thank you very much. The Minister for Justice has already adequately explained what the motion for a resolution is about and what challenges there are in this regard. We in the Social Democratic Party have followed this debate, and there is no doubt that when you look at the individual cases, you can easily understand the feelings that can be aroused when people experience that they cannot get the exact place of birth printed in their documents of identification, such as the Social Democrats. passport or driver's license. The resolution also has a concrete example. It's well described. It's sir. Kurt Jonas of Stettin, born in 1941, who cannot have that place of birth printed in his driving licence and passport. You can easily understand the frustration and irritation about these things. We feel that we can easily follow the experience that it might be nice that some more consideration could be taken into account. On the other hand, we feel that we can do nothing but listen when the country's Minister of Justice and the National Police point out that there will be inappropriateness to this, namely that it will create some kind of inaccuracy or some kind of disadvantage and uncertainty as to what information is available. That is why we will await another announcement from the National Police before we will be willing to support the concrete resolution here. But a great cadeau for the intentions, a great cadeau for the proposers who listen to worried citizens who want a change. We just feel on the part of the Social Democrats that, when it is the case that the National Police are not doing this, we have to listen to them because security must, after all, be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184258	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184300	When I say that I want uniformity and that, for example, we want uniformity. could use the Swedish system, where it is built into the CPR number, so we are doing what would be sensible, namely registering it in one place. When the system already offers options and opens up the possibility of indicating Israel or the Middle East or Germany or abroad, then we must do so. I mean, there can be hardly any greater tension in the uncertainty in the two examples of birthplace. And that is why it is simply a question of ensuring that the CPR system has a clear uniqueness. Today there is a mess; it flows. It's floating in this system, and I think we can keep finding examples every month that there's actually no system in it. And when the Minister has been in consultation, he sits and laughs, because he can see that there are no arguments for it. And it is not proper to sit and say: well, that is what the chief says, and then we should do it. Is it really the system that has to decide things, rather than the consideration for the people in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184408	I have to say that I find that in Denmark we have a system, I think, safe and proper. The fact that we have a well-developed CPR system and that it co-registers with other documents makes me feel very comfortable. I can admit that it may seem frustrating to individual citizens that you cannot get a precise record into your passport or driving licence. But that it should make it possible for us to run the risk of going against a recommendation from the National Police, which is about security, I simply find it difficult to participate in. I mean, when it's that the Reich Police aren't asking for this, we have to listen to it. They must be the ones who know best in this area. I simply cannot, as a private member of the Folketing, make myself a judge of what is the right thing to do. If the National Police say we want to avoid this, then I feel it's right to listen to the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184506	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184507	Does the rapporteur consider that the place of birth declaration has any practical effect on the identification of the person? Isn't it the iris image, the fingerprints, the CPR number and the image that are identification, and nothing else? At any rate, the Minister has lectured us on this, and that is why we have taken him at his word and said: the place of birth declaration has absolutely no significance for identification or security. That is one question. The second question is: does the rapporteur think that Swedes, Germans, Dutch and Norwegians have more insecure systems than the Danish one?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184549	As I heard the Minister for Justice's argument, it was more about whether or not one creates an inequality. And that's why the National Police don't do this. But, as I have just said, we in the Social Democratic Party can easily have sympathy for the intention of this; we can easily understand the desire to change this. We just feel that when the National Police say as clearly as they do that it is not something they want, then we will not risk putting any security at risk. That is simply the argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184625	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. Then it is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184634	Thank you very much. I regret, on behalf of the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, that he could not be here today. I just promised to read his speech here. The proposal from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative is intended to standardise the registration of places of birth in passports and driving licences. The Enhedslisten gives several examples in the comments where it is believed that registration could have been different, and then finally suggests that you should have mentioned the city you were born in and the country, as it was called when you were born. I would like to admit that it is essential that there is a clear thread in how the registration of passports is arranged, as passports and other identification documents are access-giving to Denmark and the West. The Minister's reply shows that it is obviously more complicated than that, and we understand that. Nor is there any real practice between the different countries as to how to register. It is important, however, if one is determined to mention real country names, that if so, they are names which Denmark has recognised as countries. This means, for example, that nationality designations such as Taiwan, Palestine or Tibet cannot simply be used as the place of birth. Actually, when you read the answers through, it's a complicated round. I'm here, and that's sir. Peter Kofod would therefore like to offer Enhedslisten and the Alternative to take a technical review of the proposal in the Legal Affairs Committee so that we can all learn more about the issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184758	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, was there a brief comment? Yes, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184805	We have had four consultations, some of them closed, because it could be that there were some personalised things. We have beaten this through, I think, for up to 6 hours we have had ministers of various kinds, because one minister at one time pushed it over to the other minister, from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Interior to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing and the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing to the Minister for Justice and from the Minister for Justice back to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Then we called them all in consultation for clarification. We think that there should be uniformity in it, but when it flows in the ministries, we have to demand a solution. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution. It is of no use that all parties in the Folketing will now accept that it continues to flow and is uneven. For example: The Danish state accepts Taiwan as a state, although it is not right to say so today. But it is accepted in the Danish system. For example: You can also get abroad in your passport, for example. You can also put the Middle East in your passport. They are not states, and they are not very precise indications. Does the rapporteur not think it is time for us to have a clear and unambiguous way of registering these things, for example? on the basis of the cpr numbers, but also that people can identify the place they are born, for example. the name of the city or country as it was then?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425184932	Thank you. I can easily follow the thinking in terms of uniformity and also in terms of one's own feeling that one would actually like to have indicated the place one was born. I also just have to acknowledge what's coming from the National Police Department. It is not possible to ignore this as a Parliament; it is certainly not our position in the Danish People's Party that you can do so. Perhaps we should also take note of this, if we have really spent so much time and had closed consultations and so on, that it is obviously not as straightforward to change as it might seem, by making a resolution after having had the consultations. I think that a technical review can actually make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185010	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185012	We have had enquiries about seven countries that are neighbouring countries, because we were first told that it was to have the same rules with our neighbouring countries. It turns out that we do not have the same rules in the Nordic countries, we do not have the same rules in Europe, which means that that was no explanation. Sweden is the most stringent country in this respect. They say: We write the city, and we write the country as it was then. If you do not want the country, as it was then called, to stand there, then we just write the name of the city, because it has no practical significance for the identification of the person. They are quite different things we use for that, said the Swedish police. Perhaps it would also be a little wise if we were to be a little pragmatic in Denmark and say: do we not also have to learn from it and have our system trimmed instead of it flowing as it does now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185059	You can always get smarter, I don't deny that at all. The question is what the National Police say to the models used in the other countries. I have not been involved in all these consultations, so I cannot stand here and know that, but at least I think it is quite important to hear the National Police in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185116	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Now it's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185125	Thank you. The proposal we are debating here today concerns the guidelines for registering the place of birth in passports and driving licences. This is not a new discussion, and I recognise that there may be strong feelings behind the desire that is the basis for today's debate. Having said that, it is intended that the way in which we register personal data today, including the place of birth, should first and foremost ensure that the authorities in Denmark have a safe basis for identifying the citizen concerned. It is not appropriate that doubts may arise and this may be the case if there is a discrepancy between the information contained in the different systems. I am not going to repeat the Minister for Justice's somewhat technical speech on the problems that may arise, but I can refer to it at all. In addition, it has been mentioned several times that the National Police have not exactly recommended any change in the current system. It is a professional assessment made by the National Police on the basis of a view of the uniformity of the CPR register and of the legitimation papers. I think we should listen to that, so summa summarum: the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185246	There is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185247	I'd like to know if Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as a long-standing lawyer will tell me what security there is in writing in a passport: This person was born abroad. Or what security is there in writing in a passport: This person was born in the Middle East or in a country that did not exist at all when this person was born? I mean, the place of birth isn't even used for identification. This is what the Minister for Justice tells the Minister for the Interior, and it also tells the Minister who is responsible for driving licences. It's not being used for that. If you placed the registration in the CPR, you got the uniformity opposite today, when there is diversity. We have examples of differences in two passports following each other and differences in driving licences and passports. Isn't that a mess?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185349	I am not going to judge that, but that is to say, the people who have the hands on and have the professional insight, and it is the National Police, of course, that it is important that there is uniformity in the systems, both in the legitimation papers and in the CPR system. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Christian Juhl, that if I were to ask for an ID from a person, it was probably more the face and the person's name that I would focus on in the passport, instead of where he has his birthplace. But as I said, there must be consistency in the systems, and that is what the Kingdom police fear will not be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185424	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185426	Well, we haven't gotten anything from the National Police at the many committee meetings we've had. We have just been told that they have not demanded a change. That's all we've been told. It's the Minister who's in charge. I guess it's not for the officials to decide how things are going to go. I guess so. We agree that it is not the place of birth that is of great importance. It is also not often the name, nor is it often the image that is old-fashioned, but eye and fingerprints, there are the two crucial things for a cop to find the right people, whether it fits with what it says. Help tools are cpr-number and a picture of the person, although sometimes it is also a little doubtful how it can be used. That's what we've been told. It is therefore interesting to hear that it is the Minister who seems to be pushing officials in front of him who says that it must remain the head. Why not decide that the CPR registry got clear lines and that we then used it as a starting point for all our documents. You don't do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185535	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185536	I think that time and again, not least the ministers, we are accused of not listening to professional judgements. Here one listens to the ratings coming from the National Police, and it is the opinion of the National Police that there will be several drawbacks to this, that it will provide different perceptions and different documentation in the CPR register and in the legitimation papers. And that is why the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185604	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, and then Mrs May-Britt Kattrup is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185612	Yeah, for today's occasion, I am. There are quite good opportunities to identify a person using a passport or driving licence, but that image can be muddyed a little, and it can increase the risk if you need to make more manual entries of information. However, it is clear that the information that is being transferred from the CPR register must, of course, be made sure that it is correct. I understand that you have feelings for the country you were born in, and if it had one name when you were born and have another name today, then I understand that you can have many feelings involved in it. However, I believe that the proposal that is here is a little bureaucratic, and legally it is not considered appropriate. And that doesn't solve the emotional aspects of the case. So the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185721	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185723	Can the rapporteur then, on behalf of the parties who are trying to pour water out of his ears here, excuse me for saying this a little bit directly? make an objective argument for this to be a problem. We do not get one objective argument that we should not move it up the CPR register and standardize it. There are differences. One person is told that it has to be Germany, and the other must not be allowed to have Germany, although it is largely the same situation in which they were born. One can at one moment be allowed to say the Czech Republic, which is the current name of the country from which he comes, and the other will be given a passport where there is Czechoslovakia. That country has been shut down many years ago. A third person is told that he or she may be allowed to enter the country of origin. What can be used to indicate the country of origin? Yes, you can use it to ensure that it is not a Dane, that is clear enough, but it is not used for identification. It's just an old tradition that you use it in the pass. Our neighboring countries don't even use it. What is the reason why so many parties will not have cleaned this up and found some uniform guidelines so that we can say: that is how it is when you have to register it; it is not coincidences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185838	I can easily follow the frustrations expressed by the rapporteur, as the rapporteur puts it. However, I have to conclude that it seems that the rapporteur is the only one who has the interpretation of it. In other words, the Minister of Justice and the National Police and everyone else I have heard voices on this matter do not have the same assessment of the matter as the rapporteur has, and that is perhaps one of the reasons why there is no support to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185920	I think we've dealt with the issues that are, and I see we have. So we thank the rapporteur very much. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425185934	Thank you very much. Rasmus Nordqvist, who is the rapporteur in this area, is really, really sorry that he is not here today, especially as we are involved in making this proposal, but he is in the first major EU debate with the top candidates this evening. So he sends his regards. He really would have liked to have flanked sir. Christian Juhl's strong work from his desk to conduct this debate and show off the odds that we can't make this happen. Rasmus Nordqvist has written the following: Land borders move historically, nations arise and disappear, and we people attach great personal and political importance to geography and belonging. In short, this is the reason why the Alternative and Enhedslisten have put forward this proposal to make the rules for registration of the place of birth in Danish passports more flexible, as we see in, for example. Sweden. As it is today, there is no common thread in the Danish authorities' handling of the issue. Thus, some people who were born in a city that was once German but is now Polish may be registered as born in Germany, while others cannot. The Dagbladet Information has reported several times about also a Danish citizen who was born in Gaza, where Danish authorities were given the choice between the non-negotiable Middle East and Israel, which did not exist at that time in 1946 and which is now occupying power in Gaza. It is therefore obviously not a satisfactory solution for the person concerned. Another example of the fact that the Danish rules are not being consistently followed is Taiwan. As Information writes today: For Danes born in Taiwan, it is allowed to have this country registered as the place of birth, although Denmark does not recognise Taiwan as an independent country. The case is not new, and there have been a number of consultations and questions about this case. But the answers have not been very clear, and it has most often worked as bureaucracy for the sake of bureaucracy in our opinion. We note that there are different practices in other European countries and that many others are much more flexible than the Danish authorities. Since the nationality of the place of birth has no practical or security justification, the Alternative and Enhedslisten propose that Danish authorities be given the opportunity to soften up the current inconsistent rules and accommodate Danish citizens for whom this is a very personal and important identity issue. We imagine that Denmark can introduce rules that are as flexible as in Sweden. Under the heading "place of birth', the place where the person was born is first written and then the country where the place belonged when the person was born. Upon application, the person may choose whether he or she will have both place and country with or only the place. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425190227	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425190236	Clearly, this is a matter of great emotional importance to some people, and it has little or no real impact on the authorities. Frankly, I think that the Minister's explanations seem somewhat sought when reference is made to security and identification. It is already permitted today to be listed abroad or in the Middle East, and maybe you could also be listed on the border, on the hot countries, on the east or north of the country. If you already have such loose rules, then I think you should follow the wishes of many people, and therefore the SF will support the motion for a resolution on the basis of such very low-practical arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425190327	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425190340	Thank you. It's a long journey with this little book and this little plastic card, so it's my passport and my driver's license we've been on with the ministers. It is important for authorities to be sure that the holder of a passport and a driving licence are precisely the person indicated in the passport or on the driving licence, as these are important documents for identification. But what we need to talk about has nothing to do with identification, as it is only about the birthplace. I have a few examples. A Danish citizen, Kurt Jonas, was born in the German city of Stettin in 1941. In 1991 he was to have a new driver's license, and here he said that his birthplace was Poland, although Stettin was part of Germany in 1941. In 2011 he was again given a new driving licence stating that he was born in the Federal Republic of Germany but, as you know, the Federal Republic of Germany was founded in 1949 and he was born in 1941 and Stettin was never part of the Federal Republic. Kurt Jonas was told by the authorities that his driver's license could be abroad. So he could not get the authorities to write Germany as the birthplace. Conversely, for another Danish citizen, Ursula Katz. She had Germany written in her passport, although she, like Kurt Jonas, was born in a town that was in Germany at the time of birth but is now Polish. A third Danish citizen, Hamed El-Battagi, was born in Gaza in 1946. He was given a new passport in 2013, where the birthplace of the Middle East was indicated, although in his former Danish passport there was Gaza and in an even earlier passport there was Palestine. At the office, Hamed El-Beltaki was told that he could choose between the Middle East or Israel. Most people can understand why Israel was a little provocative. The State of Israel did not exist in 1946, and the Middle East is a very imprecise description of the place of birth. Then I would like to mention a fourth Danish citizen, 70-year-old Bo Danube. He stays as a pensioner in his native town of Prague. In March of this year he had to have a new passport for the Danish embassy and got a passport that indicated Czechoslovakia's place of birth. But Czechoslovakia ceased to exist as a country on January 1, 1993, I think most people remember that. This was formally contrary to the Danish rules, as various ministers, among others. Minister of Justice Søren Pape Poulsen has claimed to exist. Even more interesting is the fact that in Bo Danube's old passport, the Czech Republic is listed as the place of birth, that is, the new name for where he lives now. Since 2016, we've been discussing these issues with changing ministers. Ministers pass away, but the problem remains. We have held consultations with Minister of Justice Søren Pind, who believed that the Danish rules were made for the sake of our neighbouring countries. In 2017, we asked the Minister to bring home the rules for our neighbouring countries, and they are different. There are no common rules in the EU countries and there are no common rules in the Nordic countries. We held a closed consultation in 2017, for think now, if there was something that the Minister could not tell in an open consultation, but no, there was no explanation. We then held an open consultation with Minister of Justice Søren Pape Poulsen in 2017, and he told us that no correction could be made in the field because the text is being transferred from the CPR register. But it wasn't right either. It is possible to change the field at each office or local authority office. We have seen in 2018 that the Minister for Justice thought it was the table of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior, and we have seen that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior thought it was the table of the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and thus returned to the Minister for Justice. He's got a grint because he hasn't really been able to figure out an explanation for what was head and tail in this. We have had both Minister of Justice Søren Pape Poulsen, Minister of Economics and Interior Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille and Minister of Transport, Building and Housing Ole Birk Olesen in a joint consultation, but here too we could not get these high government representatives to give just a little bit of a reasonable explanation of how we find out about this Pasrod. This year we have asked Minister for Justice Søren Pape Poulsen if we could follow Holland's new practice in one example. You have said that the place of birth may be Gaza and that it may be the West Bank, including Jerusalem. They can handle that easily down there, they say, and they have a very tough police force, I should like to say hello. Safety is often used by changing ministers as an argument for the Danish rules, but how can you trust it when they are administered differently? And citizens are not identified from the place of birth at all, it is not used at all for identification. No border officer will use the place of birth as an identification, and if it should be of interest to the border guard where he was born, I have such great confidence in the knowledge and intelligence of border guards that it would cover the historical knowledge covered by these four examples. People are identified by Danish authorities by four things. It is by the name, although it can be confused, as there are more called Muhammad, more called Christian, and more, called Søren, perhaps even Søren Pape. It is by the cpr number, which is unique, and it is a good identification that we have had great, great pleasure using in Denmark; that is why we have such a good system. It's by photos that were more used in the old days, because it's not a very clear identification if we look at these two examples of identification. Therefore, the border police and others today are increasingly using the iris image, which is a very, very effective identification, but you can't see that in your passport you can only see it on the machines that drive behind. Fingerprints can't be seen on a passport, but it's also unique. And the last two things are the most unique thing you have to identify other people. The place of birth is also not used by the authorities of other countries to identify people, so that's no excuse. So it didn't work out either, sir. Minister, although it was well tried. All our meetings reveal that the place of birth has no security significance for the authorities... absolutely none. It is simply a defence of a bureaucratic system with no objective justification, and I still have the merit of getting the quite so described description from the authority, the police, which says that it is good to keep these rules around the place of birth, which are a mess. I look forward to the Minister sending us the letter saying that the authorities want to maintain the current state of affairs and why and where it means greater security than if you follow the proposal we have put forward and which the Swedes are using. Apparently, consideration for an even indefinable system counts more for the Minister of Justice than for people. One stubborn minister has followed the previous stubborn minister and insisted that this should not be changed. How long will this madness continue? When will Danish ministers and authorities stop thinking as bureaucraticly as they did in the GDR as was the country that Stettin was very close to? When do the Ministers realise that what cannot be explained should not be defended? We want clarity and not a mess shop where there are no fixed rules. We want the CPR register to be registered, and we propose that there be done as the Swedish police wrote in a reply to us that they do, namely: During the place of birth, the place where the person was born is first written and then which country the place belonged to when the person was born. It is the most precise definition one can make, because then one knows that in that year it was that city and that it was in the country that existed at that time. They then wrote on: "When applying, the person can choose whether to have both the place and the country with or only the place. How hard can it be, sir? Minister? We could have escaped many hours of meetings, many questions and many letters if not the stubbornness of the ministers in particular had blocked pragmatic solutions, but also solutions that are more clear than the sometimes great coincidence of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Housing and the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of the Interior in this matter. Excuse me, but this is the peak of bureaucracy, which has no factual explanation, and I would like us to get together soon on this. Now we have given seven options to changing ministers to find a pragmatic solution. How many more times do we have to try?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191253	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no brief comments. It was so that Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned ministers several times and also their name, and I let that pass because it extended over several periods and it was therefore relevant in this context to attach a name to the title of the minister. But if we don't, it's just the ministerial title we're using. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191326	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191341	I would like to begin by thanking the SF for having tabled the motion for a resolution, which obliges the government to table a bill before the end of the year, which tightens the penalty for threats from 2 to 4 years, if the threat is due to the victim's attachment to or apostasy from a religion, a community of opinion or a political conviction, or if the threat is intended to prevent the victim from using his freedom of expression. The motion for a resolution also instructs the government to develop a plan for the administration of victims of threats and to set up a central research and investigation unit in this area. This is not the first time that we in the Danish Parliament have discussed the framework and general conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark, and there is good reason for this, because the framework for the expression of freedom of expression is a highly topical issue at a time when social media have meant that more and more citizens have the opportunity to participate in the public debate. Freedom of expression is something that we must safeguard, and the government, like the proposers, is concerned about ensuring this. Freedom of expression is a fundamental prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy and forms the basis for a free political debate. Freedom of expression ensures that attitudes can be exchanged and that, as a society and as individuals, we continue to develop. That is why I also fully agree with the authors of the motion that threats to freedom of expression are deeply offensive, and I believe basically that we should all be able to participate in the public debate without the risk of being subsequently faced with threats. Views must meet with other views and arguments, not with threats of violence. The threats and gross hoaxes are never the answer, and unfortunately threats and gross hoaxes can help to dampen the desire to participate in the public debate. The Government has therefore already taken a number of steps in this area. Most recently, the penalty has been lifted for threats to people in public service who express themselves in the public debate. It should also be noted that it is already an aggravating circumstance under the criminal code if a person is subject to threats or the like due to his or her legal statements in the public debate. It is because threats based on a person's legitimate statements in the public debate can prevent others from taking part in the debate. Precisely because freedom of expression is very much at the heart of this government, we have chosen to set up a Commission on Freedom of expression. After all, the Freedom of Speech Commission is currently working on identifying and assessing the conditions and development of freedom of expression in Denmark, and as part of the work of the Commission is being carried out, among other things. a larger population survey. The study will be wide-ranging, and among the themes are among others: fear of speech and self-censorship and the culture of debate on social media. Therefore, we will all be wiser on these issues when the Freedom of expression commission gives its report later this year. I would like to emphasise that the government is always ready to see whether more can be done to support freedom of expression, and I have great sympathy for the intention behind this proposal. I just think that it should be made clear whether the measures proposed are what is needed or whether something else or more needs to be done, and it is with this background that the government cannot support the resolution. We simply want to wait for the report from the Freedom of Freedom Commission, where we will have the big, wide debate on it. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government will go openly to further discussions with the Danish Parliament on this important and relevant issue and will also look forward, as I have said, to receiving the initiative of the Commission on Freedom of expression for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191725	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191729	Thank you for the positive and accommodating words on the proposal. Well, that suggests we should be able to reach each other. I think there was a slight contradiction in the Minister's speech, because, on the one hand, the Minister ends up with the answer that we should wait for the work of the Freedom of expression commission, but, on the other hand, in the same speech, the Minister says that a number of initiatives have already been taken which, moreover, I think are good initiatives. It is just that, when we have already taken some initiatives and then say that this particular initiative must wait for the work of the Freedom of Movement Commission, we have to ask why this is not in line with the other good initiatives that have already been taken. I guess we could say it's right now, I think we really need to put these nails in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191823	It is actually because we have made some improvements, and then the proposal here to increase the penalties from two years to four years. It is not, of course, because I normally stand in the way of punishments, and I am actually going to do so in a positive way. Maybe I'm just thinking, because we already have a pretty tight and tighter penalties for this, that if this should be done in isolation, we should at least also talk about funding. It costs every time we sharpen the penalties. Of course, we also need to talk about how this should be done when we have to set up some police units. Where are they to be taken from? So it is not an unwillingness on my part to discuss it or try to reach a solution. It is just that, after all, when we have almost come to 1 May now, and when the report from the Freedom of Movement Commission comes this year, I think it makes very good sense if we just got it on board and had the broad debate on the subject. Then it could be that it led to this proposal and to many others.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191926	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191930	Nor do I hear the Minister's speech as an expression of unwillingness. It is for this reason that the Minister himself points out that some initiatives have already been taken which work, but in relation to other initiatives we must wait for the work of the Commission on Freedom of expression, that I would appeal for it to be seen here in connection with and in the same slipstream as the other initiatives that have been taken, but where only this group of people has not exactly been addressed, namely those who are taking part in the public debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425191959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192002	I can quite easily follow that in isolation. The report is just that we are very, very close to the end of the parliamentary year and to an election, and then we have a Freedom of expression commission that will soon come up with its work, so it now has to say that sometime in the autumn we will be making this proposal before we have discussed funding and other things, I do not think it makes any sense. I think it makes good sense to wait for the report which will come in the autumn anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192021	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192025	The reason why I have just taken the floor is that I do not have the mandate of the Freedom of Freedom Commission, but is it not more the general conditions of freedom of expression that they need to look at, and not particularly with penalties?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192041	The freedom of speech commission has not been given the task of bringing forward concrete legislative proposals, that is quite correct. So, the idea was actually that, you might say, the commission should look very broadly at the framework of freedom of expression and general conditions in Denmark. And when it arrives, it should, like, take the temperature of freedom of speech anno 2019 and thus get around widely, the idea was that I would be very surprised if it were not for us here in the Danish Parliament to say that, on the basis of that report, we will sit down together and say what is to come out of it in a purely legislative way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192114	Then we thank the Minister for Justice and turn to the rapporteurs. First, it's sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192133	On the part of the Social Democrats, we would like to thank the proposers for highlighting this very important issue. There is no doubt that having freedom of expression is simply a crucial crux of a democracy. We have a proud tradition in Denmark to be able to express ourselves on what we want, without being denied. We have the story of Viggo Hørup, who said: Share by opinion. We also remember Hal Koch, who spoke of the word, not the sword. It is absolutely essential that you can speak, use words, debate, argue without being denied. And there is no doubt that when there is so much harassment in the air that we are experiencing in these years, that is a problem. When debaters, politicians, organizationalists, other stakeholders, ordinary citizens expressing themselves risk being threatened because they express themselves, that is deeply problematic. That is why it is a very relevant motion for a resolution which is being tabled here to increase the penalties for this kind of threat to people who are expressing themselves. It is also a proposal in which we Socialists can see ourselves. It is clear that when the Minister of Justice draws attention to his Freedom of expression commission, we are of course listening carefully and aware that there is work here, we have to wait and so on, but as we read the agreement on this Freedom of expression commission, it is precisely not a question of dealing specifically with a criminal framework. And since the fact that some people are being threatened is so extremely serious, we would like to support the motion for a resolution as it is here. We do not believe this to be contrary to the work of the Freedom of Freedom Commission. There may be other perspectives there, but we think that both the motion for a resolution here and the Freedom of expression committee can go hand in hand. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats we can support this motion for a resolution. It must be the case in a democracy such as the Danish one that trying to threaten people who express themselves brings severe punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192353	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192358	I assume that the purpose of such a punishment is to reduce threats. That is, I suppose, the purpose of it, and that is why I just want to know whether the Social Democrats can refer to any material or evidence or anything that suggests that such tightening will lead to fewer threats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192420	It is the common reasoning that, if there is a prospect of a more severe punishment, then that action will also be held back. Especially when it comes to such a thing as threats, assuming that it is some kind of calculated action... it is not a spontaneous act... well then punishment will have a deterrent effect in relation to the desire to engage in that kind of activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192444	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192447	No, I think now most of the threats I get on my Facebook have been sent into affection over how unusually stupid people think what I'm writing is, more than it is an expression of a rational consideration. But let it be said, we can have different experiences with that. However, if you raise the penalties in one area, it will probably also have consequences for the penalties in another area. Well, I guess there's some sort of balance in our penal system. I guess we can't have the death penalty for shoplifting, even though we think it's damn annoying, and then have 25 days' liability for money laundering, right? So there has to be some connection, so I would like to know what considerations the Social Democratic Party has taken into account, what consequences it has for the rest of the legal system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192532	I am perhaps a little surprised at the need to bring the debate on the death penalty into this, particularly in relation to shoplifting. I think that's something out of place. So, the thought we have is that when you threaten people who express themselves, it is a very undemocratic act. It is a very insulting act and we would like to see it rejected. We would prefer it if we did not need to increase the penalties for this, but one of the tools we have is to increase the penalties, and immediately I see no reason why other areas should also be turned up. But we have the Criminal Court to make a recording about what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192616	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192628	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the SF for the motion for a resolution. It is not everyday business that a party on the left should be praised for ideas and ideas on how to punish, because that is often the question that divides the parties on the right and left in the Parliamentary Chamber. Today, the SF is going new ways with the proposal and proposes that the penalty for threats to the constitutional freedom of expression should be doubled from 2 to 4 years. It is in fact a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party welcome incredibly. We think there is good reason for this initiative. However, one thing is the size of the penalty framework, another is how it is used in practice, and there is our view that in fact, in general, we have a rather high penalty framework, but that in the specific cases it is often the courts that end up imposing penalties that are at the low end of the penalty framework. Perhaps it would be a good idea to look at how we actually use the penalties as they are, rather than constantly increasing them with fluctuating success out in reality. Although the proposal is a good one from the outset, we need further clarification of the economic consequences. It is a good old rule of thumb that the proposal is being financed, so what is the cost of such a proposal? We would like to look at this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In our view, we also lack something essential, because what about the expulsion rules? In the Danish People's Party, we would like to see it made easier to expel non-Danish citizens for precisely the crimes that the SF proposal is proposing. We would very much like to see that further looked at in committee work, as it is very central to us that we do not want foreigners to Denmark, who challenge free Danish society, where freedom of expression is absolutely central, and that element is unfortunately missing from the proposal. The SF also proposes that a special police centre be set up to deal with such cases. The area of the police is a matter of conciliation and we do not want to add votes to a proposal that lies with the circle of parties that finance the police and the prosecution. We are happy to take this matter up in the conciliation circle, but we have no wish that the Folketing directly interferes with the work of the conciliation circle. All in all, we fully share the intentions of the proposal with the SF, but the price must be calculated and something must be lulled out, and then there is a missing element about expulsion. When we discuss this in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be finalising our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425192857	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is not a change in section 266 of the criminal code in its substance, but a tightening of the penalty. From a two-year penalty, the penalty must be four years in the circumstances referred to in the proposal, i.e. where the threat is due to the victim's attachment to, or apostasy from, a religion, a community of opinion or a political conviction, or is intended to prevent the victim from exercising his freedom of expression. First of all, let me say that the Left is in favour of the ideas behind the proposal. We have a modification about the Freedom of expression commission and about the economy that may be in the proposal, but I will come back to that in a moment. The proposal is about raising the penalty framework, and I agree with the previous speaker, because one thing is raising the penalty framework, but that penalty framework is probably being used on an average of 10% to 20%. Today or something like that, and that is why it is not so crucial for us whether it is called the max. 2 years in prison or max. Four years in prison, because nobody gets close to those numbers. If you were to do something, you'd have to do a kind of normal punishment that we see in other contexts. I must stress that the government has already done a great deal in the area of threats. We have agreed that it should be an aggravating circumstance if the threat concerns statements in the public debate. Unfortunately, this is something that keeps people from expressing themselves when the threats come, and they often do so on social media and the like. We have also tightened the penalties for threats to public servants, i.e. police officers, ambulances, firemen, social workers, etc. So we have great sympathy for the SF's proposal. The only thing apes dabei is that we have set up a Freedom of expression commission in this way, and I do not have its terms of reference here, but I do remember that there should be some general recommendations in this area, and I do not want to go into a situation in which the Folketing is going in and overruling the Freedom of Freedom Commission, but on the other hand, as I have said, I have a great deal of sympathy with the SF's proposal, so I can finish by saying that we in the committee would like to have documented what it is that the Freedom of Freedom Commission is going to look at in relation to what we are discussing today, and if it is the case that it is not going to examine it here, we are willing to take up SF's proposals here in the Folketing with a positive attitude again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193143	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193148	Now I waited eagerly for the last sentences from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. As I understand it, it might suggest that we could come up with some kind of common platform for this. Because it is quite clear that it can mean something for individual parties if you feel that you are going too close to the work of the police conciliation circle. But I can hear from the rapporteur that it would suggest that we could arrive at a joint report that could go in this direction, also depending on what the Freedom of expression commission is doing and what is meant in the police conciliation circle. Is that true?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193218	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193221	I will certainly not rule that out. Now we often use the concept of a joint report, but that is the crucial point in the report. But it is sympathetic, yes, and I will certainly not rule that out. However, as I have said, it is quite crucial for us that we have not set up a Commission on freedom of expression and then go in and tell us what else it should think. That is not the point of a commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193242	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen, and we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193254	In the Enhedslisten, we fully agree with the proposers that the increasing number of threats notifications and thus probably the increasing number of threats are deeply worrying. That is why we are in favour of two of the three components contained in this proposal, namely the creation of a central research and investigation unit and the development of a better administration plan for victims. We think this is a very good proposal which we can vote for without further investigation. The question remains of strengthening the criminal framework in section 266 of the Penal Code from 2 years to 4 years in prison. I would like to make three comments on this. First of all, I think that two years of unconditional imprisonment is actually a fairly serious punishment for the making of threats. Then we can discuss whether the penal framework is being used and such things, but 2 years of unconditional imprisonment for making threats that are not being implemented is, after all, a relatively violent punishment. After all, we are only talking about threats that remain threats, because if we are talking about implementation or attempts at implementation, we are dealing with quite different paragraphs and a much stricter penalty framework. Secondly, and this is also the question I put to the Socialist rapporteur: is there any evidence whatsoever that a punishment in this area will limit the extent of threats? I guess that's the point. The aim must surely be to limit the extent of threats, because if we have exactly the same number of victims afterwards, what has been the purpose? It is usually an important element, at least for us, that you have an idea that something will work preventively before you just decide to increase the penalty. We will certainly not rule out the fact that this is the case, although, as I indicated in my question, I will probably consider that a great many of these threats have been made in a way that is not well thought out. That is why it will not be subject to any consideration of penalties, as opposed to doing more organised crime such as money laundering, and what do I know? But okay, you can check that out. Thirdly, what if it turns out that raising the penalty for threats will not help if it is, as it were, assessed? Should we raise it further? If up to 4 years is not enough, should it be 6 years, 8 years and 10 years? Why not, if it doesn't matter about the effect anyway? And what about raising the penalty to the length of sentence in comparison with other penalties in the criminal system? You're just gonna raise them, too? It must at least be obvious to everyone that there must be some relationship between the length of sentences for threats and threats that are being implemented. There must be some kind of situation where the latter is being punished considerably more severely than the first. So if we just raise the first one, it has to have some consequence for the second. What is the context? The comments made by the proposal do not deal with these issues, and these are some questions that we would like to discuss in greater detail in committee. On this basis, therefore, we can only vote in favour of two thirds of the proposal. It's a step on the way. The latter must therefore wait for us to have these questions examined. There is mention of the Freedom of expression commission, and I think it is important and I think it is wise to wait for something from it, but I do not think it will answer the questions that have been raised here, because I see its mandate as going in a slightly different direction. We also have other options. We have the opportunity to ask the Criminal Code Council; we have the opportunity to initiate an investigation, etc. We have different options that we can take in. If it turns out that a reasonable balance can be found in relation to other penalties in the criminal system and that it has an assessment that this will actually help the problem, we will also look positively at the third element of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193730	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193734	First of all, thank you for the many positive words that were, but I would still like to ask about this. I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard ignores threats by saying several times: These are only threats. It's not done yet. But is Mr. Søren Søndergaard is not aware of what threats actually mean here and now for a whole lot of people's concrete lives? Because even if they are not implemented, understood as saying that these people are not being killed or attacked, these people must live under police protection, with a secret address, they are afraid of the day-to-day, their children are nervous about going to school, because they do not know when something is going to happen to their parents. Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard, these threats are so could I just ask for a few more words about the fact that they are not being implemented, and then it probably doesn't do much? Yeah, I can assure you it does a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193833	I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. Well, threats are very serious, and threats have an effect. That's why threats aren't just threats. But that does not change the fact that there are threats, and then there are threats that are being implemented. And I guess we're on the same page. Otherwise we can also take that discussion, that is, I am actually willing to take it, and say: well, the intention alone is just as bad as if it were implemented. Then there's just a lot to change as far as the penalties are concerned. Otherwise, the assumption was that threats were included in one paragraph, and the execution was included in another paragraph and resulted in more severe punishment. That is also my starting point. What I am a little nervous about is that we are starting from something and saying that this is very serious, therefore we must raise the penalty framework. Because what matters to us is whether it helps. What if the penalty was one year? Would there then come a proposal that the penalty should be raised to four years, or would there come a proposal that the penalty should be raised to two years? We need to have those considerations taken together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193942	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425193946	Yeah, of course. After all, in our system of penalties, there must be parallelism, there must be proportional punishment in relation to the nature of the crime. Of course. It is also as clear that when we are in an area like this, we do not yet have complete evidence of what the meaning will be. However, I would like to say that I have the unconditional pleasure of working with Enhedslisten in a few other areas where there is at least a very firm conviction that increased punishment works. There it is, among other things. on the working environment and the traffic area. There I have not heard the same search for completely clear, documented evidence of it. There you typically agree that you have to hit the employer in the working environment and that you have to hit traffic sinners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194027	No, it is not so true that there is no desire to assess the effects. It can be said that, in general terms, in the Enhedslisten, we believe that the more thoughtful an action is, the more time behind it, the more the decision is taken, the more the penal framework has a significance. And you can say that's something that seems a little opposed to what you can say is a general preventive effect, isn't it? Because we also have to recognise that a number of murders are infectious murders, in which it has to be said that the punishment does not have much importance in terms of the repetition effect, but it has a general preventive effect. But let us take the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194111	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194128	Thank you for that, and thank the proposer for highlighting this very important area, because freedom of expression is simply the cornerstone of our democracy, and freedom of expression is very much at the heart of the Liberal Alliance. I don't think there's a lot of doubt about that. Yields should definitely not meet with cobblestone throws and bonfires in the streets, but with arguments. The Liberal Alliance also agrees that there must be a hard fight against this kind of thing. That is why we are also pleased that the government has already started work to examine the conditions of freedom of expression, and I think we should wait for that work. So, although I very much support the intention of the proposal, because freedom of expression, as I have said, is something very dear to me and the Liberal Alliance, we do not support the resolution because we want to wait for the work that has been started. I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194230	Thank you. And I do not see any other rapporteurs who have asked to speak. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194233	Thank you for the parties' predominantly positive comments on the motion for a resolution. I am quite sure that we in the committee will be able to reach each other and find a form in which both the parties that form the political circle and the rest of us can find a joint report. Violence takes many forms, and at times mental violence can lead to more severe consequences than physical violence. With the motion for a resolution, the SF proposes to crack down on threats, strengthen the investigation and take better care of the victims. First of all, we must do so in order to defend the individual who is subject to threats, with the fear and insecurity that comes with it. But it is also about the very core of democracy. Freedom of expression and freedom of assembly are very good, and it is very good that we can demonstrate, but what good will it do if, in a democracy, we end up in the tyranny of threats? And it is not enough to have the right to speak freely if thugs manage to silence the people who have something to say. That is why we in the SF also think it is a good idea for us to have a Freedom of expression commission, but we just see no reason to wait for its more general approach to how we approach it, in relation to here and now having the need to put on enough nails to mark an absolutely necessary position on the developments we see. Many specific cases have been described in the media, and this can scare the victims from saying something another time and which side effect scares others from participating in the public debate. For every Halime Oguz, Sara Omar or Zenia Stampe, who chooses to pay the price for presenting controversial views, there are several others who keep quiet because they fear reprisals. And the problem grows if we don't do anything. Today there is a short distance between thought and action in some people, and the Internet has made it easy to bother and threaten. By raising the penalty, we can insert a filter in relation to the finger that hits the send button, or the one that drives off to stand in the front door of a public debater. Because it is these public debaters who are salted in democracy; they are the ones who give food taste with their sharp attitudes. And without a strong public debate, politics ends up as a soaked seafood. It is an enrichment when the author of the book "Dead Laundry," Sara Omar, gives an insight into the upbringing of those girls, and yet she ends up in need of protection because she is threatened with life. And the debater Halime Oguz has been threatened after having participated in a television broadcast and told about the difficult conditions in some parallel societies. And the threats also hit politicians on a regular basis. It is the heart of democracy that beats when we debate. We don't have to put up with the threats. Victims must be protected, democracy must be oxygenated and bullies that threaten must be severely punished. I would like to conclude by saying that the Radical Left has announced that they also support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194655	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194710	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425194724	First of all, I would like to thank the SF, which, with this resolution, contributes to a very good and important debate on the fight against trafficking in human beings and the gross exploitation of vulnerable workers. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to submit before the end of the year a bill amending the criminal code on trafficking in human beings. Today it is the case that it is a condition for being convicted of trafficking in human beings for forced labour that people have been forced to work or have not really had another choice. The motion for a resolution proposes to change this to extend the provision to work which, without forced labour, contains elements of gross exploitation and inhumane treatment. It has not been long since we last discussed the fight against the exploitation of vulnerable people to work in very miserable conditions. In March, together with the Minister for Employment, I was in consultation on this very subject, and I actually see the proposal as such in a straight line from that consultation. I think it was a very good and constructive consultation where we had good discussions and where we also touched on the idea of amending the penal code on trafficking in human beings in order to ensure that more backers are judged. As I also expressed in the conciliation, I fully agree that the fight against trafficking in human beings for forced labour and the exploitation of vulnerable people to work in very poor conditions must be strengthened, and I therefore believe that the ideas behind this resolution are not entirely biased, because I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that we should have held the backers of these matters to account. Then I am not sure that a change to the criminal code on trafficking in human beings will necessarily solve the challenges in this area. The fight against trafficking in human beings involves a great many different authorities, each of which has its own role in terms of prevention, help for victims and prosecution of backers, and that is why we need to look at it here in a comprehensive perspective to see how best we can improve our efforts. As I also mentioned at the conciliation meeting, an inter-ministerial working group has been set up as part of the government's reasonable agenda to look at possible initiatives in this area. The working group shall, inter alia: assess the need for legislative action. In this context, the working group will also have to obtain experience from other countries on, inter alia: the possibility of prosecuting the perpetrators. I have already obtained information from Belgium, to which the authors have referred in the motion for a resolution. In Belgium, as you know, they have changed their legislation on trafficking in human beings so that they have moved away from the requirement of coercion. This is certainly interesting and useful knowledge, but the Belgian labour market model is somewhat different from the Danish model, and their criminal law rules cannot necessarily be transferred directly to the Danish model. And then, as I have said, it is not certain that a change in the criminal code will solve the evidenceal challenges that we sometimes see in these cases, but these are, of course, information that I have intended and decided to continue working on, and that is why they will also be dealt with in the working group I mentioned. The working group will have to submit its recommendations as early as May. I think I also mentioned this in the consultation in March and with the recommendations of the working group, we will learn more about whether there are grounds for amending the criminal code on trafficking in human beings. I therefore think that because we are very close to May, and this is not just one thing; we should look at it broadly and we should wait for the recommendations of the working group before we decide to change the penal code in such a way, and that is why we cannot support it, even if we can see the thoughts behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195105	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195109	I should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his approach to the ideas contained in the motion for a resolution. However, I would like to ask the Minister about the position that our own Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings can appoint 74 people who have actually been victims of trafficking in human beings and forced labour, but that 0 has been convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195134	As I am told, the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings operates with a slightly different definition of trafficking in human beings for forced labour than the purely criminal part of it. And they do so because their work is very much aimed at helping the victims. So this is not a criminal assessment of whether the sponsors can be convicted of trafficking in human beings, and that is why it is not entirely comparable. However, there is no discussion that it is serious and that we should take it seriously. I should also like to stress that it must not be allowed to go away in this debate that there are several backers who have actually been convicted of their gross exploitation of the victims, i.e. according to the criminal code on usury, that is, gross exploitation. It's just that it's said in this context too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195215	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195219	That's right. Fortunately, we have had some verdicts after the provision on usury. I nevertheless think that this too, for the Minister, must be quite a surprise. In other words, if we are to deal with the fact that regardless of whether human trafficking and forced labour could be defined in different ways, we can say that the provision in the law we have today dates back to 1930. So I guess it's a little out of line with what's happening. However, we note that the two cases, which have been brought forward after all, also ended without judgment. And there we have an expert on trafficking in human beings, Anders Lisborg, who just says that it is the Belgians that should be looked at. Because they have put the bar in law higher than in Denmark, and in Belgium obscene human conditions are equal to human trafficking, making it considerably easier to get people convicted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195305	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195307	That is also why what has been included in Belgium comes in and is part of the work of that working group across ministries. Because I have a clear expectation that, when that working party holds out in May, we will have a broad perspective on this, which will probably end up with us coming together to make some legislation in this area. I'd expect that to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195327	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195344	On the part of the Social Democrats, we also recognise that there are very great problems in this area where people are being pressured, forced, encouraged to work under conditions which are totally unacceptable and in which it is a form of forced labour. We have seen some boring examples of this, and among other things. 3F has dug up cases where it has to be said that it simply resembles trafficking in human beings. Therefore, there is no doubt that the proposers here have a major point in that there is a large and extensive problem. And there is no doubt that with some changes to the definition of what is trafficking in human beings, this can help to make it more operational. So from the point of view of the Social Democrats, we are extremely positive about the intentions of this proposal. As the Minister for Justice mentioned, there is an inter-ministerial working group, and there has been the assessment from the Social Democratic leadership that it is a good idea to wait for that working group. As I understand the Minister for Justice, it is already barring this month in May and there we hope that the intention of this motion for a resolution will be followed up. But we think it is a good idea to wait for the work of the inter-ministerial working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195517	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195526	Thank you. The aim of the proposal here is to make it easier to come after cynical backers who are behind trafficking in human beings. Is that a problem in Denmark? Yeah, I'm afraid so. We have seen several cases in which people are dealt with and exploited in the most serious way, and frankly, it should not be possible to occur in an orderly country like Denmark, but it does. The proposal's comments mention that 74 victims of trafficking in human beings have been identified, but that no one has been convicted of trafficking in human beings. That is why it is being proposed to extend the provision that people can be held to account. Following a recent consultation in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have understood that the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Employment, together, have set in motion a working group which, in May, will set out how much more systematically to come after trafficking in human beings and the people behind it. It is good that the government is aware of this. We share the intentions of the proposal, and there is certainly nothing more motivating for a government than knowing that if you do not deliver the goods, then the Folketing will be happy to help. We therefore propose that the government be given the opportunity to present its ideas for action in this area and that the Folketing wait until that happens. After all, it is only a short time. If, contrary to expectations, the government does not deliver, we will gladly be ready to help push it through the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195646	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195654	Thank you. The SF resolution deals with an important debate on trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of groups of people. The proposers propose to amend section 262a of the Criminal Code on trafficking in human beings so that it also includes work under unreasonable and intolerable conditions. There should be no doubt that we in the Left are looking very seriously at these issues. I therefore agree with the proposers that we must step up our efforts in this area. We cannot accept that vulnerable people are being seriously exploited to work in poor conditions. It simply does not belong in Denmark, but it is a large and complex area, which is why I am glad that there is an inter-ministerial working group looking at it. Let us therefore await the outcome of their recommendations. I understand from the Minister that they are already coming in May, and then I am sure that there will be a change of law in one way or another, but I do not want to go in and overrule the working group. So, on this basis, we cannot support the proposal, but we have a great deal of sympathy for the ideas behind it, and I am quite sure that we will get through with something in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195803	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425195818	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. We fully share the recognition of the problem of forced labour as set out in the proposal. We also recognise that the problem of forced labourers is not decreasing, but is increasing. It is increasing globally, where we are talking about millions and millions of people, and it is also increasing in Europe, the European Union, and it is increasing in Denmark. The reason for this is, of course, increased globalisation, but it is also the increased deregulation that we have seen in many countries. It has made forced labour possible. It is clear that the main protection against forced labour is strong trade unions. It is trade unions that can intervene in the workplace. It is a strong labour inspectorate. These are strong rights for the organized workers' movement. Therefore, it is an important part to support it and not to make limitations. Unfortunately, we have seen that civil parties have decided to restrict the labour inspectorate's ability to enter private homes, which has, of course, been a weakening of the possibility of exposing forced labour in connection with construction and such things. So we need to maintain, just as we do, that there are some things that need to be done that are outside the framework of purely criminal law. However, when it comes to criminal law, we also think that something needs to be done. Because it is clear that, contrary to what we talked about earlier on the issue of effect, the people who are behind this, the backers who are behind this, are calculating the hard work. That is something that has been considered in detail in relation to what the risk is. There we certainly believe that punishment can have an effect. Our problem, however, is that there is, after all, a smooth transition between what can be called gross exploitation of labour and, in fact, forced labour or trafficking in human beings. That border is floating. And if we are to have sanctions, it is clear that then we will have to be more precisely able to define when the slipping transition passes over the transition where it becomes unacceptable and where it is no longer just a professional matter. After all, the clear demarcation is missing today, and I think it is important that we look at it in committee. It may be that the committee set up by the Minister will help us. But we think it is important that we try to move forward in order to set the clear limit. The same idea as in this proposal was promoted in 2014-15 in the Folketing, and there too we stressed the need to do some legal analyses in this area. We still think so, and we hope that they will come. But the short part is that we fully support the starting point, also because the ordinary myth, perhaps in this area, that it is something that concerns prostitution and the like, is quite wrong. This area has spread to transport, cleaning, housework, construction, etc., and action must be taken against it. So let us look at it in committee. Let us try to see what comes from the committee set up by the government and let us quickly come up with some form of concrete proposal or report, what it might become, so that we can adopt a proposal, if not before the summer break it will be difficult to reach it then during the next new government after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200237	There is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200240	Thank you. I just want to hear Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard, if he really thought he was sorry that we have prevented authorities from running around the citizens' private homes without a court order. Well, just because they think there's something here they'd like to look at, they'd be able to wander around inside people's homes without a warrant. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is really sorry that we have prevented it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200311	No, I'm not sorry to have prevented the authorities from entering without a court order. But I think it is a huge problem that we have not built up structures which make it possible, for example, for the European Parliament to have a say in this matter. The Labour Inspectorate can obtain a court order immediately if they have a suspected suspicion, so that the moment is not lost. Unfortunately, that is what is happening, because when the authorities arrive after some time, then the people who are being exploited have disappeared. And this is a huge problem which I think we should all have a responsibility to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200354	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200356	Well, I'm just gonna sign for the answer. It was nice to hear that the rapporteur at least believes that there must be a court order in order for authorities to have access to the homes of private people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200408	And we agree on that, I see. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard. And then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200425	Thank you. Again, SF has focused on a very important issue, and it is nice that we have the opportunity to talk about these things in the Assembly Hall. And, of course, we must combat the exploitation of vulnerable people for forced labour. There can be no doubt about that, and this is a very important subject for the Liberal Alliance. In this area too, the government has already set up a working group which works across ministries, and I think we should await the outcome of the work of this group. That is why we do not support the resolution, even though we believe that the intentions are very good. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they do not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200514	Thank you, and there are no brief remarks. This is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425200526	Again, in this resolution, I must thank you for the many kind remarks. It's awful that we can scratch each other on our backs tonight. So thank you for the positions that emerged, which could also indicate that we can work together to do something about it. Then I would just like to say that it is really good that this inter-ministerial working group is bringing something here now, and I understand that it was May. I just need to make it clear: it's May this year, right? The reason why I want to put it this way with a crooked smile is that the SF had this almost identical proposal for consideration here in the Assembly Hall in 2015, and it was also recognised from all sides that it was also something that should have been addressed. Well, since 2015 until today, there hasn't been a snuff. Yeah, there's been a snuff out there in the real world, in that there's been more deals. There are several people who have been exploited who have stepped on, who have been humiliated and underpaid. I understand the argument that now we have to wait for what this inter-ministerial group has arrived at, but I also hope that you can understand that, having made this proposal in 2015, and since then nothing has actually happened, I hope that we will now at least get it done, because you would actually think that what is going on out there was a lie. For in the midst of our secure welfare society a group of people live and work under conditions that we must basically call a slave existence. It is not as well to understand that they are wearing iron chains around their necks or around their legs, but the chains are still there, and they are equally effective, because people are forced to work and live in miserable conditions, if they can therefore be held firmly by chains that can be expressed in threats of beating, violence against the family in their home country, or that they are kept in an economic dependence due to debt or other things. Therefore, it is good to see that Denmark's Radio and the trade union 3F have revealed several cases of such gross exploitation that it is mostly reminiscent of trafficking in human beings and slavery. It takes place in many countries all over the world, and it also takes place in Denmark. The Danish Social Protection Agency's Center against Trafficking in Human Beings estimates that 74 people have been sold to forced labour in Denmark from 2009-2018, and that is surely the figures they have been able to obtain. But a report from the National Police shows, however, that not a single backer has been convicted. So the result is at least 74 victims, 0 convicted. SF believes that the legislation needs to be revised so that backers can be more judged under section 262 A of the Criminal Code, and in this respect we can be inspired by Belgium, how much more are both charged and judged. In fact, in Belgium, forced labour is much more severe, so it also includes work that is carried out under unreasonable and intolerable conditions. The current definition in Denmark of forced labour dates back to 1930 and the world looks somewhat different today. In Denmark, only two cases were indicted against backers: the so-called basement case and the so-called garage case, but no one was convicted of trafficking in human beings or forced labour in the two cases. Since then, we have seen the case from the construction site in Holbæk and the road haulage company Kurt Beier's slum camps in Padborg. In the consultation which has been held in the debate before, the Minister for Employment said, and I quote: these are some very serious problems and cases which we have seen in the specialist journal 3F and in broadcasts on television. I believe that we all agree that the conditions described in the cases in question are totally unacceptable. I cannot disapprove strongly enough of the fact that vulnerable groups in the labour market are being exploited by cynical backers. But then it is again that we must now say, four years after the SF made a proposal for the first time, that words do not do it alone. Clearly, we need to change the law. Then I would say that you should not think that this is the way it is. There will continue to be a need for a strong trade union movement which, with a sufficient number of people, is able to seek out such jobs, that we have a labour inspectorate that has the muscles to actually get out of the offices and come out and check the conditions, that we have tax authorities and we have police who also prioritise this kind of case. This is what can be done jointly to eradicate trafficking in human beings and slavery in Denmark. I would just like to say that the Radical Left has announced that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425201042	We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425201058	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425201115	Thank you, President. First of all, I think there is good reason to thank the Danish People's Party for highlighting how both quality and legal certainty for children and young people can be strengthened, including in relation to cases of placement. This is an important agenda that concerns us across the parties, and we have continuously made valuable changes in the area of placement. That is why I fully support the purpose and intention of the motion for a resolution B 105. I believe there is a need to look at how to create a higher professional quality in the case and in the decisions in this area, so that even more stable and continuous placement processes can be created. And, as I have also said, both in consultation here in the Chamber and on other occasions, we are in fact already in the process. I also have a few reservations about the motion for a resolution, but before I come to them, I would like to zoom out a little and anticipate the proposal in B 105. For individual cases and legal investigations, we politicians can leave behind the impression that everything is going on, that nothing is under control in the municipalities, and that children and young people are being thrown around in chaotic placements. And it's not like that. Understand me correctly, one chaotic placement is absolutely too much, because it is the most vulnerable children and young people in society that are at stake here. And that is why, in relation to various individual cases, I cannot stress strongly enough that the municipalities must tighten up their legislation and that they must comply with it. But we are looking at the big picture for vulnerable children and young people, because they are placed, I can see that there are, among other things. is a development towards more prevention and fewer placements, while at the same time the children placed outside the home are very much thriving at their location, and that is a good thing. I think it is very positive, for example, that nine out of ten children and young people placed in the study • Children and young people brought in 2018 • They are well at home and 92 per cent are well at home. of the children and young people placed in care experience that they have adults who care about them. We can also see that the number of notifications is increasing. Thus there is an increase of 12%. in the number of notifications from 2016 to 2017, and I see this as an indication that more people are aware of how children and young people are doing and are also aware that they need help. However, there is no doubt that there is also room for improvement in the effort and, as I said, I basically agree that the placement area needs a review so that the quality and legal certainty in this area are strengthened. The government has, in fact, already begun this work. This may not have been quite clear, but, first of all, the government launched last autumn, as part of the Context Reform, that right here in the spring, we will have a coal excavation of efforts for vulnerable children and young people. And the purpose of the coal excavation is simply to look at how the quality and legal certainty of exposed children and young people can be strengthened by identifying whether the existing rules and associated process requirements adequately take into account the differences in gravity and complexity that characterise the cases in the area. In addition, before the motion for a resolution was tabled at all, I had asked the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs to look at how the quality of legal certainty in the field of housing can be strengthened. And what I have asked for a proposal for is how to bring about major structural changes. I do not think it is technically or economically appropriate to set up a parallel coal excavation, as proposed in B 105, when an existing work is already under way to look at how quality and legal certainty in this area can be strengthened. Secondly, I would like to remind the parties that the government, together with the pool of rates parties back from the pool agreement last year, agreed to launch a series of initiatives aimed at improving the decision-making framework and also at improving legal certainty in cases of placement without consent. Among other things: make it a legal requirement that settings for placement without consent to children and young people's committees should include a separate assessment of parents' competences in dealing with the child and any challenges of the child. And it will be a requirement that when a psychological examination of the parents is carried out in the context of the child's examination, it should be done with an authorised psychologist. This should ensure a certain quality in the studies carried out on parental competences. In addition, I would also like to emphasise that we, on the political side, have adopted a number of important and good measures designed to ensure the improvement of the care area, which is, of course, the most widely used housing reform. Last year we adopted a large and ambitious package to strengthen the area and minimise the number of shifts and the number of crashes. Finally, I am delighted to announce that KL has today announced that they recommend the municipalities to use the so-called average model for the remuneration of foster families and that they have at the same time published a number of principles for good bargaining behaviour between municipalities and foster families. I have long been pressing for more municipalities to use the average model, and I also know that a great many of the social rapporteurs have, because we know from experience that the model reduces insecurity and conflicts between municipalities and foster families, because the model does away with the annual renegotiation of the conditions of foster families. I therefore believe that with KL's new recommendations we can take a major step towards ensuring stability and security for children placed outside the home. In addition to the fact that a number of initiatives have already been launched to strengthen quality and legal certainty in the field of housing, I do not believe that an independent expert group is the best way of digging the area. In my optics, such work should be anchored in the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, and there are two reasons for this. First of all, the Ministry, together with the Social Security Authority, has a great deal of professional knowledge about the placement area, including knowledge about the latest research results and active efforts and the like. And it is vital to me that recommendations for strengthening the location area are based on knowledge of what works. In this regard, we have, of course, taken a major and important step in establishing the development and investment programme in the field of children, which was agreed with the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement. The development and investment programme shall strengthen the development and dissemination of effective and cost-effective interventions and practices in the children and young people field, based on methods and interventions requested in the municipalities. For me, it is absolutely crucial for strengthening the location area that future actions have a link with the knowledge-based social policy that we have launched together. Secondly, a coal excavation of the site anchored in the Ministry will also be able to draw on the Ministry's legal competences. This is, for example, important in relation to the subsequent implementation of any rule changes that could be the result of such an excavation. You have to assume that. Following on from this, I also think it is absolutely crucial that recommendations for possible legislative changes, etc. is seen in the context of existing studies of the local authorities' procedures. This applies, for example, to the annual study on the quality of municipal proceedings in the area of children, for which the government, together with the parties responsible for the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, allocated permanent funding. It is a study to ensure that we get both a better and continuous picture of the municipalities' casework, including that we can target efforts towards municipalities that do not comply with the law. So, for these reasons, a ministerial anchoring of a possible new coal excavation of the area is therefore essential. In summary, I fully agree that there is a need to give the site a review in order to strengthen quality and legal certainty, and I would also like to congratulate the proposers for having the area on the agenda again. However, when we reject the motion for a resolution and it is a gentle rejection, it is on the basis of the two main issues I have just mentioned. We have already launched a series of initiatives for the cultivation of the area, and at the same time such work should therefore be anchored in the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs, so that the recommendations that come will be implemented so that they are based on knowledge of what works and that they are legally workable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425201950	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment on Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425201953	Thank you. I am very incomprehensible that the government cannot support this proposal. Now the Minister for Social Affairs mentions something about the cohesion reform, but this resolution is about something quite different, precisely about the quality assurance that we will have a coal excavation, but also that we will have a group of experts in relation to those who work with the area where previously placed children could also be heard. However, I would like to ask the Minister a question in connection with the cohesion reform mentioned by the Minister. How does the cohesion reform examine whether the children and young people committee are the right body to have the decision-making power? How do you involve yourself in this work, for example? must be family law capable of making a decision when a child or a young person is to be placed? How does the cohesion reform involve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202047	The cohesion reform does not do that directly, but it does the work that I have set in motion in the Ministry. Because what Mrs Karina Adsbøl mentions is precisely a number of the recommendations that come from the Think Tank Justitia. I have also held a meeting with Justitia, and it was in fact on the basis of that meeting with Justitia that I asked for a proposal for major structural changes. One of the changes, and perhaps even one of the slightly less structural changes, is to look at how the children and youth committees are organised. One of the things I miss when I look at the children and young people's committees today is that there is a competence that has a look at the procedure, good procedure, that the formal requirements for the procedure have been complied with. For some of the things we hear over and over again are that when we come to a meeting of the children and young people's committees, no account is taken of the fact that there have been procedural errors and a decision is taken anyway. It's just one of the things we're already looking at. So I can completely confirm that this is part of the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202138	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202140	Now I do not know how many times we have discussed this area, where both the Danish People's Party, but also other parties, have simply shouted for action by the Minister. We have taken many initiatives together, but we have called for action. And I have asked a question in the past precisely in relation to Justitia's recommendations, which the Minister of Social Affairs has refused. The Minister for Social Affairs has also previously refused to take on board the recommendations made by Justitia. So I am very incomprehensible about what the Minister is saying on the platform today. The Danish People's Party had told the minister that something had to happen in this area, and otherwise the Danish People's Party itself would make a proposal on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202221	I do not think I have refused. I think I have gone into that process in a way that is the right way to go into such a process. In other words, instead of taking Justitia's recommendations and then just driving one to one, it is necessary to get an internal work started, where you like to have the durability and gangability of those recommendations assessed. And that is among other things. Some of the things I've asked the Ministry to look at. It's been months now. I can hardly remember when I had that meeting with Justitia, but I think it was in the autumn, but you can see that in my calendar. And then I get a proposal for a number of major, but also minor, structural changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202257	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202258	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. So I am also a little surprised by what I hear today, because we have had many consultations, we have had both one and the other debate on questions and so on. and so on, and nothing has been said by the Minister that a job had been set in motion. But having said that: we have waited and waited, we have had one case, the other case and the third case and request, why is it that the Minister does not think that it is good to have a group of experts from outside who can look at this with new eyes, instead of doing more of the same and the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202336	I just have to say, I don't recognize that. As I just said in my opening speech, I have actually said at the conciliation that I had started this work. So I have mentioned it, and I have also mentioned it on several occasions. When I may be concerned about putting the work outside the ministry, it is because of the two reasons that I recounted in my speech. Firstly, it is important to have legal competences so that you can actually see how it can be implemented later on. I do not think that an independent expert group can be asked to make a number of recommendations that are not intended to be implemented. Secondly, it must play along with the rest of the social policy that we have, which is knowledge-based and in which we have been working for a long time to make it stronger and make it more strategic. Nor will you get it if you place it in an independent group of experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202429	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202431	Well, you just have to look at the child's reform, which is now toad-old and which still doesn't work. There are such things that make you think that something simply has to happen. And then you can have the idea that those who usually do something may not have to be the ones who have to do something about it again, just so that there can be some new input and you can see it with some fresh eyes that are not necessarily dusty in the ministry's lawyers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202455-2	Well, I fully agree that we need to make more changes and that we need to make more changes. That is also what we have done together. Until a few years ago, it was not customary to actually prioritise the placement area in the pool negotiations. We have given massive priority to this. We have done this together and across the board, and there has been a good reason for this. It is also because there has been an important role for a number of parties and has been high on their agenda. I expect that to continue. It is also high on my agenda. That is why it is just to continue the good work that we have already started.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202534	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202538	After all, we have had a discussion not so long ago here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where even the Liberal Alliance joined the tabs among those who thought that major changes should be made in this area. Most of all, I just don't recognize the picture that everything that we've done together should have happened. Yeah, yeah, we screwed some little screws together. However, when the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and, incidentally, the rest of the opposition, which also supports this proposal from the Danish People's Party, have a desire to go much further, it is an expression of an area which has quite serious problems. We have, of course, been trying, in connection with the divorce reform, to look at a system whose main task, according to them themselves, for some years, both when we had government power and subsequently under the blues, was to protect the State Administration. A majority in the Folketing did not think that should happen. Well, a majority in the Folketing actually thought it was a good idea to abolish the State Administration and start over. I have a feeling that there is a ministerial duvet over being allowed to make a proper reform of this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202647	I can completely deny that there should be a ministerial duvet, and I can also say that I do not recognize what Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil is saying in relation to the fact that there should be a very great disagreement about the location area. I see that we have agreed on the steps we have taken, and so I also see that there is agreement that we need to move forward. That's one of them. That is why the coal excavation has been set in motion, and that is why the internal work of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been set in motion. So we are in fact well on our way in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202717	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202718	It is a little difficult when it is that the Minister is the only one who has that view, and therefore it becomes a bit like hitting in a duvet. I have simply not heard any rapporteur in this area agree with the Minister, I just have not. And, of course, the Minister may be able to pull someone out of a hat that I do not know about; I would be glad to hear about that, but that is actually not the view. And you always get a little bit of a feeling that the minister has such a grin in relation to this. Actually, I don't think it's funny. I believe that we are dealing with some children in which the state has assumed the highest responsibility at all, namely that some children have been removed from their parents. And with regard to the political teasing that we are all indeed in agreement, I would say that no, we are not, and we need a great deal of reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202802	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202803	Well, I didn't realize there was really any question. One can just say that this is something we have been prioritising together for several years. For the two and a half years I've been a minister, it's been at the top of the agenda. It has been with a number of parties. The Danish People's Party in particular must give credit for having lifted the area and helped put it on the agenda, and that is very, very good. And then a number of different works have been started, a great coal excavation and, at the same time, a work to look at structural changes. It must be said to be ambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202839	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we go to the rapporteurs, and that is first Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425202853	I would also like to congratulate the Danish People's Party on the efforts it has made for children, and I would like to say that the changes that have taken place in this area have taken place with a strongly pressured minister who has fundamentally had a majority against him on these points. Having said that, I would, however, like to acknowledge the Minister for what has landed today. In other words, I know that the Minister has put a great deal of knuckle in something that I actually think is very important in the area of housing, namely that we have looked at the pay model. I think the Minister should be commended for that. It is a piece of work for which the parties of the Folketing can back up and which has carried a lot of knuckle fat on the part of the Minister, and for which I would like to pay tribute. But, as I said in my comment before, we are talking about housing where children are placed, about something where, as a society, we really do have to tamper with some of the most sacred things, namely that we go in and make decisions about the affiliation of a child and say that this child should no longer be about what is the biological parents of the child. It is so violent an intervention, and when you do it as a society, and I think that there is good reason to do so in the cases we do it, and we also have a desire in the Social Democratic Party to go further along that path, because very many children, as young adults, demand that they had actually been placed as children, because the conditions at home were so bad we must be able to make better conditions available than what is the case today. It is in this month 20 years since I was first elected to the Folketing, and I believe that the most responsible figure ever found in the Folketing, which I have ever encountered, is that a quarter of the children placed are trying to commit suicide a quarter! I agree that one has had a bumpy start in life once one has been placed, but it simply cannot justify a quarter of the children trying to commit suicide. So sorry if I am not wearing the cheerful hat in this way compared to the small adjustments that have been made in the area for the last four years. I do not think that is good enough, and I do not think we have got far enough, and I believe that too often we have just passed it on to the municipalities and have said that this is their responsibility. No, I don't think so. It has actually been my experience that if you only talk to people who are members of the Folketing and who are not part of the government, you could sit down and gather all the parties in the Folketing behind a great, real, solid reform of this area. I believe that we have a problem when children experience being taken from their foster families and are taken home by, for example. a municipality. This is a problem for children, for it can be the only solid parents they have ever experienced, that is, the foster family with which they are placed, but it is also a problem for foster parents. What is it, though, that we say to some foster parents who have given a real effort, who have taken some children and who have taken care of them: Unfortunately, we are taking the children to the municipality for savings reasons. I believe that there is a lack of fundamental children's rights on this, namely that children should be at the centre, that they should have the right to a regularity and calm about their upbringing. I think that is the least we, as a society, can make available. I mean, we have a problem when we talk about the biological parents. The biological parents are parents for the rest of the children's lives, and it may be that while they are children the child is placed elsewhere and that the biological family plays a different role from that which it does in most families, but the biological family is always there and plays a role in children's lives always. And there we must be much better at helping and supporting the biological families as a society, both with the social problems they have, but also at becoming better parents and at making the association that is with their children work optimally. And then, of course, there are a few cases where you have to cut the connection completely. Of course they exist, but in the vast majority of cases it is the child's best interests that the biological parents will function as well as possible. Although there are currently rights for biological parents, we know that most of them do not actually receive those rights and that they do not live up to the support and help that is needed. I think there is a long way to go, but with this resolution we are going some way, but I have the feeling that when there is a need for very major changes, there is such a state duvet that is being put across things. It is as if the device can cope with such minor adjustments, but when you say from a political point of view that there are fundamental problems here, a duvet is being put over it. And in fact, for precisely that reason, I believe that the fact that it is an external expert group is quite brilliant, and in that it comes in combination with the fact that some thoughts are being thought in the ministry, we get the best of both worlds. For of course, the Ministry can do some things that an external group cannot do, but I should say that my experience in the social field is that sometimes the system and the state apparatus need a loving lynchpin, and I think we politicians and the system have that in order to make a major reform of this area. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203406	There were many rapporteurs! Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, you have to say yes to that. We have a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go. I'm sorry, I'm a little in doubt: was there a brief remark on your part, too, Karina Adsbøl? 'Cause I'll give you the first one. It went off the screen because we had some technical problems here. Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203426	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that the Social Democratic Party and all other opposition parties support this proposal and can see that it is necessary precisely in relation to the adjustments we have made together in the context of the pool of rates. That is a good thing, but we are far, far from achieving it. I would like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, how she thinks we ensure this quality assurance of section 50 studies and action plans, and that children's conversations should not just end up as a flybone. What does the rapporteur have in mind? How do we ensure this quality of business? After all, we saw in the City of Copenhagen that the citizen counselor was out to say, to make harsh criticism that there were errors in all the 77 placement cases the citizen counselor had investigated. That was really harsh criticism. So how do we move on? Now we hope that this work will be undertaken, and we await that, of course, but what have the thoughts of it been?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203534	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203536	Now there has been such a number war about whether it was actually 45 per cent. cases which had not responded to repeated serious notifications, or not. Let's just say 30, because I don't want the numbers war, and that's not really important. For the fact that there are errors in one hundred percent of the children's cases in the City of Copenhagen, and the fact that it is not just, let us say, 30 per cent, not to discuss figures, in repeated serious notifications, that is to say, where children have been subjected to violence and what is worse, and by several rounds have been notified on the Internet, I think, in the first place, that we should say, it was a lot, if it were in 5%. cases of non-response. That would be too much. Well, that would be completely wrong. So there is something to say: we want to go somewhere where the margin of error is as low as it is when we make legislation that you have to teach mathematics in second grade in primary school, because then we actually expect that to happen. And one of the tools for this is that we in the Social Democratic Party are establishing a new welfare institution which brings together the professionalism that exists about the early efforts in the families. We have called it family houses, and that should not be translated, because in some municipalities you have something called the same thing. But the idea is to take all the professional groups we have to deal with children from ergotherapists across child experts to psychologists, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203648	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203649	Thank you for your answer. I thought that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil could certainly, indeed, isolate her house with all the files that the rapporteur probably has in this area. The Minister for Social Affairs was talking about individual cases. Does the rapporteur for the Socialist Group agree that this is not just a matter of individual cases but simply a question of the need for a change of culture in this area? These individual cases are not a single matter; they are true.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203729	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203730	Well, I mean, it's just a system failure. It's not to blame someone who sits in the system for the foster families that are and the employees who are out there are working a little bit out of their pants to make these things hang around the kids. It is a political responsibility. So when I say system failure, it is simply a question of us not being the political task of caring for the children who are placed today, grown up. That is why reform is needed. So I very much agree that this translates into a lot of individual cases, but what it reflects are some quite serious problems and one of them has helped to resolve today. But it leaves us with another 30 maybe quite large blocks that need to be changed before we are in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203812	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203814	Thank you. That is, when the rapporteur says state duvet, I get such a picture from when I was a child, when we read some children's book I don't remember if it was the Snap where they talked about the IRS as such some horrible monster, because they didn't know what the IRS was. I'm just getting a picture that this government duvet is such a big, heavy, gray cloud hanging over us. And, of course, we should not belittle the employees who are doing their very best every day, but I do share that view with the Social Democrats. But I always get so worried when you say from the Social Democrats that you want more placements. Can the rapporteur put a few more words on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425203851	The reason I'm just giggling is because we've really had this conversation many times with each other. And that is really one of the reasons why I am very pleased with the Danish people's rule. Because each of us has our own area where we are very concerned about what each other says, and I think that helps to ensure that the legislation we are making hits the issues properly. When I say more placements, and when we do so in the Social Democratic Party, it is because a large study has been carried out in TUBA, those who have to do with young people who have grown up in alcohol families, who show that two thirds of the young people who have grown up with parents who drink too much would have liked to have had some more support, they would have liked to have some who saw them, but they would not have been placed. But that leaves us with a third that says directly that they would have liked to have been placed. Some of them probably rationalize in the wrong way; I should not be able to reject that at all, but in my opinion and in the view of the Social Democrats, it should make all the alarm bells jam. There is a group of children who feel completely overlooked. It is likely to be voluntary placements; it may be with some relief; it may be family settings. So what we mean by that is not that we suddenly have to go into many, many compulsions against the will of the family and the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204000	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204001	Thank you. Makes me feel a little comfortable. I would then like to hear the rapporteur's comments on the competences of the case workers, who are, at any rate, my position might well be upgraded somewhat. And then I would like to ask whether the children and young people's committee are the right place to have that decision. As far as I am concerned, it is often where things go completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204028	I am simply in doubt about the latter and that is one of the reasons why I think it is a good idea with this group of experts. And by the way, I also appreciated reading Justitia's report very much. I have been visiting at least 20 different places in Denmark after writing a book about among others. the housing area. And it is obvious that in some places it works very well with children and youth committees, but it is also obvious that very many places do not. And that's not gonna work. That is to say, I think we should go in and take that ball up in the air, and then we should examine it to the bottom with, among other things. The group of experts that we are discussing here today and then we must have an open-minded debate on it instead of just staying in a system that we all know to be seriously flawed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I do not think anyone has spoken on behalf of the Left yet, so now Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen allowed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204120	Thank you. I am replacing our rapporteur in this area. To begin with, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party. This is an important issue that is being addressed here today, namely our children. In this case, it's about situations where it's gone terribly wrong and placement comes up. There are plenty of challenges in the system, but let me make one thing clear: a poor placement is too much. That is why we support the idea of the motion for a resolution, namely that we must constantly seek to improve the quality of the case and the location of the case. This is about some of the most vulnerable children and young people in our society, and we have a special responsibility for them. That is why the government has already taken a number of initiatives. In the context of the cohesion reform, we took the initiative for a coal-mining of efforts with regard to children and young people. The aim is to ensure a higher quality and improve legal certainty through the review of existing legislation in this area. I believe that we have already set in motion forward-looking initiatives and processes which will ensure an improvement in the location area. The Left therefore considers the setting up of a group of experts to be inappropriate. We do this because, in setting up a group of experts in the field of placement, we can create duplication of work which does not necessarily improve the opportunities for help for children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204254	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204301	Thank you. I very much agree with the wish of the Danish People's Party to strengthen the quality of placement cases in this country. It is, after all, about the legal certainty of citizens, which is a subject of great concern to the Liberal Alliance. We must be able to rely on the decisions taken by the authorities, and perhaps particularly on something as intrusive as the placement of children. I also know that it is high on the government's agenda, as can be seen from the Minister's review of the initiatives taken in this area during this period of government, including a pitfall of efforts for vulnerable children and young people, which is part of the government's cohesion reform. It is very important that the quality in this area is as high as possible. It is important for children to be removed from their parents, but it is at least as important that children who are not to be removed should not be removed. And it is so easy to make wrong decisions in such an important area as this, and there are not many other places where wrong decisions can have such fatal consequences for people. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that I agree with the Minister that it does not make sense to have two parallel processes which both intend to examine quality in this area. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204459	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief last-minute comment was made to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204506	Does the rapporteur not agree that it is not the same thing that is going to happen in relation to this group of experts? Because this group of experts includes the people it's about and the people who work with it every day. The other one's a whole different thing. So, as the Socialist rapporteur said, a combination would be very good, bringing together the recommendations of this group of experts and then what comes into the internal cohesion reform that is being examined in relation to that part. Then you get the greatest knowledge base you can get to make some really good decisions on. Does the alternative rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204550	Rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance. Karina Adsbøl Sorry! ) Well, that's okay. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur has the impression that the coal excavation is part of the government's cohesion reform and that the two things work together. That is why I would like to await the outcome of that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204613	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204614	So how many independent people are involved in what the government is working with? So, is it about hearing the children placed there? Do you hear Justitia? Do you hear all the experts working on this area? How do they get involved in this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204631	I am confident that the government will involve the relevant parties in the matter, and I agree with Mrs Adsbøl on that, because you cannot just sit down and do a desk job. After all, it is important to hear the people who deal with it every day and who each day feel on their own body what these things mean to people, and I am confident that the government does too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204658	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204700	But will the rapporteur not acknowledge that the part that is called reality is somehow missing? For those from whom we are approached, the very families that are affected are the foster families from which the child placed with them is suddenly removed and placed with them throughout the child's life. These are the people we hear from, and it is, of course, like the aspect that is missing if you have such an internal ministerial group to look at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204729	I believe that reality is very important. I'm actually part of the reality, I haven't been a foster child, but I've grown up with foster kids, my parents have had foster kids, and I've shared almost my whole life and my youth with foster kids, and have seen wrong decisions, have fortunately also seen good decisions, and therefore I think it's very important that you include reality in this. However, as I said, I am also confident that the Minister will do so and that the work that is being undertaken will involve reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204803	Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204805	But the reality that is often used when you are on the level that you are on here in the Danish Parliament and over in the ministries is often the top link, and what we a little miss in the Danish People's Party is that you go all the way to the link that is the foster families, talk to them and involve them with the professionals who deal directly with it. This is, of course, the link that we at least think is part of what is missing, and then again this aspect of looking at the competences of the case workers and looking at the competences of the Committee on Children and Young People and such things. Otherwise, you'll just get top-level experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204840	I agree with that and, as I said, I am confident that the whole spectrum will be taken into account when doing this coal digging.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204848	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we move on to Mrs Birgitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425204900	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for presenting this resolution, which helps us to have a discussion on how we can focus on children's and young people's issues and strengthen the quality and legal certainty of children and parents in the placement cases. Vulnerable children and young people's conditions are an important area for us in the Conservative People's Party. For us, it is important to ensure that all children get a good start in life, where they develop and thrive, especially those children who have difficult conditions from the start of life. And there is room for improvement in the efforts of the municipalities for vulnerable children and young people. We have therefore also been pleased to note that the government has initiated a coal excavation in connection with inter alia. the cohesion reform and changes in the composition of children and young people's committees in the municipalities and also a study on how to strengthen the quality and legal certainty of vulnerable children and young people. We do not therefore think it appropriate to have a parallel coal excavation alongside it. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here, even though its intentions are good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425205023	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425205047	In Roskilde there lives a family that has been torn apart and reunited. The Commune was wrong: Kevin and Catrine's daughter were forcibly removed from the neonatal ward. Six months later, they got their daughter back. It describes an article from DR from 5 June 2018 and according to the article, the court emphasized that the municipality had not tried to help the family before forced removal, as well as the positive statements of the hospital staff who made the impact, and the young couple got their daughter back home. Can you imagine how terrible that must be? Several media, Justitia's report and several personal inquiries, several members of the Social Committee show that it lags enormously in the area of placement, and we can also see this from the 2017 internal report from the City of Copenhagen, which shows errors in all placement cases. Justitia's report describes that in 2017 alone 54 per cent was spent. of the decisions complained of have been reversed. In this session we had convened the Minister in several consultations. One deal was made, among other things. on families who have children with autism and who experienced municipal threats to the placement of their children. Three to five times a week, the National Association of Autism receives inquiries from families who find that the municipality is threatening the placement of their disabled child. Subsequently, I have also received several requests that it was not only parents who had children with autism who experienced it, but that there were also many others who experienced it. In the Danish People's Party, we want the government to set up by the summer of 2019 a rapid-working group of experts for precisely a coal-mining of the location area, and the expert group will also examine how legal certainty for children, parents, foster parents and children's networks is also ensured, and how the quality of the proceedings and the exercise of authority is ensured, including whether the case workers have a sufficiently high professional level and whether the children and young people's committees of the municipalities are the right ones to make these decisions on placements, or whether it would be better to place competence in, for example, the Danish People's Party. the new family law system. The expert group shall be widely composed of professionals, organisations, former members and others with special expertise in the field of placement, and the composition of the expert group, the deadline for the submission of the report by the expert group and the report and recommendations of the expert group shall then be submitted to the parties supporting this proposal and subsequently negotiated. In the Danish People's Party we are deeply concerned about what is going on in the area of housing, and we have also raised our concerns repeatedly. We have called the current Minister for Social Affairs for questions debates repeatedly, including about the implementation of the Children's Reform, as well as several consultations, consultation in placement cases and also in relation to discussing cleancut removals, as it is called in the environment. In the Danish People's Party, we find it extremely important to continue to focus on this area and to improve it, to benefit the children, their family, the foster families and the network. The overall objective of the child's reform at the time of its adoption was to ensure continuity of placement, to ensure a stable and close adult contact for vulnerable children, to strengthen the interests of the child, to safeguard the rights of vulnerable children, to ensure early action and to ensure more quality both in the case and in the action. We often experience the exact opposite, which is why we are also really concerned about system failure, even though we in the Danish Parliament have taken a great many initiatives following the child's reform, which should make things better. For the Danish People's Party, it is not about whether you are for or against placements or how many are to be placed. It is for us that it is the right children who are being placed and that it is on a documented and enlightened basis. We recently called the Minister for Social Affairs in consultation precisely because of the problem of remuneration, the problem of remuneration, which we have discussed repeatedly, and I remember, in fact, that former Minister Karen Hækkerrup started a study on the issue of remuneration at the time. But this was about a dispute between a municipality and the foster parents, and you would then force a 12-year-old boy into an institution. ▪ It scares me, was the headline of the article from TV 2/East on January 22, 2019. The case of Andreas, which has been highlighted in the media, is not a unique case, and many foster families have been able to report that they have been told that if they could not accept a wage reduction, another location could be found for their foster child, and it can never be in the best interests of the child. Yes, I am also aware of KL's announcement today that KL will recommend the municipalities to use the so-called average model for the remuneration of foster families. Unfortunately, in the Danish People's Party we also often experience cases where siblings are not placed together, what else is the purpose of the law. We often experience that the association between children and their family or networks or other associates, e.g. also a former foster family, being reduced to a minimum or being cut completely away on the grounds that it is for the sake of the child's health and well-being that it should not be in contact. Then we also find that young people and children are often not heard in relation to their wishes or their needs, and studies have also shown this. The Jutland West Coast has recently written about the soon 18-year-old Stella, who has several times escaped from his institution and just wants to stay with his father. Unfortunately, we also find that early action is not being implemented quickly enough or at all in relation to the prevention clause of the Service Act. We experience a lack of quality assurance in section 50 studies, in parental competence studies and in children's conversations, which should not just be a fly bone. We also often hear about experiences with threats of coercion, and we hear about missing party hearings and much more. We also hear that family members are denied the right to be a network care family, something that we in the Danish People's Party have had a great deal of focus on, i.e. to use the resourceful network, and then I would say that if you read "Swiss of children in Denmark" from the Children's Terms and the TrygFonden, it is also worrying reading. For example: every other child from 11 to 17 years of age says that they are not taken on board in relation to their location. Some of what is also extremely important is in relation to parents who have children with disabilities, or parents who have a disability and who have also often approached us with challenges. For example: the situation of parents with disabilities is that they cannot get the help they need to take care of their parent role. We see parents with disabilities who find it difficult to perform their parenting role, for example. in the area of bpa, citizen-controlled personal assistance, as they either cannot be awarded the scheme or their number of hours reduced, and this creates a lot of challenges and concerns for families who cannot get the help in everyday life that they need to get the family to function. It also makes it very difficult if you do not get the help and support, because it risks hurting the children, and it can ultimately end up with notifications and the start-up of various studies, and that is not fair. We have also seen that a foster parent's comments can have a high price. We have, for example. recently seen and read in the media that a foster mother, Jaleh Tavakoli, who is a hard-working debater in the public debate, has received a request from the Social Inspectorate East because of her comments, and Social Inspectorate East justifies in the statement that they have acted because of the views of the foster mother in the public debate. This is a matter that we follow very much in the Danish People's Party, because where is the child's best interests and is a child's attachment to their carers weighed sufficiently high in these cases? We have also heard about foster families who have had their foster children removed precisely because of accusations that have later proved to be out of hand, foster children who have lived several years with the same foster family, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party believe that there should be a cultural change in this area, and we hope that together we can find some good solutions in this area, solutions where the child is always at the centre, and that the right and early efforts are being made for the children and their families and foster families. Children and young people must never become an economic pawn, and I believe we are obliged to act. These are not individual cases, and I think I could isolate a whole house with the requests I have made in this area. I would also like to thank the entire opposition for their support for this. I am very pleased that we have a majority in favour of this resolution, and I have to say that I am deeply surprised that one can be against hearing others, that one involves children, foster children, children previously placed in this group of experts, that one involves experts who work in the area and who are not part of a ministerial system but who have some other competences that we can use in our political work. I must say that I am deeply surprised, but I am very pleased with the majority we have gathered today, and I am very grateful to the Danish People's Party, and we also expect that the government will act in relation to this when there is a majority behind the resolution. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210056	There is one brief comment, and that concludes the debate. Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210101	Thank you. One error in the procedure is an error too much, there should be no doubt about that. Every day there are some employees in the municipalities, most of them trained social workers, with these placement cases, where most of them really are passionate about making a difference for these children and have just sought such a job because they are passionate about doing something for children who have difficult conditions. For me, it sounds a little bit as if the Danish People's Party does not trust the many thousands of social workers who sit around the municipalities and work on these cases. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210149	I am very sorry that the Conservative rapporteur has not heard my speech. I didn't hang out any social workers. I am well aware that the social workers who work are doing their best, but one just has to recognise that this is also a culture that is in an administration; it is a matter of visible management; it is a matter of prioritising this area and not pressing the social workers. Now it has also become the case that social workers are gradually unable to make a decision on their own until it has to reach a higher level of management, so we need to get much higher in the system in order to bring about a change in culture in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210227	However, the rapporteur himself asked a question earlier in this debate to one of the rapporteurs on the platform, where the 50 studies and the examination of the 50 studies were just mentioned. And that's what the counsellors are doing. It is also the case that many of them around the municipalities have too many cases, because the individual municipality may not have given priority to this area. Has the Danish People's Party thought that this could also be due to the fact that the municipalities are not good enough to give priority to this area, where they put budgets every eternal year, and then they do not get the right money off, so the case workers do not have so many cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210317	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210318	Then we are back to the whole management issue again, and then we are back to some local politicians. What this is about when we talk about social workers sitting with this is that there is no requirement that it should be a trained social worker sitting with these 50-studies. I have been asked that it is uneducated, someone who is in education or others who do not, you might say, the ballast, the knowledge or the skills that are needed. That's why there's a need to talk about who it is that actually has to sit with these cases, what kind of skills they need to have to deal with these tough cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210356	Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil has also asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210400	What really leads me to speak now is because Mrs Karina Adsbøl has had so many consultations on the exact issue of local authorities. Yes, there are huge problems with the municipalities, and we've been talking about it up posts and down walls. It's not that the social workers are stupid or evil. This is because of the framework we have given them, and I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that we have actually tried to do quite a lot of work to get the government to ask the municipalities to correct, and we have not received any kind of positive response in this area from the government. So even the tools you have in here centrally have not had a desire to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210447	The Socialist rapporteur is absolutely right about this, and if I take a case from my speech, in which I read up precisely in relation to this mistake, where Kevin and Catrine's daughter were removed: she was forcibly removed for six months without being with her mother and father, and how much does it cost? How much does it cost to commit wrongdoing that has great human costs? Time and again we have had a discussion about periodic penalty payments, about the need for the municipalities to correct the situation. Now it may sound as if all municipalities are worse ones, and I would hurry to say that this is not the case. But we just have to acknowledge that when we get so many inquiries in this area, when we see these documentary broadcasts, when we see the Michael Lambert case from Esbjerg, which was pulled from his foster family, which is a stable and good foster family, and all he wants is just to stay here and where there's no reason why he has to leave suddenly, we have to react in here from the Folketing. What I constantly have a question about is: why can we break the law in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210553	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210555	Then there was just the second part to that, with that we have actually used together, all the parties except Enhedslisten have a great deal of effort to get half the number of cases on the caseworker's table, and we have succeeded in over 40 municipalities now, simply recognising that if you have too much work, you cannot deliver as good an effort. It is a completely impossible task to put the social workers on. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm this by saying that we agree that more children are still being placed away in January than they are in December, and that is just because we still have a financial framework in the municipalities that they have to live up to, and that means that the problem, of course, is not the caseworker...
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210633	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210635	I fully agree with that with regard to the financial framework. This is something we have to look at. After all, we still have to do the compensatory reform in which the negotiations went smoothly. There is also a budget law that could be addressed in relation to whether there should be some adjustments in relation to the financial framework of the municipalities. So there are actually a lot of things we need to get to grips with and do better in this area and all the way around. Because it is about families and children, and that is where we are obliged to make the very best effort that we can make at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210709	Then we thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190425210723	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 26 April 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
