ParlaMint-DK_20190424130043	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 227 (Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure, the Law on Competition and Consumer Relations in the Telecommunications Market, the Law on Arms, the Extradition Act and the Law on Extradition of Violators to Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. Bill No. L 228 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the administration of justice for Greenland. Minister for Children and Social Affairs (Mai Mercado): Bill No. L 229 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Bill No. L 230 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 231 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written regional and rural policy statement 2019 R 18). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 20 May 2019. The European Committee has provided: Report on previous information on EU cases and lists of cases pending to a greater extent following new elections. 10). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. Then I shall tell you that those of Kaare Dybvad under No. Question No 4 and 5 S 790 and S 791 to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing are deleted at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130256	Then we are ready to move on to the first item on the agenda, and that is the answer to questions forwarded to the ministers, the so-called Question Time. The first question is to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs and she is here. The questioner is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF, who will shortly come up here and read his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130319	Thank you. The question is this: will the Minister, following on from the Minister's reply to questions of consultation V, SOU, Alm? on 19 March 2019 regarding the lack of funding for monitoring under Section 95 of the Social Services Act for young people over 18 years of age with severe physical and mental disabilities, indicate when negotiations between the Government and the KL are expected to be completed, and whether the government, as a result of the clear commitment of the Left Government back from 2016 and the Minister's agreement on the consultation that we have a major problem that should be resolved, will raise the matter in the financial negotiations of the year with KL if no solution has been found by then?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130402	Then it is the Minister's turn to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130404	Thank you for the question. And yes, we have a major problem and it is also a problem that needs to be resolved. I take this surveillance issue very seriously. After all, this is a group of vulnerable citizens who need a great deal of help and support for almost everything in their everyday lives and who have relatives who make a huge effort every day to take care of their family members. We're really glad they do. The type of grant or assistance provided is, after all, a cash grant within the meaning of Article 90 (1) of the Services Act. 3, an aid scheme in which aid is measured on the basis of the needs of the citizen as a whole. I would just like to stress that there has never been a legal basis for measuring hours for monitoring in the scheme, and that is what the ruling of the Court of Justice back in 2015 stated. The Ministry has, back in 2017, prepared a study on the consequences of two possible solutions that have been discussed with KL. Since these discussions have not led to a solution, we are still in dialogue with the KL. I would like to say quite openly that these are some very difficult discussions between the Ministry and the KL, but I can also guarantee that work will be very hard to find a solution. I just dare not say anything about the timing of the end of those discussions. However, when we have clarity about a possible solution and the economic consequences, I am, of course, open to discussing possible ways of providing funding. In fact, I think that a lot of people would have thrown the towel in the ring earlier. That is why I could be interested in the other way around, so to hear how hard SF will push if government power should go to change. Because I am not sure that with the government that will sit, we will actually have a Minister for Social Affairs who will take this issue seriously. So how hard will the SF push? How high is this on the list of priorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130558	Now it is fortunate that I am allowed to ask the questions today, but it may be that we may be allowed to exchange roles at some point. Until then, I think that if the price really means something and I understand that things aren't free, it would have been considerably cheaper, according to my calculator, if you had carried on this monitoring solution, which has after all been used once. This is certainly the case with the Minister's own reply, that the cheapest model compared to surveillance would have cost 49,000 DKK, the most expensive model 63,000 DKK, while the price, if you had chosen a settlement offer instead, would have been between 75,000 DKK. and 91,000 kroner. So in any case, the monitoring solution would have been cheaper. When it is not cheaper for the municipalities, it is because the state subsidy comes with a settlement offer. So how hard can it be to use a solution where one chooses to say that the state subsidy must, of course, follow the solution that is right for the citizen concerned and for just the very few, but exceptionally vulnerable, disabled children who need to live at home for a long time, perhaps even always? When the solution is so simple because the price is so obviously possible to relate to, why not just change the state subsidy so that it once and for all follows the needs of the child and not what we happen to have just written into the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130737	It is said here that it is cheaper to continue what was. But what was wasn't legal. That is what the ruling of the Court of Justice stated, namely that it was not legal and that there was no legal basis. That is why we cannot say on a factual basis that we can only continue to do so, because we must not do so. Then I know there is a desire to say that monitoring is cheaper than moving on a settlement offer, but you just can't count it that way either. It is not possible to calculate the costs in this way. That is why we cannot simply say that it is cheaper. On the other hand, I would actually like to sign for the DF-SF proposal that has come in, where you go in and look at the fact that it can then be in a limited period, that is, as I understand it, you should be able to provide a monitoring for young people from 18 years of age and for a period of 5 years. I just have to say that some of the things we're looking at right now and discussing with KL are exactly alternative models. And finally, in reality, just a praise while speaking time runs out, because I am really, really happy that both Dansk Folkeparti and SF have a thread for this matter, because this is a very important matter. It is important for a great many people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130839	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130839-2	We think so ourselves, and there is especially the strange situation, that when we talk about the weakest citizens, on their 18th birthday they can actually be forced to move to an institution because parents will have to throw the towel in the ring because we have not created a legal basis to continue monitoring for the very handicapped child after the 18th year. And yes, I also think that a solution could be a temporary arrangement, but how hard could it be to get the law to be in line with the need that we all agree there is? Because if the Minister agrees, should we not just bring the law into line with what should be the right solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424130920	There was nothing I would rather than bring the law into line with it. But the rapporteur knows just as well as I do that it costs a great deal of money because it is a task which will be imposed on all municipalities. And then it may well be that there are some who, before the ruling of the Court of Justice, have taken that task on themselves, even if there has been no legal basis for it. But that will mean that we have to compensate the municipalities, because that is how the dut principle is screwed up. At least I do not see that we can provide such a large financial framework. But that's exactly why we look into the alternative models. Because that's some of what's important to me as a politician. I mean, I'm conservative, and family policy is really, really important. And when I hear the reports about families that have to say goodbye to a family member who has to be placed in an institution because you are not allowed to be monitored, then it cuts deep into the heart. And we are in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131014	The questioner with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131015	But it's already gonna cost you. The institution center costs. It is more expensive than if surveillance had continued. And so it is true that many parents have solved the problem in a different way, and of course it is not calculated into the equation. But the summa summarum may amount to 25 million. kr. I mean, shouldn't we be able to find the small amount of money we need to solve this problem, which we are so agreed must be solved? And does the Minister really think that is part of this, at least in relation to the financial law negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131052	It's a much bigger amount we're looking into. So, Deloitte's report, which has looked at two solutions, goes from the fact that it costs 80-90 million. kr. a year, which is the smallest model, and then all the way up to the very large model, which costs several hundred million kroner per year. That is also why, in the discussions with the KL, we are looking at whether we can contain it in any way, so that we can keep our hands on the people who are young people living at home and who may not be ready to move to an institution. And then I know that intuitively it doesn't make sense that you pay more for a place on a room offer compared to surveillance, but I just can't do the math where you give a little and take a little. And that's exactly what makes this problem difficult and still difficult. The question is whether there is a will to resolve it after an election. If the Reds win the power of government, at least I can have my doubts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131147	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. That was the end of the first question, and before we move on to the next question, I would like to take a minute to explain what is really happening down here. I see there are many guests today. It is the case that on Friday noon all Members of Parliament have the right to put up two questions to a minister, whom they then have the right to receive an answer on Wednesday during Question Time. It is the case that the question should be submitted in writing on Friday afternoon, and then it is also the same question that needs to be read up here for a start. After that, the Member of Parliament can ask for detailed answers. First the person gets 2 minutes and then you get two times 1⁄2 minutes to ask questions in. And then the Minister has to extemporate and answer on the stand. That's what you've just seen happen. Then we can take an advanced model, and we have to see it now. There's a questioner, and he's brought an enquirer with him. The questioner's name is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, and the co-questioner is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, and she sits there waiting. She gets to ask two questions in the middle of it all. That is when you want to be very thorough and ask the Minister very thorough questions. And the minister they want to ask questions about is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. He's ready to respond over there. So now we hear which question the Minister has to answer. It's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who reads it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131313	Thank you for that, the stage is set. Does the Minister believe that building Baltic Pipe will benefit the climate effort so that Poland can use fossil gas from Norway until 2063 when the EU's climate planning is aimed at achieving the EU's zero emission range by 2050?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131333	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Egge Rasmussen and let me add, in relation to the President's remarks, that if all 179 Members asked two such questions on Wednesday afternoon, it would probably be late before the President came home. But thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. Let me start by stating that Baltic Pipe supports the green transition. Firstly, Poland today has a very high and polluting consumption of coal. Coal accounts for about 80%. of electricity generation, and with Baltic Pipe some of this can be replaced with natural gas, which emits half as much CO2 In the business case for Baltic Pipe there is as an example that if just 10%. of the natural gas from Baltic Pipe goes to replace coal or oil outside the power plant and transport sector, it will have a CO2 tonne per year. Secondly, Baltic Pipe is a new and stable gas connection that gives Poland security so that they can invest in green conversion and renewable energy. They are reluctant to do so today when their gas comes from unsafe deliveries in Russia. It would, of course, be desirable for Poland to take the step from dependence on coal and directly to renewable energy such as sun and wind. Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not realistic. Poland has a completely different energy mix than we have in Denmark. Therefore, gas via Baltic Pipe is a good and fast stepping stone in Poland's green transition. Thirdly, Baltic Pipe can support increased use of biogas and other green gases in Denmark through stable tariffs. It is also good for the green transition. With the energy agreement, the Folketing agrees that we must work towards achieving net zero emissions of greenhouse gases by 2050 at the latest in Denmark and the EU. This means that we will not emit any more CO2 Baltic Pipe, either contrary to the energy agreement or to our work in the European Union, even if we hopefully succeed in convincing the rest of the European Union of a target of net zero emissions by 2050 at the latest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131543	Thank you. Well, I would have liked us to go into a process in which we helped Poland and other European countries to convert to renewable energy. I don't think those maths are good enough. We have a Paris agreement that says that we need to reduce our climate load and that we need to try to keep the temperature on the planet so that it does not rise by more than 1.5 degrees. So this is not done by cementing the use of fossil energy. I think it is quite grotesque that we are dealing here with a gas pipeline, which has only been written off in 2053, and which can of course be used up to 2063 and that is at a time when we need to phase out fossil energy sources. I think it is a misinvestment, and so it is the consumers who are going to pay for this misinvestment. Instead, I think that we should invest in quite different investments that could promote renewable energy, which could encourage us to come up with comprehensive solutions that will benefit the climate. It is as if Denmark here is a stepping stone in Polish energy policy. And I understand that Poland would like to have some energy supplies from other places than Russia. In this way, this is very much a foreign policy, and it is also foreign policy because it has to do with the Paris Agreement. Now the Minister mentions that there are some positive effects because in Denmark you can transport green gas in this pipeline, but we are dealing with a gas pipeline that can transport four times as much gas as we are currently using in Denmark. And on that basis, I would like to hear from the Minister whether this gas pipeline is not mistaken, because if we were to take the view that we would like to promote some green gas, would it not be somewhere else to expand our gas network rather than such a pipeline that goes from the west coast of Jutland to Næstved and on to Poland?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131752	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. It is not the Danish consumers who are going to pay for this gas pipeline. With the agreement in place, it will be Poland and the Polish consumers who will be financing the establishment of this gas pipeline over the tariff that Poland will have to pay to use the network. This means a total gain for Danish gas consumers of 1 billion. kr. over the period, which means that there is indeed an opportunity to reduce the network tariff of Danish gas consumers over the period. At the same time, there is also a socio-economic gain of 2 billion. kr. on this project. Then it is clear that if there was no wish for it from Poland, and if the situation had not arisen that the Poles and Poland had informed Denmark and others that from 2022 they will be cut off from natural gas from Russia, then of course this wire would not have come up for discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131850	So we're dealing with a wire that has the history that it's not a Danish wish at all that this gas pipeline should be set up. And when you get a call, you just say yes. It seems as if there is no decision-making power in Denmark here. I also think that there is a lack of democracy in this matter. After all, it is the Minister who alone can get these processes going when it is investments of over 200 million. kr. I think it would be fair for us to have a political involvement of the Folketing, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether there should be a better and more democratic process when making this kind of major investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424131930	Thank you for the question. It is not the case that we in the Danish Government have just agreed to this project. It is clear that there is a question about Poland's ability to secure gas supplies in the future, but there are also some advantages for Denmark, on the one hand, by giving us a network and an opportunity to draw on natural gas from countries other than we do today, and, on the other hand, by allowing us to reduce the Danish natural gas tariff. However, with regard to the political process, it has followed the legislation in this area. The case has also been submitted to the Danish Parliament's Energy, Supply and Climate Committee, where there has been an orientation I believe even up to twice, perhaps even several times. And the questioner also has the opportunity to bring this up both in the energy conciliation circle and in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132021	Then we move on to the co-questioner, Mrs Eva Flyvholm, also Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132027	Thank you. One of the things that beats me when you look at this project is that it's huge and it's going to last so many years. It's as far as 2063 that you expect this wire to deliver gas to Poland. I do not think this is related to the fact that, at the same time, we have an objective that we should step out of fossil fuels as quickly as possible, that we will also have a zero-emission society by 2050 at EU level. It just doesn't make any sense. I think you put such a big investment in fossil energy. I understand the challenge of this being a major shift from coal to renewable energy, but that is exactly where we should go in from Denmark to help Poland in that transition to achieve it, because this is not sustainable when you look at it in the long run. I would like to hear from the Minister about this, whether Denmark could have said no to this project. Can we still say no? I think that is a very important point to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132128	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132130	It is clear, of course, that Denmark has the opportunity to say to and from on a project of this nature. This requires Danish support if you are to have the opportunity to establish this gas pipeline. Then, in relation to Mrs Eva Flyvholm's question, I would say that Poland is quite different from Denmark in terms of energy terms. I have had several opportunities to meet my Polish colleague. After all, Poland is not at all in the same gear as we are in relation to green conversion. It is not realistic that Poland should switch its entire energy supply from one day to the next to the sun and wind. There's a very, very long way to go. By giving it this opportunity to draw on natural gas from the North Sea, Poland will actually be able to put more fuel into the green transition, since it is the case that natural gas emits about half as much CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132231	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132233	But if we look a little further ahead of 2030, the problem is precisely that this gas pipeline is fixing the consumption of fossil fuels for the next 30 years. That's a very long perspective. There I would like to hear the Minister for Energy: frankly, is it appropriate for Poland to have as much of its energy consumption from fossil fuels, from natural gas in 2040, for example, as this is supposed to do? Is it appropriate to achieve the green transition?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132302	Once again, thank you to Mrs Flyvholm. This is appropriate in relation to Poland's green conversion. It is because this is a stepping stone in relation to Poland being able to find a solution which is far more environmentally friendly, which has a much lower CO2 Poland standing elsewhere than Denmark when it comes to energy policy and the share of renewable energy, and therefore it can contribute here. I also know from my Polish colleague that Poland is very advanced with plans to supplement this investment with investments in wind and perhaps even in solar and other forms of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132346	Then we turn to the main questioner who has a final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132353	I think it is a grotesque case where it is becoming increasingly clear that this is a Polish gas pipeline which is planned across Denmark and where the answer here today clearly indicates that it is not something Denmark gets anything out of. It is something about the possibility of getting something out of the gas pipeline in the future, but I think that the answer here clearly shows that having such a huge gas pipeline across Denmark that we can get to use is not something that is an investment that Denmark will benefit from. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132430	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132432	I don't agree with that, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen in, on the one hand, contributes to lower and lower network tariffs and, on the other hand, ensures security of supply. I have had an experience of the fact that Enhedslisten is a party of solidarity which is engaged in solidarity also across borders. This gas pipeline is also about helping the Poles in a very, very squeezed situation where they are cut off from having the opportunity to get Russian natural gas. I believe that we have an obligation to help neighbouring countries in such a situation as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132507	Thank you. That is all it could be in question 2. We shall now proceed to Question 3 and there is the same Minister, and the questioner is also here, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, and the co-questioner is also here Mrs Eva Flyvholm from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132525	For a start, we need to hear the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132527	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that Danish consumers should pay 6.3 billion? kr. to a gas pipeline between Norway and Poland, from which Danish gas consumers do not benefit, and how many communities are bothered by the fact that a 230 km gas pipeline is dug down, and a large compressor station with noise nuisances must bother a local area at Næstved when Baltic Pipe is not part of a sustainable energy policy in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132554	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. It is important to stress that Baltic Pipe benefits Danish gas consumers financially and that they do not have to pay 6.3 billion. kr. In fact, it is expected that Danish gas consumers will save around 1 billion overall. kr. Baltic Pipe contributes to the stability of gas tariffs in Denmark. This is due to Polish payments to have natural gas transported from the North Sea down to Poland. Poland has already entered into binding contracts for payments, and Danish gas consumers must therefore together not have money out of their pockets. Then there is the question of nuisances for affected citizens. I am very aware that a project of this magnitude cannot, unfortunately, avoid causing discomfort locally. I have therefore continually called on Energinet to engage in dialogue and to show local concerns. Energy networks have met in person with the approx. 500 pilots to ensure as gentle a route as possible, seven citizens' meetings were held in March and minor adjustments were made to the route on the basis of the dialogue. Fortunately, the pipes are in the ground and will be invisible once laid. Unfortunately, regarding the compressor station on South Zealand, there is no perfect location for such a facility where no one will experience genes. However, the proposed location is the least burdensome for the environment and citizens. It's up the highway, and it'll be surrounded by trees. Energy networks have informed me that once it is built, there will be no odours or tremors, and the Environmental Protection Agency's indicative noise limits are respected. The only significant noise contribution comes from a ventilation chimney when the service is short ventilated. This will only occur in approx. 15 minutes in the daytime a few times a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132749	Thank you. As a follow-up to the question, I can say that in the Enhedslisten we would very much like to have solidarity with other countries, and we would very much like to contribute to the Danish experience of building a renewable energy system that works every day and that has safe supplies of both gas and electricity and heat, being an export article that the Minister could lead instead of the fossil energy supply from Norway to Poland. I think this case also shows that we have a shortage in our planning in Denmark. In other words, we have Energinet, which has to deal with planning lines that can be both gas and electricity, but which does not focus on the fact that we are facing another global energy system, where we have to manage that there will be more and more renewable energy, and where we need district heating and electricity and gas to play much better together, and where it could easily be that it is investments other than new lines that should be prioritised, for example. large heat pumps, to invest in geothermal energy, to expand new renewable energy sources, to get large hydrogen plants up and running. So, these are quite different investments that would be better for the overall energy system than building a Polish gas pipeline for fossil energy. I note that the Minister will address the local genes and try to influence Energinet to take account of local residents. But we are in a situation where a gas pipeline of the caliber going across Jutland, across Funen and across southern Zealand, of course, will have some genes. I would like to know whether this project is something that the Minister is going to see again or whether it is going to, what is to be said, continue the proceedings with other authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424132958	Finally, I would like to say that this is clearly a matter on which I am currently in dialogue with Energy Networks. That is also why I have sent a very clear and clear signal to Energinet to listen as much as possible, to go out into the field, I had almost said, and meet with pilots. And that is why I am very pleased that Energinet has succeeded in meeting 500 pilots and having held seven citizens' meetings. It is essential that there is strong local dialogue. In relation to the question that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen also mentioned whether the need for this wire is quite different from Denmark. I wish, if the opportunity were there, to invite sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen on a trip to Poland I also know that he has been there for 80%. Poland's energy consumption is currently based on coal. I think we have a common interest in phasing out this far, I think, after all, we agree. If we are to succeed, we need to find an alternative that is stable. And it has to be said that there is an alternative to natural gas, and it is also the case that natural gas has a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133104	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133105	Well, I've been to Poland without studying gas systems, but I still think what's too bad about this bet is that it's so long a bet. After all, it is not just a question of helping Poland in the short run during a conversion phase; we are about to make an investment in new gas pipelines, which will be used up to 2063. I do not think it is right that such infrastructure projects should be given priority in Denmark and that Danish citizens should be bothered by a Polish pipeline. However, I understand that the Minister is going to see this project again, and I would like to hear how the Minister will deal with all the complaints that have been made in connection with the public hearings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133153	There are rules on how to deal with such complaints. They will be handled according to the rules that are. I also think it is important to stress that, unlike other infrastructure projects, which I know have the great interest of the questioner, this is a gas pipeline. Once buried in the ground, the genes are absolutely minimal, unlike other elements and other things, where we also have challenges in dealing with the green transition. And it is clear that the rules are being followed here. However, I have sent out a signal that Energinet must listen as much as possible and be as much within the framework and the possibilities that are and be accommodating to the wishes that are, to the location of the line, the route, etc. And this is a dialogue that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133240	Then it's the co-questioner, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133245	Well, as the Minister has said, this affects a lot of people. So the municipality of Næstved is being cut across; there are also people who will experience that it needs to be expropriated. I would say that some of what we hear from many of the farmers who will be affected is that even though the pipeline has been dug down, they are also concerned that this can actually affect how the harvest will be in the future, when you like to have such a wire lying in the ground. So there are many things at stake, and it is really important to look at how it affects people. And precisely when the perspective is that it is not one, I think, sensible, long-term, sustainable energy source that we are dealing with, it also seems disproportionate that so many people should be affected by it. It is very clear that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with this, also locally. I would like to ask the Minister something. Now I know the hearing answers have just come in. When will there be a clarification of what these consultation answers mean for the whole process? When will there be a clarification of how much area to expropriate, etc., so that people can get the clear message that I think many people are going and are very excited about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133401	Thank you to Eva Flyvholm for the question. It is the case that in relation to the possible genes that may be • e.g. If, in some places, it should be found that the lead has the result, there are rules on how the farmer concerned is compensated in this respect. In relation to the future timetable, in order not to stand here and say anything wrong, I would ask that a written answer be sent to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133431	Thank you. We will look forward to getting the timetable. It's important to have clarity. However, I just think that it is out of proportion to me that so many people are subjected to nuisances because of the pipeline, when it is precisely not going to be a sustainable energy source in the long term. I fully acknowledge what the Minister says about this being an improvement on coal, but we are talking about an investment that will last more than 30 years in the future, and this will simply keep Poland in a fossil energy consumption that will not help us in terms of the green transition that we are going to have and which is a great nuisance for a very large number of citizens in the municipalities affected. I think we should have done that differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133513	Thank you for the question. As I said before, this is for me to see a stepping stone for Poland in relation to the green transition. In fact, I have to say that I am somewhat surprised that the Enhedslisten is working here to maintain Poland in coal consumption. That is the case. No, that's not what we work for). With the setting that Enhedslisten has here, Enhedslisten maintains the iron grip that is on coal, while leaving behind millions of Poles to stand without gas supply in 2021, 2022. I have to say that the solidarity that I otherwise perceive as usually represented by the Enhedslisten certainly does not exist here. There is no solidarity, there is no concern for the green transition. This is going to lead massively to Poland's CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133559	The questioner then has the last final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133604	I think that the answers to these two questions show that we have a problem in Denmark with the major infrastructure investments, and I really do not think it is right that the decision-making powers lie exclusively with the Minister when it comes to both Viking Link and Baltic Pipe. I think we should arrive at a better decision-making process involving the Folketing. There are many very small things in which the Folketing is involved, and I really think that we should have a legislative work on these major investments. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he does not see that we have a little problem, and it is not certain that these two major projects are the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133644	I hope that the questioner is not of the opinion that we have done something wrong. We have followed the legislation that exists. If Enhedslisten has a wish to change it, then Enhedslisten must suggest it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133657	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm and thank you to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs for today's efforts. We should then have gone to Question 4 and Question 5, but they have been withdrawn from the agenda by the questioner and that concludes Question Time. No, I'm sorry, I missed sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's question No. 6, which is for the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133731	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who is from the Social Democratic Party, will read the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133733	Thank you. Is it the Minister's view that there is a need to take immediate action to save the endangered population of snowballs in South-West Jutland?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133744	Thank you for the question, which I am glad the President let the questioner put. I am particularly pleased to be able to reply, because I know that this is an issue of interest to Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen quite and quite sincerely, and I have good news with me today. In 2018 and 2019 the Danish EPA carried out a stock estimation of the snow apple in Ribe Å and Vidå. In Ribe Å there has been an increase in the stock of 140 per cent. in relation to 2013, but the stock remains very small and quite vulnerable. In Vidå there has been a growth of 17 per cent. in relation to 2014, and the stock is assessed as vulnerable but not as acutely threatened. Efforts have been made over the past many years for some 150 million. kr. for the snake, and even though we can now see a small effect, we are still away with a species that is vulnerable. The Danish EPA considers, however, that a gene bank should be the last solution, because the catching up of parent fish to a gene bank in itself is a burden on a small stock, and because the artificial breeding environment in the gene bank means that there are very few fish that survive when they are exposed. Like the rapporteur, I am very concerned that we are looking after our endangered species, but we must also ensure that we do so properly, in a balanced and effective way, and with the new figure for the apple, I do not think that there is any reason for panic, by the way, there is never a need for constant attention, and I am glad that we share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424133921	Thank you so much. This shows how important it was that we actually had the opportunity to have this dialogue and have the question put to us, because it was really news that the Minister has in the Chamber today, which I really appreciate on behalf of the apple and on behalf of biodiversity. Because we are dealing with a species that has been more endangered than the snow tiger, and a species that is only in Denmark, where it reproduces itself, so of course we have a very obvious and unique responsibility. In relation to the issue of the gene bank, several experts have been promoting it and suggesting it as a possible rescue initiative, and it is also an initiative which I have expressed some interest in getting started, also because it is relatively cheap to have a gene bank. But it is clear that in this question we have to lean on experts, and that is why I might also like to have the Minister's assessment of the possibility of sending over to writing afterwards what the experts' position on this question is. Because when you read the daily press, you can at least see that there is this proposal about a gene bank; I remember it as if it was Center for Wild salmon that had it and who said it was relatively cheap, I think it was DKK 200,000. In fact, they could manage it, and they thought, on the basis of their expertise, that it was a good idea. So what is the Minister's assessment? Is there a need for us to have a second opinion in relation to the Minister's own system? And is there anything else we should do in view of the fact that, despite the fine percentage increase, there is still a species which is, if not acutely endangered, at least still threatened?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134113	Thank you. I am always pleased to be able to create joy in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that there is indeed cause for not enthusiasm, so at least a little more confidence that the apple is not as threatened as it has been. I would very much like to ask the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to give a few more words on what kind of assessment is being made. Because I asked the same question to my system as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen asks here: Why can't you just do it? This is obviously a matter, and here I am getting into something I am not an expert on, that when you have a selection in a closed environment that is man-controlled, then that selection is not necessarily appropriate when it gets back into the wild, and that is why you risk putting the wrong ones out, or that it is the wrong ones who adapt to the wrong environment. But I would very much like to ask the Danish Environmental Protection Agency to elaborate on this, so that it is not the blind who are discussing colors down here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134216	Thank you. I'll look forward to it. It could be exciting to immerse ourselves a little in what we have of opportunities to support this species, which, after all, is still quite pressured. As far as I am aware, it must be the case that the number estimation presented by the Minister today is a consequence of the fact that an electric fishing operation was carried out in December, when a census was made. Is further stock surveillance planned for the future? Will one count again so that we are sure that we stay on track in the direction of the species moving in a positive direction in numbers?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134259	Yes, there is. This is something we have to keep an eye on, because although we have seen a relatively large increase in Ribe Å, it is a quite vulnerable stock. This is something that will be followed up every two years, so not a census will be made, but an estimate of how large the stock here is. It is clear that when you continuously make this estimate, you also make the assessment of what measures we need to take. Will it, for example? at some point be relevant with a rebank?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134338	By way of exception, I do not think I have so many further questions. I think it was really, really amazing and positive news that came from the Minister today. It is a well-known fact that we have spent 150 to 160 million. kr. on the snake for which we have a huge responsibility. Different governments need huge amounts of money, huge resources and huge amounts of power, and also local resources have been used, and we have just not been able to see the result of that effort for many years. It is therefore a good thing that we are now seeing a result, and that is actually a little surprising. It was something frustrating, I think, for everyone involved to experience that we threw money into it and spent a lot of time on it out in the Varde Å system, and that there was not really any result. But I really hope that these are robust results and that the progress of the species will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134429	I fully share the joy that it seems to be going up with the stock, and also so waits for if not withheld breathing, then some kind of anxiety, that is, in relation to: how does this stock progress so far and is it heading in the right direction? Because the truth is, we don't know much about the science of the apple. We do not know much about how the snap breeds and its migration to the Wadden Sea, etc. But it seems to be heading in the right direction, and we are pleased about that. It's a good day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134500	Thank you very much both to a satisfied minister and to a satisfied questioner, namely the Minister for the Environment and Food and Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134514	I would also ask those Members of the Folketing who may be sitting at their screens to be aware that we are now embarking on paragraph 2. We need the author of the motion for a resolution under paragraph 2 and we cannot get started until the author is here and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, I would say if she is on the Internet at the moment. That is the motion for a resolution. B 137, draft parliamentary resolution on cheaper fruit and vegetables to be considered. We have considered whether we could move on to the next point again, but we cannot do so, because then we need a minister. So we have to take a little break now and breathe and see if we get Mrs Pernille Schnoor to start the debate itself, as we cannot start the debate until the proposer is present. Then I think we are ready to start with paragraph 2. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Tax. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424134736	Thank you. It is good to see that the proposer will join the Chamber too, but that is it! Otherwise, we will not come anywhere with the discussion of this motion for a resolution, which is the re-submission of an old resolution from the alternative of the last session, and this is about reducing VAT on fruit and vegetables. In concrete terms, the alternative is to halve VAT on fruit and vegetables, i.e. from 25 to 12.5%. This is financed by increasing tobacco taxes. This is not a new proposal from the Alternative. Two years ago we debated a similar motion for a resolution on the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables. The arguments for not introducing a reduced VAT rate on fruit and vegetables I would like to reveal here from the platform of the debate if there are some who sit and wait in excitement ■ are the same as then. But I would like to repeat them if anyone had forgotten them: the Danish VAT system is characterised by the fact that all goods and services are initially charged 25%. VAT. Over time, changing governments have held on to this, and there are actually some good reasons for it. I also believe that these reasons remain valid, two years after we last discussed the proposal. It goes without saying that a single-rate VAT system is easier to administer than a VAT system with many different rates, and it is easier to administer one VAT rate for both companies and authorities. The administrative burden of several VAT rates is due, inter alia, to: I would like to return to the problem of demarcation, since there is uncertainty as to whether the product in question is now also subject to the appropriate VAT rate. These administrative demarcation problems will entail significant costs for industry and the authorities. Just to take a thoughtful example, and it could of course be nice if the proposers here could answer my questions, but now I'm just problematizing because it would be what the officials would have to do in the bill that would translate this resolution if there had to be a majority in favour of it, and it illustrates why it is very, very difficult to do what the alternative here proposes I will mention fresh tomatoes. They must be included in the proposal. We can agree on that. But what about canned tomatoes? Do they have to be in it, too? Should there also be half VAT on it? What about dried tomatoes? Yeah, we'll take them with us. What about dried tomatoes in oil? Or is it another VAT rate? What about fresh tomatoes? What about tomato concentrate? Is it really healthy and good for the environment? What about mackerel in tomato? Yes, fish are healthier than meat, but how are we to calculate what is to be paid in tax? Then we'll go down and measure how much tomato there is in the mackerel. How about tomato pie, tomato soup, pizza with tomato, salsa? There is also tomato in salsa. Tomato ketchup is not very healthy, because there are many other things in it, but tomatoes are still gone an important ingredient. How about "and now I take it out in the extreme" a bloody mary? It is a cocktail, I shall tell the President, and I am sorry that I do not know a Danish expression of it. It is not to make fun of the proposal, because I recognise the alternative's desire to promote fruit and vegetables, but it is to illustrate that it may sound beautiful, and it may also be easy to sell out there close to an election campaign • halving the VAT rate on fruit and vegetables • but you run into having to explain to citizens and businesses why there is half VAT on something and nothing else. It is difficult to find some factual reasons why there should be full VAT on tomato ketchup, but half VAT on fresh vegetables. In any case, one should choose to say that it is only fresh vegetables. And even if you do, you run into fundamental problems that you have to deal with if you support this resolution. And I don't have the answers, and I've been asking at the Treasury. They can point to the problems, but they cannot provide the answers either. And in a number of other areas we have the same demarcation problems. Among other things: With the sugar and chocolate tax, we are running into these delimiting problems, because why should there be a chocolate tax on one kind of biscuit and not another kind? The increased costs here will mean that a reduction in VAT will not be fully passed on to consumers, as companies will of course cover their additional administrative costs. A reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables is also not a sensible instrument for promoting the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Why isn't it? This is because reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables will largely benefit already existing consumers of fruit and vegetables. In other words, a reduction will largely relate only to consumers' current consumption and, therefore, to a limited extent contribute to improving public health. And I also believe, without thinking that we have made great analyses of it, that those who have a very high consumption of fruit and vegetables are also people who have relatively high incomes. At least they are the ones who buy the expensive fruit and vegetable products, namely the organic ones. So you could also say that you could risk that there was some social battle in this reduction. In addition, a reduction in the VAT rate will act as a price subsidy which is independent of the health of the product and the quantity in which the product is purchased, since the price subsidy depends only on the price of the product. The same arguments apply if an improvement in the environment and climate is to be achieved. A price subsidy in the form of reduced VAT is not linked to the impact of the product on the environment and the climate, which is why it must be considered an expensive way of trying to improve the environment and the climate. If we try to define it and say that okay, it has to be fresh fruit, then one of the products for which this reduction will affect the avocado. I'm pretty sure the climate impression from the avocado means you just have to sink a few times. A huge amount of water is needed to produce an avocado. Typically, they are also produced in countries far away from Denmark, which means they have to be transported up here. I do not think it would be good for CO2 so one can of course exempt the avocado specifically, but then one runs into some other problems. My conclusion as tax minister, and that is also why the government cannot support the resolution, is that although the intentions are good and I would like people to eat more fruit and vegetables, I love fruit and vegetables myself, what has been proposed is a very, very difficult administrative way and a socio-economicly expensive way of achieving that improvement in the climate and the environment. There are far more effective ways of achieving results for the environment and for public health and for the climate, among other things. because the proposal provides for less revenue of 2 billion. kr. a year. That is, to put it bluntly, because it depends on where it is defined, but 2 billion. kr. is certainly not unrealistic. The 2 billion. kr., which we now spend on health and on the elderly and on childcare and care, must be found in other ways. There is an alternative, and I would like to acknowledge that, a source of funding, namely an increase in tobacco taxes. The government has no plans to increase tobacco taxes, but the debate is out there, and there are also strong forces in my own party, including my party chairman, who has said that in this way they think it would be reasonable to look at the issue of tobacco taxes on the other side of a parliamentary election. But if you want to raise the tobacco tax to 80 kroner, as the alternative here proposes, you have to think carefully, because it does not fund anything at all. In fact, it costs over 2 billion. kr. further a year. That is to say, first there is the 2 billion. kr., which is missing to finance a lower VAT rate on fruit and vegetables, and then there is a further over 2 billion. kr., if you raise the tax, then the price will be 80 kr. I understand why the alternative points to that source of funding, because others have suggested this, but my task as tax minister with the strict liability for taxes is to say that when we more than double a tax we increase the cigarette tax, as is proposed here, by 130 per cent. Germany leads to massive cross-border trade, and this will result in less money coming into the box in Denmark and more cigarettes being bought abroad. These are, of course, calculations that may be challenged, but it's hard to find a single serious economist in this kingdom who would say that raising the cigarette tax to 80 kroner. Gives more money in the box, 'cause it doesn't. And if that economist exists, I would very much like to invite him or her to a meeting in my office. In other words, if the proposal is to be implemented, the VAT resources which the State will lose because of the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables must be collected in another way. And what has been proposed here with tobacco taxes does not provide money, it costs money. So if the proposal is adopted, we have been isolated in this way according to calculations in the Ministry of Taxation approx. 4 billion kr. less to the welfare of this country. That is why it is so much an unfunded proposal. So if I am to sum up, I have to say that we recognise the good intentions of the Alternative. In fact, we share them with the government. However, the proposal for differentiated VAT does not make much sense and the proposal to finance it with higher tobacco taxes strikes a huge gap in the box that will hit the welfare of our country, so I would strongly warn against that. It is fair to discuss an increase in tobacco taxes, but the 80 kroner proposed here will knock a hole in the box and cause some problems with the financing of our welfare society. So with the weighty and strong arguments, where rhetoric has also turned up slightly, the government is rejecting the motion for a resolution. But I am making myself available for the debate that must be held in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424135732	Thank you. The first to speak briefly is Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424135739	Thank you. I do not quite know how to perceive the Minister's speech. At the outset, I thought that the Minister was very cheerful on the basis of the proposal, which I think is a very serious proposal, which is primarily about health promotion, but which is also about the fact that the climate pressure from the average Danish diet is greater than the total pressure from the person's consumption of electricity, heat, petrol and diesel. So there are also climate aspects to doing this. So I don't really think it's so cheerful. It's true that I've been standing here before. It is because it is part of our policy that what is healthy should be cheap and that what is unhealthy should be expensive. These are the two things we have combined in this proposal. Is the Minister only critical of the financing of it, or does the Minister think it would be sensible to do so? Or are we talking about technicalities when we have to have two VAT rates, just as we do in Sweden, where we have a different VAT on foodstuffs, which is quite reasonable, I think at first sight? So what is it? Is that the two things, that is, that it will cost something, so perhaps you have to take some of the room, and then you have to go into something technical in relation to some peeled tomatoes? I mean, you should probably be able to figure out how to make legislation in relation to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424135919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424135920	Well, the last one kind of confirms my point. You are welcome to do so, and I am pleased with the alternative's way of going differently to politics. I think that has been a positive contribution, and I really do think so. I think that many parties could learn from this. But the purpose of being in politics is not just to mean something; it is also to implement it. And when a motion for a resolution is retabled, I expect there to be an improvement on the criticisms that have been raised and that we have looked at the reason why it has been rejected. And if it was super easy to make this distinction, I do not understand why Mrs Pernille Schnoor and the alternative did not do so in the comments to the resolution. When I am a little cheerful about the proposal, it is, to be perfectly honest, because I think it is a very, very ill-thought-out and unworked motion for a resolution. This is not because we politicians at Christiansborg do not have the resources at their disposal or are unable to draw on industries or organisations of interest. This would be a much better and more serious debate if Mrs Pernille Schnoor and the Alternative had sat down and worked on the resolution instead of just working on what they would like to promote. Because politics is not just about meaning something; it is also about implementing it. This proposal cannot be implemented because it is unthinkable and it is unfunded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140034	Well, I'm just polite about it. I remember last time we had it, I was also shot in the shoes, we weren't doing our work properly and so on. So, with all due respect, this is the third time that I have been standing here proposing that cigarettes should be more expensive. I think something has happened since the first time. So, with all due respect, you can push some political agendas by standing here in the Chamber and suggesting some things. This is kind of part of our policy. It may not be part of the Minister's policy, but it is part of our policy. What we have done this time is that we have proposed funding. That is what we were mainly shot in the shoes at the end, namely that no funding was proposed. We have proposed this this time. Then you always start discussing some technicalities. I do not agree that it should be crucial to whether this can be done here. After all, it is a question of whether we agree or disagree with it that it is so difficult to define what is fruit and vegetables and what is not fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140141	Again I would say that if it were easy, I would urge Mrs Pernille Schnoor to do so, in other words handing in a list. It is actually meant as a friendly advice, because it is very easy for me as a tax minister to reject a proposal that I really think is very sensible, because it is not very well worked out, despite the fact that it is a re-submission and despite the fact that one can get help from the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Committee, ask questions to me as a tax minister and others. I just think it is a pity, because it makes it easy to reject the policy of the alternative. I think that is a pity for the alternative and, as such, for the enlightened debate on it. If I were to give some advice for the next time you have to table such a motion for a resolution, it would be that you could look to other countries where they have made a differentiated VAT on food and lean on that boundary. Then it would be more difficult to refuse. But I do not see it as my task here as Minister to help the alternative to develop their policy. I hope you can find out for yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140228	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140242	Thank you for that, President. The rapporteur, who tabled the motion for a resolution here, will probably find that the circle of rapporteurs and ministers here is a mix between taxpayers and health professionals, and I can also hear that the last time was a more purely tax debate, and today more health has been put down on it, and we in the Social Democratic Party are very pleased about that. However, this does not alter the Socialist position on the whole discussion of whether we should have a differentiated VAT system. We in the Social Democratic Party do not think we should. We think that there are very good arguments for maintaining a simple and flexible VAT system that we have, but it is an absolutely essential part of the social democratic health policy that we should have a sharp, sharp eye on the fact that too many Danes get sick through life, and we can do things politically to reduce the amount of disease, if I may put it that way, in Denmark. That is why we must focus hard on prevention and health promotion, and that is why the motion for a resolution has been tabled here. Unfortunately, we know with great clarity and certainty that lifestyles affect people's lives in a good direction or in a more diseased direction. We know that the combination of food and diets and that is fruit and vegetables is an important and a really healthy part of the diet is one of the really important factors in terms of whether people develop diseases, and the concept we have to describe these diseases is very much lifestyle diseases. The alternative also describes in its submission and description of the resolution here what it is like that the Prevention Commission came back in 2009 around the challenge of differentiated VAT. I've had that thick green book from the bookcase today just to reread it. What the Prevention Commission said ten years ago was precisely that there may well be some values in it, i.e. that VAT was differentiated in relation to fruit and vegetables, but, most importantly, it is to note that the Prevention Commission did not set it up as one of their relatively many recommendations that they would recommend differentiated VAT. We in the Social Democratic Party think that we should look around to find other methods, other structures to support the widespread promotion of fruit and vegetables and a healthy lifestyle in general. The Minister for Taxation mentioned such assumptions about who eats the most fruit and vegetables, and here I have to say that I support the Minister for Taxation. It is a desire on the part of the Social Democrats that fruit and vegetables should become more of a large part of the diet of the general population, so that it may not apply only to those who earn the most money. So I would like to open up a dialogue and a debate with the Alternative and the Folketing as a whole on what we might be able to support some structures. But back to the VAT system. It is a simple one, it is an understandable one, it is a flexible one, and, as the tax minister also said, it is also a cheap VAT system that we have. We have very few exceptions to the 25% VAT rate; let me mention stamps and newspapers. We do not want to change the VAT rate we have in this area. That is also what my colleague said a few years ago when it was for the first time in the debate. I have taken this opportunity today to highlight the health promotion and health policy aspects of food and diet in general, and we are very interested in having a broader political debate on this in the Folketing, but not with the basis of the motion for a resolution here on the differentiation of VAT rates. So the Social Democrats are not voting for the resolution here, and I should also like to point out to the Folketing that I am authorised to report the same from the Radical Left and from the SF, which also does not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140721	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140723	Thank you. First of all, I would like to acknowledge that the health rapporteur chooses to highlight the health aspects of our proposal, that the health aspects are in fact something we argue and that it is important that it is not only the Minister and people with high incomes who eat fruit and vegetables, but that we can also have a broader basis so that there is no such social battle. I would also like to acknowledge that this is, of course, about prevention. The fact that you disagree with that tool is fair enough, but I can hear that we agree on it far along the way. What can be said specifically about the Prevention Commission is, of course, that they do not take a position on the climate effect of it. So we have two reasons for this proposal; we have a health-enhancing justification and then we have a justification that has more climate considerations. And they do not have that reason, and that is why we believe that there is another reason for doing so here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140838	Thank you for that, and thank you for recognising our basic consensus on the need for prevention and health promotion and ensuring that more Danes have a long and good life without disease or at least with less disease. Yes, the Prevention Commission was set up in the world to try to look at health promotion and prevention, and I and the Social Democrats have also noted the alternative's argument that it should also be less climate-laden. After all, the rapporteur is well aware of the position of the Socialist Group, and here it is an exciting combination of wanting us to be a green leader nation and to take a great deal of responsibility for the world around us, so that we do not just want to live well and consume well today burden climate, environment and nature. Here we must also appeal to the skilled Danish producers of fruit and vegetables, so that they support it in the same way as we have seen the agricultural sector support organic products, which have proved to be a fantastic marketable element in the world. We can also want the producers to do the same in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424140949	I just think that my last comment should be "and then I also hope that the tax minister will listen that the lowest climate impressions come from vegetable foods according to CONCITO, which is the green think tank. So that is also what makes us put it here, so that we can focus on the fact that, popularly speaking, you can beat two birds with one stone. The fact that you can then disagree with the tool in relation to VAT is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141021	I do not think it called for any particular comment on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141025	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen and welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141034	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the alternative for having tabled the proposal, because then we will have the opportunity to talk a little more about healthy diets, which we may sometimes forget to talk about; we just do not agree with the basis of the proposal. In the Danish People's Party we would like to see that we also look at where it is that you get your products from, how they are grown, and that you might eat a little more after the fruits and vegetables of the season. That is at least one of the impressions of the climate when we pick up our fruit and vegetables in countries far away and when we grow some things in heated greenhouses all year round. Tobacco prices have also been drawn into the proposal itself, and we think it is a pity that things are mixed up, because it is something about judging other people as to how they should live their lives. Now we have discussed tobacco prices here every other day in the last few months, and in the Danish People's Party we would like the tobacco price to be raised by 6-8 kr., just as if there had been a regular tariff and price projection. There has just been no mood for that, so it is not something we have been able to move forward with. When we look at the increase proposed by the Alternative, we know and I think it was the tax minister who replied that it would cost 2.3 billion. kr. in relation to increased cross-border trade, and at the same time we would also find that there would be more copycigarettes with very many bad things in them; cigarettes that are more dangerous than the cigarettes that are being bought today. So all in all, it is a motion for a resolution that requires some money, and according to what I can count on, it is 4 billion. kr., partly to reduce VAT, partly to increase the price, in derived costs, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. However, we would have liked to have seen a little more talk about the healthy diet, about getting producers to take more part in ensuring that there are alternatives to those people who want to live healthier, without compromising either the quality or with what you like to eat, because we cannot force people to eat something that we know is healthy. I know it from the care centers, where dishes are made with something green, potatoes, sauce and meat rather not too much sauce, because it fattens and it should also be diet; especially the men, I would say, leave the salad and green on the plate, they don't eat it, and then it's not healthy if you don't eat it. That is why we must also ensure that it is delicious to eat and that you want to eat it. So let us have a debate on healthy diet instead. I'd rather have seen that. Thank you for the proposal, but we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141351	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141353	Well, I think it's a good thing if we can have the opportunity to discuss healthy diet and prevention. I was also hoping that that was one of the things we could talk about today. This kind of proposal is always difficult because it is actually a health proposal I am putting forward, but because it is about VAT, it becomes the tax minister's resort. I just want to say that the 2014 poll I have come across, which I also think I mentioned last time, shows that 87 per cent. by the Danes would like to have the VAT on fresh fruit and vegetables lowered • 87 per cent. I would say that I think it is a little below the belt when the Minister says that we are only making this proposal because there will soon be parliamentary elections. We ourselves have not decided on this date. It is a very long time since I made this proposal, so it has nothing to do with it. This is both in our financial laws and is part of our policy, so it's a matter of priority for us. But I just wanted to tell the rapporteur that 87 per cent. of the Danes actually want VAT on fresh fruit and vegetables to be reduced and that 81 per cent. would like to have VAT on goods with the Food Ministry's Key Hole Label for Healthy Food put down. So it is actually a very large group that wants it to be cheaper to eat healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141523	We've been working a lot on the subject here a few years ago... it may be that it was in 2014 that some studies were carried out. In fact, some experiments were made in the shops, where the prices of some apples were reduced to almost nothing and placed some creamballs, which actually cost more, beside them, and what did people choose? They picked the creamballs. Some studies were also made that showed that when it came down to it, people didn't buy more apples, even if they only had to pay 2 kroner. instead of 2.5 kroner. One of the things that has proved to be important is where you place the goods in the store. And we can also see that the fact that you can now buy mixed salads for one day etc. also encourages people to buy something more green. So it's 87 per cent. If we want VAT to be reduced, it is because they expect it to benefit their own purse, but we just want them to know that it is a signal policy and that they have to pay that money elsewhere, and it will not be about cigarettes, because they also cost money. So the money must come from somewhere, and that is where I need to see the economy in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141634	In 2015, Coop chose to lower the prices of all their organic fruit and vegetables. I think they set them at 20%. the sales increased by 40%. I don't know if there were creamballs next to that, but the customers chose to buy a lot more fruit and vegetables. Of course, there may be an effect in there being something campaigning about it, if it is for a period of time, but there is something that suggests that using these tools you would be able to motivate people to buy more fruit and vegetables. And then all the dynamic effects that will be about to quit smoking and by eating healthier diets aren't expected to happen here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141730	Now Mrs Pernille Schnoor does not know what that fruit and vegetables are for. We also talk a lot about food waste now. I know that when I shop fruit and vegetables, there are a lot of times when I have to throw something out, so the question is when it is bought 40%. more, if it is people who already buy fruit and vegetables and then buy a little more because it has become cheaper, then they just have even more to throw out. So measurements and statistics can be made of everything, but I think it is more important to ask whether it is too expensive if a bag of carrots today costs less than 10 kroner. Is it too expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141803	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424141812	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The alternative resolution is about reducing the VAT rate on fruit and vegetables from the general VAT rate of 25%. 121⁄2%, which is the lowest possible rate in accordance with EU rules. As others have said before, this is not the first time that such a proposal has been dealt with here in the Parliamentary Chamber by the Alternative, and the arguments put forward by the Left in favour of rejecting the motion for a resolution are thus also a repetition of previous arguments. The proposal has well-meaning intentions. I fully acknowledge that, but the question is whether intentions and reality are then reconciled, and unfortunately they do not do so in this case. The Danish VAT system is characterised by a single VAT rate of 25%, which is therefore a very, very easily manageable VAT system, and that is why we are stubbornly sticking to it and do not choose to use differentiated VAT for different product types, categories and everything else. We have it, I think, it was the Social Democrat rapporteur who mentioned it on stamps and newspapers and passenger transport. There may be a few extra cases, but it is not very many places we do not have VAT on financial services there is then payroll tax instead. But basically, companies and citizens meet a very simple and simple VAT system in Denmark. And we actually think we should hold on to that basically. We are not going to give the example described by the tax minister into long and many definitions, grey areas, decisions and controls, then it goes, and what can be put in? No, let's hold on to what we have, because it works. I think a few things should also be borne in mind. I can't remember exactly who was doing the study... I think it was the Academy of Technical Sciences, but I remember wrongly at the request of a proposal to make a reduction, a differentiated VAT on fruit and vegetables. This would be one of the biggest redistributions between the parts of the country, which would go in completely the opposite direction to what our normal equalisation system is doing, because it would ensure a transfer from those parts of the country where incomes are not so high to where incomes are highest. Of course, there will also be a loss of weight, which means that all those who already eat fruit and vegetables will now be able to buy it at a cheaper price. Unfortunately, there is something that suggests that this is much more connected with lifestyle and information than with price, although as a good liberal, of course, I always recognise that the price is important for sales. However, it is perhaps also important to stress that today it is virtually without exception that it is cheaper to live healthy than it is to live unhealthy. It is cheaper to cut carrot poles and cucumbers for the kids for Disney Fun Friday night than it is to buy a bag of Monopoly Mix. My kids get Monopoly Mix Friday night, because I think they should, but it would actually be cheaper for me to cut some vegetables. And perhaps we should bear that in mind: that it may be not just the price that matters, but many other things. The funding of the proposal is, after all, a big hole in the box. As the Minister for Taxation said, we are in fact in the Left in discussion about where a cigarette tax should be more appropriate. We promised the electorate a tax freeze prior to the last elections, and we naturally respect that because we keep our promises. So we cannot, of course, raise cigarette taxes during the current parliamentary term, and then we will see what happens when we go a little further. But to set the tax up to 80 kr. per the package, as the tax minister explained, will cost revenue, and then there is not much to finance an expenditure-intensive proposal when the funding itself is costly. So the intentions are good enough, but unfortunately the proposal falls when it comes to reality. And then I think it's so seen with tax policy glasses that it's a really strong VAT system we have in Denmark. Even when there may be things that seem tempting, I think we stand best by sticking to our unitary VAT. It is easy, it is transparent, and we on the Left see no reason to change it, so we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142315	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142318	I just want to know whether the rapporteur recognises the health effects or consequences that will arise, for example. to introduce a price of 80 kr. for cigarettes and a very low price for healthy foods, including fruit and vegetables, that is to say that the use of such products has an effect on consumption. taxes and VAT, etc. to have a change of behavior.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142401	Of course, the tax on cigarettes has a behavior effect, and I fully recognise that. But you have to think carefully about what you do, because the Danes do not get less sick from smoking cigarettes bought abroad compared to smoking cigarettes bought in Denmark. It is, after all, always a balance in relation to where we can put the cigarette tax, at what level in relation to cross-border trade, in relation to illegal trade. And if I don't remember quite wrong, the socio-economic gain from the recent increase in the cigarette tax, which was made in 2011 or 2012, was a minus of 60 million. kr. Of course, a lot may have happened, but an increase to 80 kroner. I just want to say punch a hole in the box, and it risks not having the health effect that I am quite sure we share the desire for it to have. So if something is to happen to the tobacco tax, it will certainly not be an increase to 80 kroner, because it will be too expensive for the Treasury to finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142512	[Sound emission]... the rapporteur acknowledges that there will be significant savings in health care if we, for example: increases the price/tax on cigarettes. I think the last answer I received was that if we raised the price to about DKK 65, i.e. a doubling of the tax, we would save 6.9 billion. kr. Every year compared to all the people who get sick from smoking. And in the same way, there will also be savings if you change your diet so that it is healthier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142548	Well, there is no doubt that the fewer Danes who smoke, the fewer the costs we have for the treatment of smokers in our health care system it is clear. That is also why the government and we in the Left have an ambition that by 2030 we should have the first smoke-free generation • because smoking is extremely harmful and because it is enormously expensive in our healthcare system. So the ambition to reduce the number of smokers is one that we fully share.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142616	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. And welcome to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424142625	Thank you for that, President. We can see that such a debate is taking us a long way from mackerel in tomato to Matador Mix and compensatory reform. First of all, I would like to congratulate the alternative for having tabled this motion for a resolution. At any rate, it is a good intention to make it cheaper to make healthy choices and more expensive to make health-related choices. As some of the other rapporteurs have mentioned, I also find it rather difficult to see how the proposal is financed here, as a halving of the VAT on fruit and vegetables will result in a loss to the Treasury of about 2 billion. kr. The same applies to an increase in the tobacco price to over 80 kroner. per at least according to the memo from the Ministry of Taxation. So although both are proposals we can find sympathetic, it is difficult to finance a costly proposal with another costly proposal; at least the money must be found elsewhere. That is why we find it difficult to see immediately how the funding is linked. In my view, the proposal to halve VAT on fruit and vegetables is rather a pity, both because it may be difficult to manage it with differentiated VAT, but also because the proposal here does not distinguish between ecology and fruit and vegetables produced using pesticides. In the Enhedslisten we have a proposal to completely eliminate VAT on ecology. On the one hand, it is easier to manage, on the other hand, we know that this is something that will make more people choose ecology, and it will work both in terms of public health and also in terms of the environment and climate. We have found funding for this, and we could, in fact, start doing so tomorrow. It would be considerably easier to administer. However, the proposal here for a halving of VAT on fruit and vegetables, including on conventional crops, will mean a tax reduction for conventional crops too, that is, sprayed fruit and vegetables. In the Enhedslisten, it would rather be done away with VAT completely on ecology and financed it by an increase in the levy on pesticides. In relation to the second part of the proposal on tobacco prices, there is no doubt that the fight against tobacco is one of the most important tasks we have in terms of public health. Tobacco is the cause no. One for deaths that we could prevent. 13,600 Danes die every year as a result of tobacco. Tobacco is the only legal product that is the cause of death for every other person who uses it, as well as when using it according to the regulations. It is the cause of many sick days every year; it is the cause of many different cancers, heart disease, col, that is, what we call smoking lungs. Tobacco is highly addictive; so addictive that about 70%. of those who use it actually want to be able to stop, but they can't. That is why, of course, it is also depressing that we have received new figures showing that the number of young smokers has increased ■ it is simply going the wrong way. We know that smoking is one of the main causes of inequality in health. That is why we also fully agree that the price of cigarettes should be increased because we know it works. We propose a doubling of the tax, so we get a price of about 60 kr. for a pack of cigarettes. At the same time, we know that a tax increase in the short term will have a social impact, so the revenue from such a tax increase must therefore be paid, and indeed there will be if we are talking about a cigarette price of DKK 60. the package is combined with a tax reform to facilitate the tax burden on the lowest income. Such a doubling of the tax, along with neutral cigarette packets and packages hidden under the counter, will certainly help in reducing the number of smokers, especially young smokers, and reduce the inequality in health. However, with the comments I have made here, despite the positive elements of the proposal, we cannot support what it is here, both because it is politically too vague and because the funding is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143020	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143024	The motion for a resolution often falls, I have seen, because of the fact that we do not agree with the funding, or that the proposers cannot assign crowns to crowns, how it is to be financed, and that is fair enough. After all, we have included this in our draft budget every time, and we have also found funding for it every time. Then the rapporteur says that the Enhedslisten would like it to be all about ecology. Under EU rules, we must not just focus on the organisation of the register, and that is why we have put the proposal forward in this way. You cannot only promote the ecology of fruit and vegetables, you have to bring the whole group. The EU rules can then be worked on to change, but in the first place it is not possible for us to make that proposal. In relation to the social battle side, I would say that when we propose that cigarette prices should rise, including allowing taxes to rise, we say at the same time that we must also bring healthy food down in price. For what you then give extra, because there is a social battle side, you can then save on the purchase of fruit and vegetables. But isn't it right that we shouldn't just focus on ecology?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143149	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143150	Yes, that is right in relation to EU rules. And it can be said that, in relation to this, it should not be a problem for us to say that we must challenge the rules that exist in the European Union, because if we in the Danish Parliament decide to remove VAT on organic food, it should not be something that the European Union interfered with. It should of course be a decision that was up to the Danish Parliament to take, and that is why we thought it was obvious that it would then be possible to challenge EU law in that area. Then I fully acknowledge the intention of the alternative's proposal, that is to say that it is about making it more expensive in relation to the harmful things and cheaper in relation to healthy choices, and I think that is a positive thing. It is true that this proposal has been tabled in the past and has also been financed by the Finance Act, but that is just not the case here. There are two proposals which both, at least as a starting point, are costly, and therefore the funding is not linked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143247	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143249	But does the rapporteur agree that there can be dynamic effects that we do not know about? In other words, some calculations have now been made and, as far as I can see, it is true that when you reach over a certain tax increase, it starts to pay costs according to the calculations made. But there you also have reservations that you cannot take all the effects into account in those calculations. So does the rapporteur not agree that there can be economic effects of this which are not included in the calculations that we have at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143331	Yeah, I'm sure there is. And I do not think that this is a question of whether we can afford to raise cigarette prices. Of course, we have to do so, but then we just have to find the funding for it. And I have no doubt that there will also be some derived effects of it, i.e. some health effects which make it perhaps not as expensive as it has been done here. And, as I said, it is not a question of the economy that we need to do this, but when we make a proposal on it, we also need to address the issues that lie. And there is, of course, a note from the Ministry of Taxation which says that raising the price to up to 60-65 DKK would at least be costly as a starting point. And that's why we're suggesting raising the price to 60 kr. and then see what the effect of it is, and then we can look at whether it is necessary to raise the price further.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143416	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143424	Thank you. On behalf of our rapporteur, I can tell you that the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of differentiated VAT and therefore cannot support the resolution. We do not do this because VAT is one of the least complex and confusing taxes or taxes that we have in an otherwise very confusing tax system. There is no need to muffle the waters even more by introducing different VAT rates on different foods, and that is not really what the tax administration needs most in these times. In addition, I also doubt that it will have the very big effect if we put the price of a bag of carrots down from 12 kroner. e.g. 10,50 kr. The groups that fill themselves with Monopoly Mix and chips are probably not the ones that are most susceptible to a reduction in carrot prices. Maybe they won't make it to that part of the store. So, for these reasons, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143531	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it is the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424143542	Thank you. As a rule, I usually start my rapporteur's speeches on motions for resolutions, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund started his speech today by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for the work behind it. But I'm not going to do that today. On the other hand, I am going to do the opposite and it is rare that I do it from this platform. I am going to raise a criticism, and I am doing so because there has been a debate on the same subject in the House in the past, and it was pointed out that there was a lack of funding for the proposal. Now we're dealing with it again here in the Assembly Hall, and then it seems as if the logical conclusion is that negative 2 and negative 2 is 0 and not negative 4, but that's not the case. When you have an initiative that costs 2 billion. kr., then you cannot finance it with another initiative, which also costs 2 billion. kr. You can't do that. This was previously referred to by the rapporteur as a technicality in the debate here. But it's not a technicality, and I think it's a little hard to say that it's a little disrespect for our people's rulership not to make more elaborate proposals. I congratulate the resolutions in this Chamber when they have been worked through, when the time has been spent when committee questions have been asked to be wiser. I would like to know what the committee's question is, where the answer has been, that the proceeds of raising cigarette taxes, so the price will be 80 DKK. Is that you get 2 billion. kr. in the Treasury. That question has not been asked, because that answer has never been given. If you had asked that question, you would have been told that it would cost 2 billion. kr. It is quite fair to want to halve VAT on fruit and vegetables, and I can have a lot of sympathy for it, and I can also in part extend as far as to say that I actually think it is an excellent idea if it was not because it was so technically difficult and it would provide an even more complicated system. How do you rank nuts and everything else? What is healthy, and what is unhealthy? The last time I bought a lot of fruit and vegetables was on Easter Days. There I bought 20 pieces of fruit, and then I bought a liter of cream and 400 grams of chocolate, and then I made monkey food or fruit salad, as it is also called. It wasn't super healthy, but it was really good, I had to say hello. In the Conservative People's Party, we are not afraid to say that we want to help raise cigarette prices, we would like to do so. We have specifically proposed raising cigarette prices to DKK 60. for a package, and we do, because 40 children and young people every day start smoking. It is we who are in this room who are responsible for ensuring some framework conditions that help to reverse this trend. In the end, it is the individual who puts the cigarette in his mouth who bears the ultimate responsibility, but we politicians in here can set up the system in a way that is smarter than the system we have today. So we are ready for that in the Conservative People's Party. I would like both the Left and the Social Democrats to state clearly where the parties are on this issue. It is absolutely impossible to get an answer from the two parties: what should a pack of cigarettes cost? I do not agree with the Danish People's Party in the proposal they have made, but I have great respect for the fact that there has been an announcement that a proposal has been made. Then you can disagree or agree, but I think it is fundamentally wrong not to stand by what you mean. So in the Conservative People's Party we would like to help raise cigarette prices to 60 DKK, and we would like to do so in order to stop the increase in the number of children and young people starting to smoke. But it is a debate on its own. This is, in fact, a debate about VAT on fruit and vegetables, a proposal which is proposed to be financed with another initiative, which also costs 2 billion. kr. So I have to, and I do so with great respect, but also with a little bit of annoyance that what we are discussing in this Chamber today is not more thoroughly worked out, because it would give a better debate simply and quite rightly to make a call that, if we are to have it here on a third occasion in this Chamber, there are not only proposals for funding, but then there are proposals for funding that do not give more minus than what the proposal originally cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144002	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it is the proposer, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144009	Thank you. The starting point for us to put it here today in the Alternative is that we believe that everyone should be able to afford to live healthy and climate-friendly. I didn't imagine I was going to school today, but I'm here. There are many who speak almost harder than they did at the private school I attended in the 1970s to us in the Alternative, but that's fair enough. Because there are obviously some who want to talk about motions for resolutions. As a politician, there are things you can do and things you can't do. Depending on the position of the parliamentary elections, you can come up with resolutions and perhaps even propose amendments to the law. This is also a proposal to change something in society, but how people in practice live their individual lives can and should not decide as politicians. When I say that, it is of course because the criticism that typically arises, if you propose such things here, and when it comes to prevention, and when it comes to people's lifestyles, this is where you want to interfere with people's way of life. Because is it not basically up to the individual himself to decide how he will live, whether he will fly everything he wants, whether he will eat all the beef he wants and whether he will smoke all the cigarettes he wants? Of course it is. Humans must have the freedom to be the individual people they are, and we also believe that in the alternative. The problem is that there are plenty of people who do not have the possibility of such freedom. There are some who would like to be able to eat much healthier, there are also those who would like to be able to eat much more unhealthy, for example. My 12-year-old son. He would then wish that he could eat much more candy than what he is allowed to eat, but there are also many who want to eat much more healthy and green food, including many of the people who are struggling with a tight economy in their daily lives. Too much fruit is expensive, especially if it is processed, for example. if you've cut it up or done other things. Then it is expensive, and especially if it is without traces of e.g. too many pesticides. So I think we should take responsibility for giving more opportunities to those who would actually want it to be easier to make the healthy and green choice, and that is why we are putting this proposal forward again, and we are not alone in wanting that. For, as I also mentioned in one of the questions to the rapporteurs, there is in fact a study from 2014, which shows that 87 per cent. The Danes want VAT on fruit and vegetables to be reduced. There are several reasons for this, and I am pleased that many of the rapporteurs agree with some of the intentions of this proposal. Because in addition to the positive spill-over effects this proposal will have on our health, it will also be able to reduce the climate load, because the climate impression from fruit and vegetables, no matter how you turn it, is significantly lower than the climate impression from meat. What the Prevention Commission's report showed back then was that you eat more fruit and vegetables, you eat less meat. It's an effect it has on it. So, both for health reasons and for climate reasons, we believe in the alternative that we should reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables, and at the same time we believe that we should raise the tax on cigarettes, and we propose this time that we set the price up to DKK 80, which is because it has to be a significant increase, because otherwise it has no behavioural effect, and that requires courage. It takes courage to make a sustainable transition, and it is not free of charge, as we have heard today. It is not free in the first place, but it pays off in the long run, and we are not afraid to make political moves that help us live healthy and green, nor am I afraid to get reviling today in the Parliament hall by mainly Conservatives and the Minister over our proposals. Because this is something we really believe in, and it is something we want to see implemented in the long run. So thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144501	Thank you for a moment, there is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144507	No one is scolding, but there are some who raise the view that when we are discussing something here in the Assembly, it must be done on a qualified basis, with respect for the fact that there are many people who spend their time on this, and then we must have the fundamental respect that when a party asks to get something on the agenda here with a motion for a resolution, it has made even the slightest effort to qualify what we have to discuss. That is why I would like to try again to ask: what preparation has the rapporteur made in proposing to finance something that costs 2 billion? kr. with an initiative which also costs 2 billion. kr.? So negative 2 and negative 2 are negative 4 and not 0. Have any committee questions been put? How have we come to the conclusion that this initiative can be financed by raising cigarette prices, which costs money, does not bring in money?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144601	With all due respect to the rapporteur, I would like to say that when I speak to my 12-year-old son, he seems to me to be scolding me. It may be that it is not the rapporteur's intention to scold, but I think there is a lot of scolding in the tone. We are tabling the motions for resolutions we would like to put forward, and that is like the answer I have to that question. Yes, we have asked committee questions and we have asked questions about it. And yes, we know it costs money. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144631	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144633	That is simply not an answer. I wonder how the rapporteur has come to the conclusion that a proposal costing 2 billion can be financed. kr. by raising cigarette prices to 80 kroner. for a package, which according to the Treasury costs more than 2 billion. kr. How did that assessment come about? There must be a simple answer to that. Is it through a committee issue? Is it an interest organization that has done the calculations? How did that assessment come about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144704	We consider, as I do, that other health rapporteurs will also agree that there are some effects of this which are not included in the answers given in the calculations that have been made, and that is why we have chosen to table the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144725	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then there is a request for a second round from the tax minister, who will be given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424144738	Thank you. This is a little unusual, but it is because I actually think it is reasonable in principle. Mrs Pernille Schnoor of the Alternative says that it is all about process and is sorry that it is being reproached. That is not the way to see what I have said, and if I have said it in the wrong tone or instructive or otherwise, I would like to apologise for it. When I've been a little rough, it's because this isn't a private home or a private school, it's the Parliament of the country. That is why it is very serious what is being said from the parliamentary platform, and it is of the utmost importance what is being put forward by legislative proposals and resolutions. Of course, one can choose to ignore it as a politician and the alternative can choose to ignore it, but I do not think, in fact, either as a tax minister or as a parliamentarian, that one can be familiar with those colleagues who need to spend time down here and with the officials who have to prepare the motion for a resolution when they table a motion for a resolution, not the first time that one might ignore it, but the second time that one makes a motion for a resolution that does not relate to funding at all. In fact, I do not think this is respectful of other people's time, and it is not said instructive or anything else, but it is my political attitude. I also think it is a great pity for the alternative, because it makes it easy to reject a resolution which has some good intentions, namely to get the Danes to eat more fruit and vegetables. In pointing this out, it is simply because if we did not have this debate and people just said that they think it sounds fantastic and vote for it, then it would be voted on in the Chamber, and then there would be a majority in favour of what the resolution says, and then I, as the tax minister and the government, am bound to implement it. Then we would do something that lacks 4 billion. kr., which we have to find elsewhere on the Finance Act, and where there are some delimitation problems that we cannot solve. In fact, I think that is a reasonable fundamental debate. And being a member of parliament and dealing with such a motion for a resolution is not just about expressing what you think about something... everyone could sit in Parliament... it's also about explaining and defending and arguing about how to translate what you think into reality. So there are some questions here which I think the alternative fails to answer. I would like to make my ministry available to contribute through committee issues and other channels to qualifying the basis for decision, but I do not think it is reasonable to reduce that part of the democratic process to any process and say that it is completely irrelevant. It does not matter how you implement what you mean, and it is of enormous importance to a great many people, and I think that is part of the debate. Mrs Pernille Schnoor must not take that as a personal attack or attack on the alternative, it is not meant to be. It is just a pious wish that when we spend time discussing one thing down here in the Parliament, it is on as enlightened a basis as possible and as thoroughly worked out a basis as possible. There is also a greater likelihood that there is a majority in favour of the proposal. I think it is a pity and a pity that, as far as I can hear the declarations, all the parties in the Folketing reject this resolution, except the alternative, while saying that they think there are some good intentions in what is good. I would like to make the promise today as Minister of Taxation that if there is a third round of the motion for a resolution we will probably not be able to reach it before a parliamentary election and if I may be Minister of Taxation by then, I will make the Treasury available, and otherwise I would like to make myself available as a private person, in order to raise the level of professionalism of what is being presented. Because I think that today we have had a debate on a non-essential basis, and it is not the fault of the rapporteurs present, because of the quality of the resolution that has been tabled and to which the alternative has given its name.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145128	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145206	We open the debate with the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145216	Thank you. We shall now deal with a motion for a resolution by the Socialist People's Party. SF proposes that the financing of new general housing should always be carried out with 30-year fixed-rate mortgages, which currently have a very low interest rate. According to the proposal, state aid, which is being saved by it, is intended to be used partly to reduce housing costs and partly to increase new buildings. However, there are a number of problems with the SF's motion for a resolution: as you know, the interest rate is difficult to predict. We are currently at an extreme where interest rates are abnormally low. This is not expected to apply in 10 or 20 years. Therefore, it would be extremely risky to put the householder's payment after the current low level. At the same time, it would also be inappropriate for the State to lock itself to 30-year fixed-rate loans as this would greatly restrict the flexibility of the State. Finally, there is no guarantee that the proposal will lead to more new construction. The SF's proposal is therefore on a coalition course with a well-functioning financing and support model for the general new building for many years. The basic point of the existing financing model is to ensure the stability and predictability of the rent. This is done by keeping the household payments fixed and increasing in line with inflation. Of course, the performance of the mortgage loan is affected by the interest rate, also by the interest rate on a fixed-rate loan. In order to get the ends to meet, state aid is therefore designed to cover the difference between the loan and the estate payment. Thus, since 2004, the State has paid more than 30 billion. kr. in grant aid to the general housing sector. The State thus bears the entire interest rate risk. Any gains due to low interest rates therefore also accrue to the State. With the motion for a resolution, the tenants will gain the prize, while the interest rate risk will continue to be borne by the state. This would entail an increase in government expenditure on grant aid as a result of a reduced household payment, i.e. additional expenditure which cannot be financed with a revised interest rate estimate. By demanding the use of a certain type of loan, the motion for a resolution at the same time abolishes the flexibility of the state, which is built into the current model. Here the type of loan can be continuously adjusted e.g. changed capital market conditions. In addition, it is a pillar of the existing decentralised model for the construction of general housing that it is the municipalities that determine the extent of the commitment to new buildings on the basis of an assessment of local needs. It might seem as if SF wants to return to a past time when the state withdrew quotas for the annual build volume. This model was abolished in 1994. The current government is in line with previous governments over the last 25 years... of the view that if you want from a central point of view to influence the municipalities' commitment to support new general housing, this is best done through financial incentives, not through quotas. At the same time, let me stress that we have focused on ensuring cheaper general housing, for example by the latest agreement with KL from 2018 that basic capital for general housing is maintained at 10%. in 2019 and 2020 and in addition differentiated according to the size of the dwelling. To conclude, I should also like to mention that in the context of the parallel community agreement, an analysis of the governance of the new construction of general housing has been initiated. The aim is to identify the need for new tools for steering. The agreement on this point includes, among other things: SF. Once the analysis has been completed, it will be possible to discuss adjustments in relation to the new building. In any case, B 129 does not indicate a viable and necessary road to cheaper general housing. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145628	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145633	Thank you. I think that since the Minister is criticizing the fact that interest rates can change along the way, we are in fact in complete agreement with it. I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that the long-standing model to which the Minister refers, which has been used for many years for construction in the general sector, is only more expensive. As the market looks right now, as the loan financing for housing today looks like, it is more expensive than what has been in the case of private homes for a very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145712	I am starting from the current situation where we have found a model that makes the loans of non-profit housing the cheapest possible loans that can be obtained, and we have done so by means of a State guarantee model. I don't think you can make it cheaper in any other way. At the moment there are cheap mortgages out there, but you should not make your policy for the next 10, 20, 30 years on the basis of a very current situation. It can be seen that since 2004, the State has supported the non-profit housing sector's loan of 30 billion. kr., and therefore the model that SF is setting up here, where the non-profit housing associations score the prize when the interest rate level is low, while the state pays the costs when the interest rate level is high, at least not an appropriate way to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145812	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145815	Now the parallel society agreement to which the Minister refers is also a desire that we really want to live together, that we want to ensure that people have the opportunity to live well. That is also part of the objective, one might say. However, the Minister considers it reasonable that there should be such a large difference in the return on mortgage loans compared to whether you are a private owner or whether, for example, you are a private owner. live in a general sector? In fact, it does not cost the government anything or the state anything to choose a cheaper type of loan, which could then have as a consequence that one could put the rent down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145856	Residents in the non-profit housing sector pay a rent equal to 2.8%. the amount of construction work and it is expensive compared to a situation where interest rates are low, but it is cheap compared to a situation where interest rates are high and over time residents have scored on that scheme. If we count the time from 2004 onwards, that arrangement has meant that the state has contributed 30 billion. kr. So you can't say that the residents are being cheated in this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145931	With that we thank the Minister and then we start the rapporteur's line. Sir. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424145939	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we agree with the ambition of the SF with this bill. We would like people living in general housing, especially those with very high rents, to have a lower rent than they do today. Our own proposal is to reduce the rent in the homes built after the year 2000, which are typically those with very high rents. We're going to spend 0.5 billion. kr. On. This proposal is a little different, it is a general reduction in rent, you might say, to those who have long-term loans, and we can see the point in that, and we support the idea that some of those who live in much more expensive general housing should somehow be given cheaper rents. But when we cannot immediately support this proposal, it is because we think it takes a little more thorough work to start changing the types of loans that are available in the general housing sector. After all, many of us know examples of index loans that were made during a period in the general housing sector and that are fought with in many places because they simply have rents that are close to twice as high as the rent in other types of housing. It is, of course, easy to say afterwards, but we can say afterwards that it was a form of loan which was introduced, which was ill-considered, and which made the housing departments which have the loans and I have lived in such a housing department so that they have some very high rents compared to other dwellings. That is where I think history tells us that we should think very carefully before we begin to change the composition of loans in the general sector, and although I do of course have much respect for the fact that the SF has justified their proposals, I think we should think better than is the case here with a resolution very close to a parliamentary election. So all in all, we agree with the ambition, but we would like to set it up in a different way, and we think we'll get a better proposal out of going through this and doing a little more thorough preparatory work. That is certainly our position in the Social Democratic Party, so we cannot support the proposal. And I have also promised to salute the alternative and say that they have the same approach to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150213	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150214	I am listening to the rapporteur's agreement, after all, that the inequality in rent that exists in the general housing sector is at least not logical and that it is also unfair that, if you are a private owner, you should benefit from a very low interest rate at the moment, while citizens in general housing do not enjoy the same benefit from a lower rent on which this proposal is based. Perhaps you can also understand the rapporteur's speech in that, after an election, we could sit down again and see if there was a possibility that we could actually give the general housing sector a boost in terms of lower rents.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150300	In the Social Democratic Party, it is our view that housing in the general housing sector, which has very high rents, which are typically the newer ones, should benefit from the restructuring of loans made last year. So Mrs Kirsten Normann can actually take me as an income for that. But how to do that in concrete terms in relation to the two proposals that are then, we must look carefully and see if there is any possibility of making policy there, perhaps on the other side of a choice, when things are a little quieter. And then I would say: it goes up and down, including in the housing market. My parents bought a abandoned farmhouse in 1977 and there it was at an interest rate of 15%, I think. At that time it was very advantageous to live in a general home for comparison, and now you are a place where it is the homeowners who may reap the benefit of the development of the time, and we must of course move on to that. But to completely remove these fluctuations I think we'll have a hard time from here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150403	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150412	Thank you. After all, the proposal put forward by the Socialist People's Party here is sympathetic and is a very good idea, given that interest rates are as low as they are at present. Cheap housing is something we all want, but it's really hard to legislate out of. I see that in each of our ways we are trying to approach those goals, although we are still far from it, because it is not so straightforward. As it is today, the idea is for the state to take care of the loans and pay the bill when the interest rate is higher than 2.80%, and vice versa, the profits can be given priority when the time is right. There is always a risk involved when we talk about loans, since we are not only talking about existing loans, which could be converted into fixed-rate loans, but also future borrowings, where interest rates risk being quite different than they are today. The Danish People's Party is not prepared to take the risk as it now stands and change the system, as we also think it is important that in the future you can build general housing at a reasonable rate of interest, regardless of what the interest rate may look like at that time. So if the Danish People's Party is to be able to enter into a dialogue on this subject, it will be in the context of a financial bill debate or some more serious, thorough negotiations after an election and not right up to an election where it comes in as a motion for a resolution. So we cannot support the proposal on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150533	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150535	I think that the Danish People's Party may agree with me that in the large cities where rent in general housing has become very, very high, we need to have a more mixed housing mix and that it is also possible for people who do not have such high wages to live in general housing in the large cities, and that it requires that we find a model where we can succeed in lowering the rent where it is highest. Is that not a common intention that we have, after all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150610	Yes, that is what I am saying: we have many different ways of achieving our goals of cheaper housing. For the Danish People's Party, it is very much about this relocation strategy that we are constantly running to dampen the demand in the big cities. Because that's why prices are high. It's the market that wants it. If we can remove some of the market in housing, then we can also keep prices lower. We are not closed to the fact that, in the context of this whole strategy, we could also go in and look at some of these things and talk about finding a lasting solution, but a solution which is based not only on what interest rates are right now, but also on interest rates in the long term, so that we do not destroy future general housing. But I will not stand by and make any promises for election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150649	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150651	Now it has become a little modern to say that there will be a choice in a moment, and that is why we should not talk about so much. I do not think that is what the rapporteur wanted to say, because we both know that there is a great need for general housing to be built. Therefore, it makes good sense that we also have a discussion with each other as to whether it is possible to provide the general housing sector with the same favourable conditions that the private housing sector has had for a very long time, and thus to have absolute and free in reality, that is to say free of charge, the possibility of reducing the rent in the general housing sector simply by providing for a different type of loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150730	I could stand here and make a lot of promises for a parliamentary election. That would probably give a lot of good cheap points. The Danish People's Party is not like that. We are not making promises that we have no intentions and no certainty of being able to keep. So what I can say for sure is that we will be prepared to look at it. However, by looking at it up to a choice, some wrong intentions come into making legislation, instead of actually seeing it in a way that is more future-proof, so that it is not just about being able to deliver right before a choice, whether it is a promise or it is legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150802	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150808	Thank you for that, President. The Socialist People's Party is proposing here that the state should impose on itself that, in future, non-profit housing may only be financed through expensive loans without flexibility for the state, i.e. the fixed-rate loans. It is therefore contrary to the rest of the state's operation, where the State seeks out the most economically viable solutions. The funding of the proposal must be based on a revised estimate of interest rates, with which, of course, nothing can be financed. The current funding and support model we in the Left think is working well, so the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150846	We just made a brief remark from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150851	I'm just wondering. The Left does not also think that we have a very great need, for example. youth housing? And the Left thinks that this is problematic, for example. to choose some other loans, as you do here, compared to how parents with private homes in Copenhagen, for example. Is it possible, with tax advantages, to buy housing for their young people, as I hear from the Left, to deny that perhaps we should have the opportunity to build some cheaper housing for young people in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150928	In other words, it is the municipalities that decide how many non-profit homes we should have, and it is the state that is hanging on the bill and making the guarantee. And here in the proposal it is proposed that the state should handcuff itself a kind of economic handcuff so that the state loses the flexibility to achieve the most economically viable solution. And that, of course, is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150957	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424150958	But we also lose tax revenue when we give tax credit to parents, for example. Parental purchases. I mean, it's also a political choice. So the question is, how do we actually try to meet the need, for example, for more cheap youth housing? The rapporteur does not share the view that there is a need for more cheap youth housing, among other things. in the cities where the youth institutions are actually located?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151027	Yes, we certainly want more youth housing; we want to ensure that more people can live in our cities too. Of course, non-profit homes already have a great advantage today. The advantage is that you have a guarantee, regardless of whether the business cycle goes up or down, that you have the same low rent, which is lower than what the market value of your apartment would otherwise be. So you have the advantages that when the financial crisis hits a country, you are not hanging on a big bill like the homeowners to whom the rapporteur has otherwise referred. So yes, there are really many good benefits for those who choose to live in non-profit housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151114	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. Then it's the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, sir. Villum Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151127	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled by the SF will have a number of consequences that I do not think we can live with. The proposal means, among other things, that the state will lose the flexibility offered by the current model, as it will no longer be possible to adjust the loans, depending on where the lowest interest rate can be obtained. If the state loses this tool, it ends up with a higher rent. In addition, it is also important for us to note that it is indeed the municipalities that are making the real priority of how many general housing we should have and, as the Minister mentioned, there is a view in the motion for a resolution that this is something that the state must also interfere with. We do not think that is sensible and, overall, it is risky business to mess with such basic things as the financing model we have had for so many years, if we could do it on this basis alone, that we now have a favourable period. I can say that when I bought my first house in 1980, I paid 20%. at interest rate or just a my less than 20%. at interest rate. So to rely on a view that now things are going well, Mrs. Chamberlain, or whatever it is called, so now we're going to party, we don't think it's sensible. It's a dangerous path to go. In particular, the fact that the state will then also be deprived of the opportunity to constantly find out how to place itself in the most reasonable position in terms of interest rates or in terms of loans at any point in time, seems to me to be very important. The state does the same when you build large bridges and, what I know, you have to borrow a two-digit billion. Then the state has different options, and that is what gives the lowest interest rate, and that is also what offers the best opportunity for the tenants in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151339	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151339-2	If I do not remember quite wrongly, the general housing sector certainly did not have very low interest rates during that period, but had very high interest rates in relation to the private housing sector. I would just like to hear from the Liberal Alliance whether the Liberal Alliance agrees that the tenants in general housing have not benefited in the same way from the very, very long period of very, very low interest rates on mortgage loans as the private home owners for their mortgage loans; that it is therefore the private homeowners who have scored the full benefit of the very low interest rate for a very long time, while the general housing sector did not benefit from that development.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151427	I tried by my example from 1980 to say that it is going up and it is going down, and in the slightly longer term I do not think that this is in favour of the general sector. And the Minister has just said that there is already a difference of 30 billion. I just don't understand the concern about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151448	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151450	Low interest rates are of course of benefit to all parties, but it is true that the proposal presupposes that the return which could be at a lower interest rate will benefit the tenants of general housing in the form of a lower rent. But the proposal does not cost the state extra money for that reason. So in view of this, the question is quite simple: is it quite reasonable from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance that the homeowners in the private housing market are allowed to gain large gains and, incidentally, tax gains, while the tenants in the general housing sector are allowed to have a long nose?
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151529	I simply do not agree that it does not cost the state money when it deprives the state of the possibility of placing the loans where it is most favourable. So I do not agree with the premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151540	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party, is on its way up to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151554	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the SF is proposing to require the government to change the financing and rent setting for the construction of general housing to reflect the very low level of the long bond rate and to create financing to build more housing. Let me start by stating that the Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal. It sounds simple and enticing that the low interest rates currently available can be used to lower the rents on ordinary housing, but the matter is a little more complicated than that. After all, the state provides benefits to ensure stability and predictability in the development of rents, so that payments for residents develop at the same rate as inflation, no matter what happens to interest rates. Since 2004, that payment in the form of grant aid has been more than EUR 30 billion. kr. kr., which has actually been paid by the state to ensure tranquillity of the rent. Then it is clear that the amount changes, depending on how the interest rate develops, and right now the interest rate is low, but it is not forever. So we think that at the moment we have a very good model, and we have no desire to change that, and especially not to change the risk we have today. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151734	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we have reached the rapporteur who has tabled the proposal, namely Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424151744	Thank you. We are right in front of a choice, but we are also still standing away in a situation where there is a shortage of housing, a lack of cheap housing. And when you are a homeowner and the interest rate falls, you are taken into account because your accommodation is worth more. You can take out cheaper loans in it. The money you have grows money, so to speak. When you have to buy your own home and the interest rate falls, you are taken into account even if the price of the dwelling increases because your loan becomes cheaper and the investment gives you a better return. When you live for rent in general housing and the interest rate falls, you get a bar buttock in a rough way. Is that fair? One should not cut the general tenants of the country over a comb, for they are as different as the rest of Denmark, and the diversity of the general sector is one of its greatest strengths. But it hardly falls to anyone when I emphasize that tenants are definitely not as gilded as homeowners, not even as most shareholders. Many of the Danes, who suffer most in the economy, live for rent. If they are to be clogged by the low-interest economic gains, even though the economy is roaring out there and benefits everyone else, then I think that you do not need to be a socialist in order to be able to see the glaring injustice. But it may help. As a good colleague once said to me: it is expensive to be poor, expensive, because a lot of money makes money, while debt just creates more debt. That is why the SF has tabled this proposal. As you can read in the proposal, there are a lot of technicalities, but it is basically about more fairness in the housing market; about the falling interest rate that has a positive impact on everyone who owns their bricks and does not benefit those who just live in them. In concrete terms, this should be done by two things, we have proposed cheaper rents and more general housing. This can be achieved by financing construction with long fixed-rate loans, loans which are currently available on the market and which are used on a large scale. With this type of loan, you can reduce the rent for new buildings, considerably, without increasing government spending. For today it presupposes that the construction is financed on an ongoing basis and at a much higher interest rate than the one we are currently seeing. However, the market shows that low interest rates can be achieved for a long time, 30 years ahead, and the proposal will also be able to meet the very high demand for general housing in parts of the country, especially in the Copenhagen area, because the lower borrowing costs will make it possible to build more housing with a rent that people can actually pay. I can hear that there is no majority in favour of the proposal on this side of an election. I can also hear that, fortunately, some people think that it would make sense for us to continue talking about the possibilities of a choice. I have certainly listened to the fact that the Danish People's Party agrees with the intention. I also heard that the Social Democratic Party agrees with the intention. So perhaps there is hope ahead, since we also have a choice right in front of us. In any case, I think that with this proposal we could give a much needed economic boost to a part of Denmark that is in urgent need of it and without it having cost us a penny. I find it difficult to see how one could be opposed to it, and I also hope that it is an opportunity to look further at once we are done with an election. But thank you for the debate, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424152131	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190424152148	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 25 April 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
