ParlaMint-DK_20190131100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 142 (Proposal for a law on additional appropriations for the financial year 2018). Minister for the Environment and Food (Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen): Bill No. L 147 (Proposal for a law on the use of fertilizers in agriculture and on nutrient mitigation measures). Older Minister (Thyra Frank): Bill No. L 148 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Social Services. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100036	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 60 by Martin Henriksen (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 22 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 60 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 61 of Mattia Tesfaye (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 33 (S, RV and 1 SF), against 70 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, KF and 3 SF (by mistake)), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 61 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100200	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. Here are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 64 by Thomas Danielsen (V), Carsten Bach (LA) and Erik Lund (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 22 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 64 has been rejected. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 62 by Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Ida Auken (RV) and Trine Torp (SF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 62 has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 63 of Mikkel Dencker (DF) and can be voted. The vote will end. For the vote 22 (DF), against 80 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 63 has been rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 65 by Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 65 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100416	No amendments have been tabled Would anyone like to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100432	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100503	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100523	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100549	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100613	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100639	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100658	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into three legislative proposals? The division into three legislative proposals has been adopted. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the resolution) 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the resolution) 3, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100811	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131100828	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by stating that animal transport must, of course, be carried out in an animal welfare manner. The area is regulated by an EU regulation which contains a large number of provisions aimed at protecting the welfare of animals during long journeys. The Transport Regulation lays down rules relating, inter alia, to: the area requirements, the journey time and the requirements for the layout of the means of transport. It follows from EU legislation that it is possible to lay down rules for animal transport that are stricter than EU legislation. This then presupposes that the transport is fully settled in Denmark, and this means that both the transport begins and ends in Denmark. The Danish Food Authority states that transports of more than 8 hours are practically not carried out within Denmark's borders, so the introduction of a national rule does not really make sense. On the other hand, it would be contrary to the transport regulation to introduce a general ban on long animal transport out of Denmark. It is estimated that the Commission will initiate infringement proceedings against Denmark if we introduce a general ban on long journeys. As confirmed in veterinary conciliation III, the Government continues to work towards the revision of the Transport Regulation. Despite many calls, the Commission has refused to implement a revision of the Transport Regulation, with the view that there must first be better implementation and more uniform enforcement of the existing rules before it becomes appropriate to draw up new rules. This is an interesting point of view and the government will therefore continue to raise this issue with the European Commission at every relevant opportunity. As I said, the government attaches importance to good animal welfare, including during the transport of animals. That is why many initiatives have already been taken in this area. Denmark, for example, has. took advantage of the possibility of national rules for transports which are fully settled in Denmark, inter alia: additional litter requirements for the transport of injured animals and a requirement that bovine animals are not fit for transport 14 days after calving. In addition, Denmark has interpreted the provisions of the Transport Regulation, so that it is clear from the Danish rules that cull lakes are not suitable for transport over 8 hours. The State Animal Welfare Label was launched in 2016 in cooperation with a number of wholesale and retail food, Agriculture & Food and Animal Protection Associations Cooperation Organisations. In order for pig meat to bear the animal welfare mark, it is a requirement that the animals may be transported for a maximum of 8 hours and subsequently the agreement has been extended to poultry which may be transported for a maximum of 6 hours. And as regards studies on animal transport suitability, I can mention that in 2018 under the EU Animal Welfare Platform, established on Danish initiative, a sub-group has been established for the transport of non- weaned calves. In December 2018, the government entered into a political agreement with Dansk Folkeparti on a new control concept which strengthens control of long transports of animals. During the last six months of 2019 250 loading checks are to be carried out each month, so that every 10 of all transports leading pigs out of Denmark are checked. This is one of the most significant increases in the control of animal welfare in the transport of animals under any government. In addition, the agreement includes, inter alia: a general increase in the quality of the control of better time for the inspection of the individual animal, increased use of GPS data, choice of route calculation system and stricter control of area requirements. There will be an evaluation of the interventions in December 2019 and then a discussion of future controls. As a general ban on long journeys of animals out of Denmark would be contrary to the EU legislation in force in this area, the government rejects the resolution. I think that we should instead work together to achieve the objective within the legal framework in force, rather than having to deal with a long, painful and resource-intensive infringement case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101315	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101321	Thank you. We know that it is a great burden for animals to be sent out on long animal transports. When it comes to pigs for fattening, we know that mortality increases by up to five times. No later than last week, we have heard of cases involving up to 9 000 pigs, which are declared unfit or are dead when they come to assembly centres. The big question is how many pigs have actually died when they get to the country or stable that they will end up in the end. I asked the Minister back in October in a written question and have not yet received an answer as to what reports the Danish Food Authority is getting from where the pigs are being received, i.e. how many dead and injured pigs there are. But maybe the Minister can tell me now instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101416	First of all, I am sorry that the questioner has not received an answer to his question, which has been sent over a long time ago. I will see to it that there is an answer to that. What the answer contains, I cannot stand here and say so much about it. I must stick to that and promise a written answer to the question in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101445	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101447	I'm still waiting in suspense for the answer, but hopefully it'll come soon. The Minister has promised. Back in the spring, the Enhedslisten also had the Minister in consultation on exactly the explosive number of long animal transports out of the country. The Minister said again that he would work in the European Union to limit the long transport of animals. That is also what the transport regulation of the European Union says, namely that we must work to limit them as much as possible. I would just like to hear what the Minister has done quite specifically to limit the number of long transports of animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101525	This is, after all, a subject which I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, no, my Minister's speech, a new title which I shall bring up on every appropriate occasion. And I may have been a little merry in my speech about that, but I think it is a rather strange argument on the part of the Commission that we will wait to change the rules until everyone complies with the rules in force. I think it might be easier to change them before. But this is something we're working on from the Danish side, because I kind of agree that we have to limit the length of these transports. But it doesn't make much sense to do it only in Denmark, because, as I also said, it is difficult to get transports in more than 8 hours unless we start in North Jutland and end on Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101610	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101613	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the Minister is just highlighting the voluntary animal welfare mark that the government has put in place and that there is a maximum requirement in this regard. 8 hours of transport. It has to be an expression of the fact that transport over 8 hours is in fact considered problematic, otherwise it would not have been introduced. Is it true that the Minister actually thinks that transports over eight hours are a problem for animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101645	Yes, this animal welfare mark has these different modulations, where you can choose one, two or three hearts, and then, as a consumer, you can stand down at the cooling counter and say: what does my conscience offer me? So it has a good effect. One of the things involved is, of course, transport time, and there should be no doubt that I would prefer to see as short a journey time as possible. But as I mentioned to Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, there are limits to how much more than 8 hours you can drive within Denmark's borders. And there is a transport regulation which therefore presents us with some challenges here. But of course it matters to animal welfare how long transport time is. Everyone who's been in a car for more than eight hours knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101732	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101734	I am glad to hear that, because it is a recognition that we have a problem here. Then I just hope that the Minister will work to ensure that it is not just a voluntary scheme, but that, in fact, there will eventually be a firm demand that transport time in the European Union should be maximum. The elimination half-life is approximately 8 hours. Is that something the Minister wants to work for?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101755	That was actually part of my message before, that this is something that we must work with our European colleagues on for several reasons. We must do so, partly because, as I say, transport times within Denmark rarely exceed 8 hours, partly because it is not difficult to imagine how lucrative it would be to set up an assembly place immediately south of the wild boar fence, and then to set transports on out into Europe, which is more than 8 hours, if we set unilateral demands from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101828	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131101839	First of all, thank you to Enhedslisten for once again focusing on animal transports. It is, of course, a subject we have discussed a great deal, and I think I dare venture to promise that it will not be the last time either, of course because it is an important subject. With the proposal we are debating, the Enhedslisten wants a Danish special rule to be laid down that animals may be transported for a maximum of 8 hours. I understand the intention behind it, and I think it is good too. There is a need for both the number and length of animal transports leaving the country to be limited. I also agree with the proposers that this is a matter in which the European Union has failed to ensure animal welfare, but at the same time I must say that social democracy is sceptical of a Danish special rule, because how is a Danish special rule to be enforced when an animal transport has crossed the border? Should the German police then ensure that Denmark's special rules are observed? And what if Germany adopts its own special rules that say something else or the opposite? I find it difficult to see how this can be done, and I am sure that the stumped vessels in the industry as easily as nothing will be able to avoid a possible Danish special rule. That is why the proposal here runs the risk of ending up as a blow to the air, a blow to the air which, as the Minister also mentioned, could bring Denmark before the European Court of Justice and ultimately cost Denmark a lot of money. You can't misunderstand me. I think this is an area in which more needs to be done, and I also think that we in the committee should look at whether we cannot find a way of putting greater pressure on the EU system on the Danish side to have proper common rules in this area. Basically, I think that the European Commission has a bad case when the Minister can tell us today that the rules in force will not be changed because they are not respected everywhere. It's a declaration of failure. So on the part of the Social Democrats there is no support for a Danish special rule and therefore not for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102102	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102105	Thank you. Sir. Simon Kollerup's party colleague, sir. Dan Jørgensen, said to Nordjyske back in 2009: "We should take the lead and ban animal transports that last longer than three hours. There's nothing else we can be familiar with. The life we are gradually offering our farm animals is humbly, and we only see them as machines to produce meat and milk. Does the rapporteur agree with his party colleague?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102134	I think that when you know Mr. Knox... Dan Jørgensen well, we also know that if anyone is a person, if not the person who has raised this proposal at the very most in the EU system. He has collected signatures richly in order to raise the agenda of the EU system. And it's still gone where we in the Social Democratic Party think this agenda should be lifted most wisely if you want to make a Danish special rule with 8 hours of transport. In addition, we in the Social Democratic Party are always prepared to discuss how Danish food production improves, becomes more sustainable, how we raise animal welfare, and also how we can keep more pigs at home in Danish slaughterhouses, because this ultimately also gives work to the slaughterhouse workers in the Danish slaughterhouses. So we look alike at the desire to lift the Danish food industry, and I think we also see the same thing about the proposal today being best raised in an EU context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102234	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102236	Now I know that sir... Simon Kollerup is a patient North Jutland, but I think it might be interesting to know how patient the Social Democracy really is. Fourteen years ago, a unanimous Parliament said that we should work to have a maximum limit within the European Union. 8 hours when it's about animal transport... 14 years old... and we haven't come a single step further. When will we reach the pain limit of the Social Democrats to allow animals to travel incredibly far on European motorways, when at the same time we can see that the number of animals sent out has exploded over the last 14 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102320	Let us not be mistaken about the impatient nature of this agenda. That is also why we have been expressing this view for a long time. This does not change the fact that I believe that the EU arena is the right one to raise the agenda on restrictions on driving time in. That is why I believe we should push the agenda there. We must help each other with this, and I believe that the committee procedure can indeed be an appropriate occasion. At the same time, we must use our impatience to raise the quality of Danish food production, including pig production. Fortunately, we are constantly doing so, and we are constantly making demands on the current government, which it has difficulty in fulfilling. We can then look at that when, hopefully, a new government will come into Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102401	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102402	Since so many years have passed without the big thing happening in the European Union, could it not be interesting to make a case in Denmark where we say: No, now we have lost patience, we are trying to introduce it here and thus push on the European Union? We've done that before with other cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102421	There I have to say that I never find it interesting to make a treaty infringement case in Denmark. In fact, I think we should take it quite seriously when we get there. However, I also think, as I also say in my speech, that the EU system has a bad case when you stand on its hind legs in terms of changing the rules on the grounds that they are not being properly observed everywhere. That's how I understood the Minister. So no, I guess I have to say I don't think that's interesting. I think it is interesting to constantly raise the agenda, and we should help each other with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102452	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102453	Now the rapporteur also mentioned the positive side effect of this, namely that we will actually have our animals slaughtered in Denmark. In this way it could be a plus in this attempt, namely that you actually make sure that there is a farm there, there is a slaughterhouse there, and then it is natural to drive the animals over there instead of driving them to Poland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102519	We must do what we can to ensure that as many pigs as possible are only driven from the stable to the domestic slaughterhouse. That's a really good idea. I got it, sir. Christian Poll, that the means of achieving that goal should be for us to provoke a breach of the Treaty in the EU system, but I think that is too risky a path. We have the opportunity to push the EU system, and we have to do that, and then in Denmark we also have some tools in the toolbox, and we have to look at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102551	Thank you, sir. Simon Kollerup. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karina Due, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102603	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Enhedslisten for having raised the debate on animal transport again. In the Danish People's Party we have the basic view that production animals should be slaughtered as close to the place where they were born and fattened as possible. The transport of animals must be limited as far as possible in the interests of the animals. Now it is the case that Denmark is a small country, a really, really nice country, but after all a small country, and it is almost impossible to carry animals around for more than 8 hours in Denmark. That is why the motion for a resolution simply makes no sense. As soon as we are beyond Denmark's borders, EU legislation applies, and we cannot change it from in here if it was as well that we could. So we can only make a special rule for transports up to and including the Danish border. I can't help thinking about what would happen if we made this ban on animal transport in over 8 hours. It would be wanted to create a terrible mass of assembly places just south of the border, and that would mean that assembly places in Denmark would close. In Denmark we would no longer be able to keep an eye on animal welfare at assembly centres; we would no longer be able to intervene with the increased control at assembly centres which are just being launched now. Is that really what you want? Actually, I don't think so. There is no doubt at all that if it were the case that we could decide in full ourselves, then all animals born in Denmark should grow up and be slaughtered in Denmark, and then, for my sake, you could carry the slaughtered animals as far as you wanted. However, this is a motion for a resolution which could possibly give the opposite effect to what is actually going for us to have less animal welfare compared to the level we have in Denmark today. And we can't back that up. However, if we are able to raise animal welfare in the EU and we are also very much in favour of challenging the European Union in this area, because there is no doubt that the European Union has been bankrupt.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102832	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102835	Well, I would like to start by addressing the last thing the rapporteur says, namely that we want to challenge the European Union on this. What does that mean in concrete terms? One should vote in favour of the Enhedslisten motion for a resolution, which is precisely the way the European Union looks at animals, where the European Union sees animals as a commodity, which, in principle, the Transport Regulation requires us to transport around forever for as long as we take rest. So, what is it concrete that the Danish People's Party will do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102908	If that is how I knew what it was, we could do exactly with a snap with our fingers so that we could solve the problems in the European Union, then I think I would have a different position from being a member of the Danish Parliament. I do not think anyone has found the Holy Grail yet, unfortunately, because it is as complex as it is. However, there is no doubt that we will do what we can to increase animal welfare. However, as I just explained in my rapporteur's speech, we run the risk that this could lead to backfires with lower animal welfare, and we cannot vouch for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102942	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131102943	In Denmark, of course, we must take responsibility for the animals that are born here and are reared in Denmark. The fact that others may not be as good at it is difficult for us to take responsibility for. But the Danish People's Party so often prides itself on being the animal's party. There are kittens on the Danish People's Party commercials of buses, but frankly I think it sounds a little hollow. Here, the Danish People's Party will have the opportunity to choose between the EU's view of animals, where animals are seen as commodities, and to limit it and set a limit on how far we can transport animals. In other words, does the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party still believe that one is the animal's party when one chooses the European Union and chooses the animals' rights - and the burden they face?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103034	Yes, absolutely, and that's what I'm trying to explain to you, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, that is, that the consequences of this motion for a resolution could be less animal welfare, because we will no longer be able to control it in Denmark, as it is out of our hands as soon as it is out of our hands. We can't live with that. We will make sure that we can take action ourselves if there is anything to come for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103055	We thank Mrs Karina Due and move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103107	Thank you. Good animal welfare is also of great concern to us in the Left. When dealing with animals, we have a responsibility to ensure that they are properly treated and have their needs met. The Danish food sector is one of the best for this, and abroad Danish food is among other things. known for being produced under very high animal welfare. As you know, Denmark is a large exporting country. In 2018 alone, we exported over 14 million live pigs and many of them are transported to other countries of the internal market. Therefore, it makes good sense that animal transport rules are subject to EU legislation, so that we ensure that the transport conditions for animals are in order, even when they cross the Danish border. We already have extensive requirements for the transport of animals, including animals. animals must be fed at appropriate intervals during transport, have access to water and sufficient bedding, and are required, inter alia, to: ventilation, area per animals and temperature. The proposal here to introduce a maximum national for how long animals may be transported across borders would, as has already been stated in the debate, be contrary to EU law and the free movement of the internal market, so the Left rejects the proposal. Then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103232	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103237	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that we are also transporting animals other than pigs out of the country, including many, many thousands of calves to the Netherlands. These are baby calves as young as 10 days old. In fact, in the same country, the Netherlands, the export of baby calves from the country was banned in 2015. This was done because in the transport regulation it is possible to do so if there is a special animal group to be taken care of, just as we have a special rule in relation to cull lakes in Denmark, and the same was used in the Netherlands in relation to the calves. Why should Denmark not follow the example of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103321	As I immediately remember it now, it is not part of this specific proposal that we have also taken steps in Denmark to give some better incentives for not so many calves to be exported.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103335	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103337	The number of young calves being driven out of the country is actually growing, I can tell the rapporteur. But I'd like to try to botanize a little bit further. Does the rapporteur not think that it is paradoxical that Holland itself has banned the export of baby calves, but because of the European Union it cannot limit the import of baby calves to a horrible production and that we do not follow up and say that we do not want to export small calves that cannot eat and that cannot drink on animal transport because they simply have not learned it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103413	What we need to ensure, and this is also what has happened in the past, is that when animals are to be transported, they must be carried out under proper and safe conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103420	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. Then we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103426	Thank you very much. It is not because I want to say a great deal about this resolution, but I would like to say that, of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for the background to the resolution, because we must, of course, look after the animals we transport around our country, and we must not, of course, accept it if there are people who do not comply with the rules we have now made in this area. Having said that, the authors of the motion for a resolution may not be so surprised that, unfortunately, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. Firstly, we cannot do so because I think that the rules we have in Denmark in this area today actually protect animals quite adequately. We are already making huge demands on animal welfare, and this also applies to these long journeys. Furthermore, it is a fact that transport, which the authors of the motion for a resolution most certainly aim primarily at, is almost always going beyond the borders of the country, and therefore it is also preferable for this discussion to be taken within the framework of the European Union. In my view, it does not really make any sense to make Danish special rules on animal transport for long journeys, and that is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103554	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103558	As I also mentioned to the rapporteur of the Left, we now have a ban on transporting culprits for more than 8 hours when they leave Denmark. Can the rapporteur not just try to explain to me what evidence the rapporteur has that, for example, calves or piglets should be able to handle a long journey better than cull sows?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103624	No, actually, I can't explain that. There are certainly some people with a great deal of understanding about animal welfare and, you might say, the health and care of animals, for which there are good reasons, and I would say this with a very great deal of probability is what has been used to differentiate the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103647	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103648	The latest research carried out on the transport of animals dates back to 2008 and is therefore over 10 years old and the terms which, among other things, include: I should like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances is an important step in the right direction. This is rarely the case when it comes to the transport of pigs, where a lot of people are stowed together. The research also says that it will be in transports where maximum. is two or three layers of pigs. The vast majority of transports today are four or five. I just want to know if the rapporteur will help to see if we have to do new research in this area and see if it actually meets good animal welfare standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103736	Thank you. These are very well-founded questions that the proposer has. Once again, I am not going to be wise about the hierarchy of pigs and so on, but if there is a shortage of research, I would urge the Danish university environments dealing with this area to perhaps focus on an area that might need an update.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103805	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Carsten Bach. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131103811	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking Enhedslisten for making this proposal, because it is insanely important that we take this agenda seriously. In fact, with the government's animal welfare mark, we have a clear indication that long animal transport of over 8 hours is a problem. In fact, on a voluntary basis, the requirement that transport time should be maximum has been introduced. The elimination half-life is approximately 8 hours. So there is a general view in this Chamber that a journey time of more than 8 hours is problematic and that this is something we must try to limit. In the alternative, we are very concerned about the situation here and we are very positive about the Enhedslisten proposal. We believe it is important to challenge the acquis communautaire and, as I hear the rapporteur for the proposers, who has taken a deep interest in the possibilities here, there are actually opportunities in the transport regulation to limit transport time, in other words to go in and work on special conditions, exemptions or how it can now be linked. I think that will be very constructive. We can, in fact, support the idea of a genuine ban on transport of more than 8 hours, but we also know that as such it will cause problems with the European Union and that Denmark could get a case on its head. So perhaps a more constructive approach is to try to draw the rules of the transport regulation as far as possible, with reference to the examples from the Netherlands, as the rapporteur for the proposers has mentioned. For us, there are several aspects to this issue which I think should be considered together. Because it is also the case that we are facing a global climate crisis, which we must work with in Denmark too, and Denmark has a very high meat production. We can thus see a logic in trying to think and find solutions that are about that when we are going to reduce meat production in Denmark anyway, just as in so many other countries, which have signed up to the Paris agreement under the auspices of the UN, it might be natural to slap two birds with a spanking and say: well, then it is the animals we transport far which we cut down on first. In this way, we keep jobs in Denmark and get far fewer animals transported far. So that way you could think creatively and horizontally about this action. For us, it is obviously idiotic that animals are transported so far. It is all about saving money, because we have abattoirs, and we have all types of stables in Denmark. Things are within perhaps 100 or 200 km and will be able to be handled with shorter journeys. The long transport of animals is merely an expression of speculation as to how cheap it can be done here. So if we raise our eyes and think about both climate and transport and go in and look creatively at the transport regulation, I think we might find good solutions. However, as a starting point, the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104138	There are no brief comments. So we say thank you, sir. Christian Poll and go on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104154	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for making this excellent resolution. Of course, I agree with the intention. This is the Radical Left at all. We need as short a transport time as possible. I also agree with the observation that over 8 hours of transport is not in order. I welcome the Minister's assurances that he will work at EU level to limit transport time to 8 hours in general, for example. pigs for fattening. Of course, I also took note of the Minister's statement that the proposal would put a breach of the Treaty on our hands immediately, which I think is problematic. Nevertheless, in the light of what has been achieved, we will of course support the Enhedslisten's proposal radically, but we will also have a further discussion before the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104244	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104248	We have been waiting a long time for this area to be restricted. I just want to hear the radical rapporteur about how long we have to wait for the European Union. Do you radicals have a limit of patience? Should we wait 5 more years, 10 more years? Are we gonna go up to 14 more years? When's the cup full?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104315	Thank you. I have to repeat that we do intend to support the proposal. As far as our patience limit is concerned: as early as 2004, we felt that these rules should be introduced at EU level. We would also like to work for it immediately. It must, of course, be kept up to the risk of a breach of the Treaty, as I have said, but our patience limit is over. We do not think that animals should be transported for as long as is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104341	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104344	I'm sorry I didn't hear with both ears. I thank the rapporteur for wanting to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104350	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104353	Thank you. The Radical Left tends to have good respect for the European Union as a whole, although there may of course always be some things that need to be discussed. That is why I am surprised that the rapporteur for the Radicals here is at least trying, as I see it, both to blow and to have flour in his mouth. Because, on the one hand, they say that they will support the resolution now before us and, on the other hand, they are aware that there will then be a breach of the Treaty. And then the rapporteur tries to explain it by saying that there will be a new debate. What does that really mean? How do the Radicals intend to deal with this situation? It is therefore new that the Radical Left is going to vote in favour of a proposal, so you are going straight into a breach of the Treaty. It's not every day you see it from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104448	Thank you. I very much agree that it is not every day that we do this. When I speak of a renewed discussion, I mean a renewed discussion in the radical group before we come to the second and final reading of this proposal in the Chamber, where we will consider the Minister's observations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104501	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104503	Is it my understanding that the rapporteur's speech was a little out of the question that the Radical Left does not intend to vote in favour of the proposal which has now come from the Enhedslisten? Is this how it should be understood, that one should have just spoken a little, and then one will later finally decide whether to vote otherwise, possibly abstain from voting or abstaining?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104527	We support the proposal now at first reading. We will have a further discussion on the basis of the information I have, among other things. has received from the Minister here during the treatment. And then, of course, we come up with our final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104540	With that in mind, I should like to thank Mr Seligman for his excellent report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and then it's Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104549	Thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. The problem of long transport of animals is not new, but the sharp increase in the number of long transports of animals and the longer and longer journeys that can last up to 4 days makes it even more topical to discuss what we can do about it. In SF, we find it very difficult to defend the long transport of animals. Yeah, I'm actually tempted to call it a mess. Knowing that animals are suffering and that many animals die during transport, we should ask ourselves whether we can live with animal welfare being put at risk in this way. It is not because there has been no attempt to do anything about it, and Denmark has been working to change the EU rules which today allow the long transport of animals, but so far without success. So, first of all, we should make a strenuous attempt to reach an agreement with agriculture to reduce the long journeys of animals, but if this cannot be achieved, we in the SF believe that there is reason for Denmark to take the lead in the EU for animal welfare reasons. You can transport animals for less time and you can make rules in the individual Member States. A reduction in long journeys can be achieved by making an agreement with Germany on common local rules on transport times and an agreement with animal producers and carriers on the same thing. This can be done within the framework of the transport regulation as it stands today. In this way, Germany has made regulations similar to the Danish ones, or vice versa, so that Danish-produced animals are not treated less favourably in Germany. This means that the government must negotiate with Germany on the same rules and that Denmark and Germany each make agreements with carriers and animal producers. I think that if there is political will in Germany and Denmark, there will also be a willingness to push Germany's neighbouring countries, and this is a start to change the European rules. If the Commission makes letters of formal notice and ultimately raises a case, it requires Denmark not to stand alone, but that the government actively works to bring more countries along. It will then be a choice for the Commission whether it will try to punish one, two, three or more Member States to come into line or to change the common rules of the European Union. If there is a real will in the government or in the majority of Parliament's parties, the possibility of such a negotiation and agreement solution should not be rejected in advance by the fact that there are EU rules in this area. It's just too bad. At least in SF we are prepared to work to limit transport to the maximum. 8 hours and thus also supports the intention contained in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104843	Thank you for that and that did not give rise to brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131104902	Trucks tightly packed with up to 900 live pushers yes, sometimes there are actually up to 800 pigs in the trucks. They are loaded in up to five layers and sent either from the assembly place in Padborg or one of the 25 other places we have in Denmark on very long journeys through Europe. Some of the pigs end up in Romania, some end up in Poland, some in Germany and even some in Italy and Greece. In May 2018, the Animal Protection could reveal that the number of these long journeys with live pigs out of Denmark had exploded. In 1990, a little before I was born, Danish pig producers exported almost 9,000 live pigs abroad. By 2017, that figure had risen to 14.4 million live pigs, and we are today the EU's supreme exporter of live piglets. Of the 14.4 million live pigs, 9.4 million pigs were sent out on long animal transports in 2017. So these are transports of more than 8 hours. Looking back just 10 years, we can see that there has been an increase from 1.9 million pigs in 2007 to now the 9.4 million pigs. So it is an insanely large number of live animals that we send out every year on unreasonably long and exhausting transports. Following the discovery of the explosive growth in the long transports of pigs, we, together with the Social Democratic Party, called the Minister for the Environment and Food in consultation to clarify the extent of the problem. The conciliation then showed that the Minister was not willing to do anything about limiting the number of long transports of animals. In addition, since the consultation in spring 2018, a number of cases have been rolled in the press about the transport of pigs. On 13 June it emerged that there were problems with the control of animal transport out of the country. It turned out that the FDA's control of pig transport was hopelessly flawed. For years the Danish Food Authority had done nothing about violations of animal transport rules for both Danish and foreign hauliers. It then triggered another consultation, after which the Minister ordered a demanding statement from the FDA. Last week it came to light that in their annual report on animal welfare, the Danish Food Safety Authority draws up an estimate painting and among other things. has misinformed the Folketing on the number of police reports in serious animal protection cases relating to pig transport to assembly centres. It also emerged at the same time that up to 9,000 pigs die each year or are killed in assembly centres for export abroad. The dramatic figure shows, therefore, how incredibly harsh conditions are imposed on animals when they are loaded on lorries and transported around Europe. That up to 9 000 export pigs die or are killed each year even before they leave the country is deeply worrying, and that certainly raises the question of how it looks to the many millions of pigs that the Danish pig industry sends out on trucks abroad every year. I asked that question a long time ago. The Minister has promised me today that there will be answers before that very long, and I look forward to seeing it very much. However, disclosure on disclosure has shown that it is not only sailing with the control of the FDA, but also with the sanctioning of offences. And the willingness of the FDA to provide information on the number of dead pigs apparently lies in a small place. Therefore, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party have once again called the Minister for the Environment and Food in consultation, so that we can get to the bottom of what is going on in the Danish Food Authority, and why so many pigs die and are killed in the assembly centres every year. There is a picture of how an authority, the Food Authority, which should otherwise be a responsible authority, and which is actually responsible for ensuring a certain amount of animal welfare on transports, has completely failed the millions of live animals transported out of Denmark every year, and that there is no way in which the pig export industry has grown explosively in recent years. But what kind of conditions are we actually exposing piglets to? Yes, the piglets are typically 12 weeks old, weighing about 30 kg when exported. As I said, the pigs are transported on trucks with up to 800 pigs each. They are loaded in five layers and there are no specific height requirements for the transport of piglets and the space requirements are very vaguely formulated. This means that the individual compartment of the truck can easily be crowded and that piglets can have very difficulty accessing drinking water, having room to lie down or have their body temperature regulated. So it happens under cramped conditions in all kinds of weather from the hardest frost to the hottest heat wave. Yes, millions and millions of Danish animals are being sent out on unreasonably long journeys. This is undoubtedly a heavy burden on animals. The evidence shows, among other things, that mortality increases significantly in transports of over 8 hours. As I said earlier, with regard to pigs for fattening, there is a five-fold increase in mortality. But this problem isn't just about pigs either. Denmark also sends thousands of young calves out of Denmark every year. Just 10 days old, young calves are stowed together in trucks and transported for up to 18 hours with a single break. The calves are so small that they are almost just taken from their mother that their legs remain very weak. They find it difficult to keep their balance during transportation, and they often get thirsty for hours because they are used only to drinking milk with their mother and not water from a trough. It goes without saying that such a transport is a nightmare for a baby calf. There are also long transports of poultry. The level in recent years has constantly been extremely high at approx. 20 million mainly chickens and chickens, which are driven onto European motorways. In the EU's Transport Directive, there is currently no upper limit on how long animals may be transported and there are examples of animal transports of up to 4 days. So there is a systematic cruelty to animals every day when pigs, cattle and poultry are sent on hugely long journeys. It's about millions and millions of animals every year. The answer has so far been a lot of fine political intentions, but so far nothing has been done to stop the serious cruelty of animals. The Minister for the Environment and Food said in the spring conciliation on the long transport of animals that the person with the ability has the duty. We must take the lead in changing the rules at European level. In other words, it is something of the same thing that I hear from the Minister today, that he wants to work for change in the European Union, but that we have to wait until a common ground is found in the European Union on this issue. And yes, wait one can calmly say we've been doing that since 2004. We have been waiting for 14 years now, and nothing has happened. On the contrary, the problem has grown. We have seen an explosive growth in the number of transports with live animals. The question is, how long do we have to keep waiting? Is it another five years? Is it another 10 years? Is it another 14 years? Where is the government's limit, where is the Danish Parliament's limit? The Enhedslisten believes that we cannot wait any longer. For every day we wait, thousands of animals are sent out for unreasonably long journeys. Danish farmers are the supreme exporters of piglets in the European Union, and as a nation we therefore, of course, have a special responsibility. But we do not just have a special responsibility when it comes to pig transport. We have that for all long animal transports. The Enhedslisten therefore wants this proposal to put political pressure on the government for Denmark to introduce a national ban on animal transport of over 8 hours. We believe that Denmark should dare to take the lead in this matter in front of the European Union. Put the animals in front of us simply cannot be otherwise familiar. It is regrettable that there is no majority in the Folketing to support the Enhedslisten resolution today, but I would like to thank both the alternative and the SF and the Radical Left for supporting the proposal. And I also hope that, in the further reading of the committee, we may agree to look at the possibilities that exist in the transport regulation in relation to whether there are any particularly vulnerable animal groups, such as the baby calves, perhaps also the piglets, and maybe also find a limit on how long we from the Danish Parliament will wait for us to limit the long transport of animals and set a maximum. In 8 hours. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131105815	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131105829	The debate is open. Minister for the Environment and Food, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131105850	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution here points out that mink production is at the expense of animal welfare. To this I would like to stress that animal welfare is a priority for me, that it is a priority in Denmark and that it is important that we ensure that our animals are kept under animal welfare conditions in good health. I think that is also the case when we are talking about mink production, where we in Denmark have a comprehensive set of rules that should help to ensure animal welfare and animal health in mink herds. There is no doubt that, like other species, it requires specific knowledge and attention to keep mink, which is why a number of initiatives and rules have been taken to ensure the well-being of the mink. The Danish rules on the protection of fur animals implement the Council of Europe's recommendations on fur animals, so that our rules comply with the pan-European welfare standards for fur animals. In addition, it became mandatory in 2011 for mink herds to have a health advisory agreement. This means that four times a year there will be a herd veterinarian on advice visits focusing on mink health and welfare. In addition, concrete training requirements have been laid down for the operator since 2012. The industry itself has also taken initiatives. Among other things, it has... developed an industry code for good farming practice on mink farms. The industry code serves as a guide on animal welfare at mink farms, and it covers both the legislation and further recommendations from the Danish Fur Farmer Association. Regular welfare checks are carried out in a number of mink herds each year, similar to animal welfare checks on other livestock. Special control campaigns have also been carried out focusing on the treatment of sick and injured minks. And on the basis of the results of the welfare check in mink herds, the Danish Food Authority estimates that the compliance with the rules has improved significantly in recent years. In other words, it seems that the initiatives I have just mentioned have had a positive effect. In 2009, a law banning the keeping of foxes was passed, and the reason for this ban was that foxes, having been held in captivity for approx. Thus, 70 years of age are not the same fox, I would mention that still had not adapted to the conditions under which they were reared and remained very fearful. This timidness caused the farmer to have difficulty adapting to captivity. On the other hand, the mink has been cultivated, which is better able to adapt. Thus, fox teams and mink teams cannot be compared immediately, that is, because mink has been much more adapted to a life of captivity. Danish minkavl has a significant extent. Denmark is indeed one of the world's leading manufacturers of minkskins, and it is produced annually approx. 16 million skins. 99% of the skins are exported and, according to Agriculture & Food, minkskin is Denmark's third largest animal export product. It is therefore a very large production which employs quite a lot of people and which has a not insignificant socio-economic significance. The government stresses that mink production is currently subject to detailed rules aimed at ensuring the animal welfare of the mink. In addition, a ban on mink farming will have significant negative socio-economic consequences, and on this basis the government does not believe that there is a need for a ban on mink growing in Denmark. Against this background, the government therefore rejects the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110306	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110312	Thank you. There is not a single animal welfare organisation throughout Europe that says that mink production can be made and, at the same time, proper animal welfare can be achieved. Can the Minister perhaps say a few words about how the Minister can think that there is good animal welfare when there is not a single animal welfare organisation doing so? We can take the opinions of our own animals' protection when it comes to all other branches of production. They say, for example:: We can easily make proper animal welfare for pigs. For example, they have their own mark on it. However, there is not a single animal welfare organisation across Europe that says: Mink in cages can get good animal welfare. How will the Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110354	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110357	Of course there are differences of opinion on this and of course the animal protection organisations have a different attitude to those who are breeding mink. It shouldn't come as a lightning bolt from a clear sky, and it hardly does either. What I really emphasise in my speech, and which I think is important, is that we live up to the conditions that are reasonable, to the rules on animal welfare that are fair and that are internationally established, and that we have an ongoing awareness of animal welfare, that we have an ongoing monitoring of the animal welfare • we have seen historical examples that it has lagged behind and that we then get it right and correct our attention and our control against it. I mentioned in my speech before some initiatives, and I guess they are the ones that the questioner is asking about. You can read them in the summary of my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110457	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110501	Yeah, what the minister is probably talking about is this WelFur system that you use in the fur business. It is just important to get that when we talk about the WelFur system, you talk about animal welfare based on the existing systems. This also means that we are not using a frame of reference to look at how mink in real life out in nature would live, but at how to ensure the best possible conditions inside a cage. Then the minister says that the fox would not be able to adapt in a cage, but the mink could. It is a violent way of keeping animals straight, but I would like to ask the Minister very briefly: there is also a WelFur system for foxes that has been approved, which says that good animal welfare can be done. Nevertheless, the Minister's own party voted to ban fox breeding back in 2009. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110555	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110558	Indeed, the questioner has answered that in his question, namely, that the fox does not get used to a life of captivity. And then it is an interesting consideration that it is violent that animals should be adapted to a life of captivity. I think there will be a little screaming and sloping in the children's rooms of the country if we come out with the rabbits' liberation front and open all the cages and get all the buds and rabbits and hamsters and guinea pigs out again. So there are animals that are more suitable for captivity than others, and that must be taken into account. And that is why we voted in favour of a ban on foxes in captivity in the way that they used to. That's because there's a difference between animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110639	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110643	Thank you. I would also like to address the issue of animal welfare organisations in Europe, including Denmark, which believes that the way we keep mink is problematic and that it can be difficult to find a solution that is in line with the wishes that may be for animal welfare. The Minister says that if you ask those who keep the animals, they mean something else, but can the Minister not confirm that those who keep the animals have a great economic interest in the view they present, while the animal welfare organisations have a non-profit-making purpose, namely that, on the basis of research and knowledge on animal welfare and animal behaviour, they are working to ensure that animal welfare is best suited?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110735	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110739	Although it is really tempting, I should not be here to speculate about the personal preferences, backgrounds and circumstances that make it possible to join different organisations. I appreciate that people do this; I myself am a member of a number of associations, including the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and I very much appreciate that. However, I shall not enter into a debate on whether it is due to research-based attitudes on animal welfare or whether it is due to other things. But there is no doubt that, of course, there is an economic interest for those who keep mink there is, incidentally, there for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110822	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110826	That was not the personal preference I asked about. What I think is relevant is that when an industry or association of producers speaks out about the situation in their own industry, they obviously have a direct economic interest in what one might call inability in some contexts • while when e.g. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110902	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110906	Indeed, there would be a great deal of inability if it were the minkkeepers themselves or the animal welfare associations who, with the hat on them, were to exercise the rules in this area, but it is neither one of these nor the other of these parties who should be sitting here, and it is on the basis of the Council of Europe's recommendation on fur animals that we should do so. So I guess the ability of these two groups isn't really super relevant, as long as it's Mr. Knox. Christian Poll, the undersigned and the rest of our 177 colleagues who are unfolding the rules on this. But we listen to the animal welfare organizations, and we listen to the producers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110950	Thank you, Minister. We shall begin with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131110958	Thank you. With the resolution here, the Enhedslisten wants to ban mink breeding in Denmark for a five-year period. And let me say straight away that we think that is going too far. Firstly, I do not believe that it will lead to better animal welfare if Denmark shuts down production. I believe that such a valuable production will emerge elsewhere in the world, and there I do not necessarily believe that animal welfare will remain at the same level, almost wherever it may be, rather on the contrary, because in Denmark, despite political desires, there are certain measures to ensure that animal welfare is taken care of. Training is required for new mink growers, further training of all operators responsible and mandatory health advice agreements with four annual veterinary visits by a veterinarian. In addition, the Danish Food Authority itself carries out control of animal welfare in mink herds, and the industry continues to have its own control. I'm not sure other countries could live up to that. Finally, there is, of course, also, as mentioned, the industry's own WelFur certification, which is a European animal welfare labelling scheme at mink farms. In any case, this testifies to the fact that the industry is aware of what consumers are asking for, and Copenhagen Fur only accepts certified skins, as I am told. In addition, I also believe that an eye must be kept on the socio-economic consequences of cutting off mink production in Denmark. The fur industry makes a significant contribution to exports and employs, as I have been able to read out, up to 6 000 people. I think it is extremely important for all of them to have a light bill, especially if the result is that production, and hence jobs, simply move somewhere else in the world where animal welfare is even worse. Having said all that, it is, of course, also the Social Democracy's ambition to improve animal welfare in Denmark, and this also applies when it comes to mink breeding. In addition, we also share Enhedslisten's concern about the development of MRSA on mink farms, and we are therefore very happy to engage in dialogue on how we can do so in concrete terms if we are to improve animal welfare and strengthen MRSA efforts in relation to mink growing. After all, we are a circle of parties around our veterinary settlements. It is a very broad circle of which the proposers are also part, and here we can appropriately address the subject. So in those words I hope that we will have a good and constructive discussion of the proposal in committee, even though the Social Democrats cannot therefore support the concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111312	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111316	I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party believes that mink can get good animal welfare in a wire cage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111331	In any case, I believe that mink can have better animal welfare, and I believe that we must work for this all the time. I also believe that the veterinary conciliation is an expression of this. And I also believe that the industry's own awareness of the subject pushes things in that direction. So I think we can improve animal welfare. If we didn't have ambitions, we'd be in a bad place. But we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111355	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111358	I'll take that as a yes. If it's gonna be okay, you can be in doubt. Once again, we must also hear the argument that production will simply move abroad, and it is reasonable to believe that at least according to what is being talked about in the press to China. I just think it is important to mention to the rapporteur if he does not know that the production systems which are largely used for mink production in China follow Danish standards, these are Danish barn systems. So I would just like to know if the rapporteur has any evidence that the animals will have worse animal welfare because production might have to go out when we can see that the market is under pressure and that Danish production will fall by 30%. The next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111439	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111444	Well, I don't have any evidence to say it's all going to China. I can also find other places where mink is produced. But if we assume that it was China, then the logic of the questioner would mean that animal welfare would be equated, and hence no deterioration, what I would suggest could be the case if production were to move elsewhere. But the bottom line will be a clear loss of jobs for Danish employees in the West and at production stages. It's gonna be a guy's note. It will be employees in Denmark who earn their daily bread in this industry who are going to wave goodbye to this work, whether it will be China, Poland, Hungary or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111523	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111529	When I became animal welfare rapporteur, I had one view of the mink business. Like many others, I had seen some horrible clips on the Internet and thought it was reality. Now I take my work as animal welfare rapporteur very seriously, so of course I have examined how it really is connected. I have spent a lot of time visiting mink farms, not only once, but several times, both on visits where I am invited, and on unannounced visits, and I have also been on the sidelines when the concept WelFur has been certified. I figured I'd go into some stables where the animals were screaming and maybe suffering. Instead, I was met by some mink in the cages, who either played or lay and slept with a nap and just lay and gassed himself. Everywhere it was quiet, and the animals seemed to be feeling really good. That was quite an eye opener. That's why I've been doing a lot of research, because I actually think it's pretty interesting, this. WelFur is a certification that only approves those mink growers who meet some very, very high animal welfare requirements, actually much higher than those we set as rules at home. They control a lot of aspects, and in addition to the obvious parameters such as documentation, feed, cages, etc., they also control the mental state of the minks, i.e. how safe the minks are, how playful they are, whether they are aggressive or something. This is the only place I have seen, when I have been out, that some animals' mental health has been checked, and I must admit that I was actually a little fascinated by that. If you had that level in the breeding of all animal species, I would have little to do as animal welfare rapporteur. So sometimes it's actually a really, really good investment to spend some time going out into Production Denmark and seeing what the reality is like. We have to be a lot after those who do it badly, but we should not drive a hetz against those who do it very well. In fact, I think we can be proud of the level of the mink industry in Denmark. Then you could turn the question again and ask what would happen if we banned mink growing in Denmark. Firstly, there would of course be many thousands of people who became unemployed. That is the first immediate consequence of a ban. And then I actually don't think people around the world would stop buying fur. The farms would move to countries where we would have no opportunity to have an impact on animal welfare, nor would we have any opportunity to keep an eye on them. There is no doubt at all that the animals would feel significantly different from what they have here in Denmark, because we are, after all, a country that protects animal welfare, and we must continue to do so. We cannot therefore support a ban on mink production in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111847	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111851	The Danish People's Party's animal welfare rapporteur is not usually pale to listen to the very many sensible animal welfare organisations that we have in Denmark. If there is not a single animal welfare organisation throughout Europe that says that good animal welfare can be done for mink in cages, does it not set the rapporteur's mind at work? Mink is unlike the other animals we have, predators. They are solitary animals; that means they live alone. They are also territorial animals, which means that they are trying to maintain their territory. So we can't compare them to a cow or a pig or a chicken. But it does not surprise the rapporteur, nor does the rapporteur get a little confused when the rapporteur's own position is different from that of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131111953	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I actually take my work as animal welfare rapporteur very, very seriously. That's why I'm listening to all those animal welfare organizations. Many times it is an ideological view whether one is for or against one or the other. I am not on the side of mink farmers, nor am I on the side of animal welfare organisations; I am on the side of minks. When I go out in reality and see that there's nothing to put a finger on, yes, it's an animal in a cage, and that's a hamster too, it's actually good relationships. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112031	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112035	I have to admit, frankly, that I think it sounds incredibly hollow, and I think it is hypocritical on the part of the rapporteur to say that she is on the side of the mink, but recognizes that mink must live in cages when we know that and I have just explained to the rapporteur what would be normal animal behaviour for a mink. But then I'd like to ask another question. Kopenhagen Fur gave party support to a number of parties at the last election. During the public meeting this summer, the rapporteur's party colleague, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, was among others. at such an event at Kopenhagen Fur. Has the Danish People's Party received party support from Kopenhagen Fur, and has it possibly influenced the position of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112128	You know what, I don't know anything about that! I have never received as much as five flat ears from Kopenhagen Fur. I can stand by and say that in all honesty. And then I can't see it has anything to do with this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112138	I must agree with the rapporteur. I think we should stick to the proposal itself. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112150	Thank you. Danish mink is world-class, Danish mink growers produce the world's best minkskin, the quality is top, and Danish minkskin is in demand in large parts of the world. And in Denmark we are among the best when it comes to animal welfare. This is also why Denmark can stand for just over 17 per cent. of the total world production of fur. Animal welfare is high and therefore the skin quality is also in order and high. Mink producers have introduced industry guidelines for good production, as has been shown earlier in the debate. So it is an industry that takes animal welfare seriously and does something about it. Danish mink production earns many currency coins back to Denmark. The export is in the billions class and helps to finance our welfare society, and we must ensure good business and development opportunities for the entire industry, which branches far into Danish society and creates a great many jobs in Denmark. It is a pleasure to visit the good Danish mink farms, just as it is a pleasure to see the developments taking place in the industry, not only in the production at the farms, but also in the subsequent processing, creative design, sales etc. 99% of the production is exported, so it's a key factor for the economy that Enhedslisten with this proposal will then close. One would not think that Enhedslisten had considered the consequences of their proposals. The Enhedslisten's proposal would result in production moving out of the country, and that would not result in better animal welfare. So the Left rejects the proposal and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112343	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112347	The Minister did not answer my question until now, so I am now trying to ask the rapporteur of the Left instead. There is a WelFur programme for mink, which is what one refers to every time should provide good animal welfare, despite the fact that it only measures animal welfare within the existing production system, i.e. in mink. There is also a WelFur system which should provide good animal welfare for foxes. It exists today in those countries where breeding foxes is still legal. In Denmark, together, we, including the rapporteur's own party, have voted in favour of banning fox breeding. Does the rapporteur not see that it seems strange that we are saying that the one WelFur system is not good enough for animal ethical reasons, but when it comes to mink, is it good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112437	No, I don't see any trouble in that. We have reached an agreement on this and, as far as the answer to that is concerned, I can refer to the answers already given by the Minister in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112445	Thank you. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112451	Thank you very much. The Danish mink growers are certainly under pressure. There are falling prices in the market, which means less turnover, less growth and fewer jobs. But the Danish mink industry is certainly also under pressure from other sources with increased regulation, a desire for bans, etc. And in that debate you can actually forget how talented the Danish mink growers really are. They produce one of the most sought-after products in the world in the field of fur, and they only do so because they take very good care of their animals. For decades, animal welfare has been researched at the Danish mink farms, and globally, the Danish industry is widely recognised for its high animal ethical and animal welfare standards. But the debate in Denmark has perhaps been marred by a few pictures of sick animals, which one would probably find in even the most, what should I call it, organic breeder of free-range animals in Denmark. Unfortunately, it is all the images that are on the retina and indeed on the retina of Enhedslisten's proposers. But reality is just a completely different one, as Mrs Karina Due has already described very well here from the platform. What interest should Danish mink growers really have in mistreating the animals and thus also destroying the precious skins. The pictures we have seen are certainly not representative of the vast majority of mink in the Danish stables. We need to ease the pressure on an industry which actually earns billions of kroner for Denmark in export and which creates growth and jobs, especially in parts of the country, where such things do not immediately hang on trees. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112717	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131112725	Thank you. In the alternative, we have not developed a comprehensive animal welfare policy, which is why we have not yet dealt with mink breeding in our democracy. So what we are doing in the alternative is that we are making a Member's mandate on this matter, and that means that I cannot say today what our mandate is, but we will find out on Monday. We will send a message to our Members today, and then they will have a deadline for Monday, and depending on what our Members say, that is how our position will be on this proposal. Some of the stuff that we're gonna send out, I'm gonna go over it here. It can be said on the one hand that mink is just one of many livestock in agriculture. There have been minks and skins production for many generations, and this is generally accepted, and we usually do. So that could be an argument against a ban. It can also be said that the Danish mink industry has made a number of improvements and is therefore ahead of a number of other countries in terms of animal welfare and other conditions. Then there is the comparison with this with foxes, who have been in the debate several times, and in which we have therefore banned the same thing with foxes, and one can have both a position for and against whether mink and foxes are similar or whether they are fundamentally different. One can also take the discussion here about whether it is reasonable to keep animals alone because of clothing production, fur production, or one should do so by more having the whole in mind, i.e. both produce food and clothing of the same product. It is with reference to the fact that we wear leather clothes, which is also a leather product. Finally, there are the environmental aspects, where it can be said that a mink product lasts for a very long time, often for generations, and that could speak up for it. On the negative side, it can be said that the mink today differs from all the other livestock we keep from being a territorial predator, which means that their natural behavior is very far from small cages, as they are kept today. Grazing flock animals, of which we care most, we can find ways of keeping, which are relatively close to their natural forms of life, but it is less obvious to mink that it is possible to do something similar to natural conditions. And then it can be said that there is this problem of whether it is okay to keep animals alone for clothing production, and there you can have some market approaches. For example: It is the case that there are now a great many people on the market, i.e. fashion houses and clothing groups, who go out and take an active position on mink, and who will probably influence the market in relation to demand, and there you could say that you should react to it. Finally, there is the relatively high environmental impact that is about to minkhold, which also affects Denmark. The various advantages and disadvantages of voting for or against this proposal are therefore something that our Members will take a direct position on over the next few days, and I will therefore come back to the second reading, the third reading, with our final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113120	Sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113124	Of course, I respect the fact that in the alternative, there are thorough discussions in order to find a position on specific policy areas, but I would still like to ask the rapporteur just to find out where such a line should be: does the rapporteur think that mink can get good animal welfare in a cage? We know that mink is predators that are different from all the other animals we keep, we know that mink is territorial animals that live along riverbanks, along bogs and have large areas like the territorial and solitary animals they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113204	My role here right now in relation to our members in the Alternative is to remain relatively neutral, but I can confirm that there are no animal welfare organisations pointing to solutions for mink in wire cages. So, yes, I would like to confirm what the author of the motion points out here, in other words that it may seem that at least the animal welfare organisations do not see solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113234	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113248	Thank you. We are, of course, radically concerned with both animal welfare and sustainability. I am of the impression that the mink at home is taking place at a safe level, the rules are being observed, the minks are, I believe, significantly adapted to a life of captivity, and then they are killed on the spot. I myself have seen killing last year on a mink farm, and that is a huge contrast to the debate we had earlier in the Chamber today on animal transport. These animals are not transported, they are killed on site. Moreover, it is quite sustainable production. The feed is waste from the slaughter and fishing industries, and there is therefore an abundantly well-documented WelFur programme, which is therefore both transparent and which is also being respected. So all in all, given the size of the industry, I do not think that mink growing should be banned at home. I think that this is taking place on reassuring terms and we do not support the proposal from the radical side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113353	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. This is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113401	SF supports a phasing out of mink breeding for such quite fundamental reasons. Mink is an active predator whose nature is that it travels alone over large areas on land and in water. To breed them in small cages without the ability to run, jump, swim and hunt and in the vicinity of many other minks is to go contrary to their natural needs as territorial and solitary animals. As long as mink breeding is allowed, we work in SF for improvements, both in terms of animal welfare, environmental impact and limitation of MRSA, and we are, like the rest of the Danish Parliament, involved in the veterinary settlement. On many points, we also recognise that the Danish mink production has worked to improve conditions, but that does not change the fact that it is difficult to imagine that commercial production can be created to ensure the minks the conditions necessary in relation to their natural needs, as the animal protection organisations have also expressed it. At the same time, it is important to be aware that a ban in Denmark would not like to lead to increased breeding elsewhere. It is therefore important that, in the context of phasing out, the government is required to work towards a European and global reduction in the breeding of fur animals which are not domesticated and which therefore have natural behaviour that cannot be accommodated in cages. A great many European countries, most recently Norway, are already phasing out mink farming. In other places the rules have been tightened so much that in practice it will phase out mink production. So the development goes the right way, now all Denmark has to do is get on the wagon. Sir. Kristen Touborg, who was SF's animal welfare defender, had an active role in succeeding in phasing out fox teams and in the same way would have fought for the same in relation to mink breeding. At that time it was decided to phase out fox teams over 15 years of age and whether it is realistic to do so for a mink of five years, I do not know, but we will have to discuss this in committee. However, if we could now reach broad political agreement to stop fox farming for animal welfare reasons, we should also be able to do so with mink. So in these words, we support the proposal to phase out mink breeding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113623	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131113628	Norway, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Austria, Croatia, Luxembourg, Belgium, Slovenia, Serbia, Turkey, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have done what the Enhedslisten is proposing today. These are all countries where a ban or phasing out of mink has already been imposed. Germany and Switzerland have introduced such strict rules for the keeping of animals that, in practice, there will be a ban on mink breeding now or in the long term. Poland, Ireland, Lithuania and Estonia are currently discussing strongly whether mink growing should be banned or phased out. So it has not been taken out of the blue when we propose to ban mink growing in Denmark today. In very many countries in Europe, important steps have already been taken to ban a form of production which is a thing of the past. The proposal we are debating today is therefore an attempt to get Denmark to stand with some of the many countries in Europe which have already banned or are in the process of phasing out mink breeding. History shows, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, that we have been able to take that step before. In 2009, the Folketing introduced a ban on fox farming. Mink is just like fox predators that should not be kept in cages and will never be able to get proper animal welfare in a cage. At that time, as it should be now, it was also an animal ethical consideration that weighed the heaviest, when a broad political majority put an end to fox farming. For the mink and the fox, unlike our other domestic animals, is a predator. Mink is not domesticated like cows and pigs, who have been in human custody for 1,000 years. Mink is wild animals with all their instincts intact. Mink lives in nature on very large territories, which extends over several square kilometers, typically along rivers and by bogs. And the mink is not only a territorial animal but also a solitary animal. This means that the mink in nature travels alone and that it lies in its nature to defend large territories on many square kilometres. Mink doesn't have swimming skin for nothing either. They do, because they are made from nature to hunt under water, and they are willing to dive down to 6 m and can swim up to 35 m under water. In Denmark, however, we keep these territorial animals, created by their nature to hunt in rivers and travel across large areas, in small cages on, yes, what corresponds to the size of a newspaper. Here they are kept without the ability to swim, without the possibility of hunting, climbing trees or at all exhibiting just a minimum of their natural behavior. In addition to being territorial, as I said, mink is also solitary. That is to say, they walk and thrive alone. The fact that minks are solitary animals also makes it extremely problematic that they are bred on large farms with minks for tens of thousands in cages in long rows close to each other. The cramped and completely unnatural conditions for the minks both stress them and make them also often display compulsive behavior. They can do this by biting their own fur, biting the other mink in the cage, or actually biting their own kids to death. Mink in cages also often exhibit stereotyping behavior by wandering around restlessly or by being completely apathetic. So it is behavior that we do not see in nature, and that is what scientists call distrust. According to animal behaviorists, territorial behavior and aggression are a natural property of a predator like the mink. It is therefore not the temperament of animals that is wrong with, but the conditions under which they are housed by humans. Despite the fact that there are rules on what is called environmentally enriched cages, where there must be shelves, straw and pipes, we still find many bite damage on farms. At the same time, we see that more and more minks are kept in so-called group housing, where even more minks are together than in the traditional pairwise housing methods. Instead of developing towards better animal welfare for mink, production develops in a way even further away from the nature of the mink as a solitary and territorial animal. No matter how much the fur industry talks about sustainable production with good animal welfare, it is and will not be possible to set up a commercial production where mink can thrive, because it simply cannot be done to enrich the environment and control itself out of the fundamental problem that you cannot breed territorial and solitary predators in small cages. Apart from the fact that keeping predators in small cages is totally unacceptable in terms of animal welfare, there are also a number of serious both health and environmental nuisances associated with mink breeding genes that very many neighbours of mink farms around the country have to live with. In one third of the Danish mink farms, the multi-resistant MRSA bacteria have also been found, and it is not only the minks that carry the MRSA bacteria, it is also the employees of the mink farms. The Danish Health Authority now considers working on a mink farm or living in a household with someone working on a mink farm to be a special risk situation in relation to MRSA. Add to that the problems of severe odours and flies and, above all, the negative impact of mink farms on nature. The sufferings of the minks and the negative impact on both the environment and health seem quite foolish when you think about what it really is for a product we are dealing with. After all, this is not a vital product that each of us needs. This is a product which is purely luxury. Nobody dies of cold if we stop producing minkskin, and there is nothing to stop replacing minkskin with other materials. Mink can be replaced with fur that comes from hunting, and mink can also be replaced by by by-products from food production, or you can jump on the latest trend and use artificial fur of other materials that gradually have both the same quality and aesthetic value as mink fur. So there are plenty of possibilities that do not mean that predators should be kept in small cages. Armani, Gucci, Hugo Boss, Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and H&M... a lot of fashion brands that I don't know so much about are among some of the fashion houses that for animal welfare reasons have removed fur from mink and other fur products from their collections. Likewise London Fashion Week in 2018 was completely fur-free. It shows, of course, that parts of the fashion industry also actually support stopping expensive ethically reckless production. Denmark is the world's largest manufacturer of minkskin, and there are about 1,300 mink farms left in Denmark. They produce about 17 million skins annually. And, yes, of course, a ban on mink • what several of the rapporteurs have also addressed will hurt some of the minkkeepers. We should also remember that, compared to some of the mink growers who are there now, if we make a phasing-out period of 5 years, it will fit in with the fact that they hit the retirement age. Of course it will hurt some mink farmers, but we cannot keep closing our eyes and putting the economy above completely basic animal welfare for millions of animals. Of course, in Denmark in 2019 we should not have a production of completely unnecessary luxury products, which means that 17 million predators should be kept in small cages. In the Enhedslisten we therefore believe that it is time for us to abolish a form of production which is, to put it mildly, a thing of the past and that mink growing must therefore be phased out over a five-year period. I would like to thank the SF for supporting this proposal. I look forward very much to hearing what is found out in the alternative. In addition, it is sad that there cannot be a majority in the Folketing as it looks right now. We usually boast in Denmark that we have high animal welfare. But when it comes to the minks, there are a long, long number of other countries we usually compare ourselves with those who have taken the lead. I think we should follow the long line of countries. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114535	Thank you. There is a comment from Mrs Karina Due, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114543	I would like to hear from the rapporteur, who is constantly talking about the mink being a predator, whether the rapporteur is not aware of the great breeding work which, through hundreds of mink generations, has been behind the way in which it is produced today. They are animals that are domesticated; they are animals that do not have the same urges or the same instincts that a predator has. Is the rapporteur not at all aware of what kind of breeding has been done? The minks that are being produced today could never survive in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114629	Well, thank you for the question from DF's rapporteur. I just want to start by stating: Mink is not domesticated animals. And research has also been done where you take mink, which is used in the ordinary mink production, and put them into nature. And what actually happens when you do that is that you find out that exactly all their natural instincts are intact. They hunt in exactly the same way that wild mink does. They swim in exactly the same way that wild mink does. They climb trees in exactly the same way as wild mink does. So I am simply not buying the paragraph put forward by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114703	The rapporteur for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114709	I have a very brief question. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen last visited a mink farm?
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114719	I was in 2013 when I went to agricultural school. Then I visited the mink farm at Foulum, which belongs to Aarhus University.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114730	Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114734	I would just like to know if the rapporteur can confirm that it may be difficult, in relation to animal welfare, to get an overall view of whether animal welfare is actually in order. I mean, like... A lot of people think that when a dog yawns, it's sleepy. However, when a dog yawns, it is typically an expression of when you know the dog's behavior that it will dampen a conflict. And it can be difficult to figure out this kind of thing, so you actually need factual knowledge if you are to know if animal welfare is okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114813	It is quite true that animal welfare is not so simple to read or look at. It is also true that animal welfare cannot be measured simply by performance or productivity, because we have animals in the Danish country that have been bred to produce only without necessarily having good animal welfare. But I would also like to add a few words to where exactly it is going wrong. This is the WelFur system where they say: Within these production frameworks you can make good animal welfare. It's kind of the same as when you say: yes, it's really good that a conventional pig producer who has fixed lakes doesn't get shoulder wounds. But the fact that the bitch doesn't get shoulder wounds doesn't mean that the bitch has good animal welfare. Well, that's the framework that you work in today. That's the cage you work in today. And you can't say that gives good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114903	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190131114918	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, February 1, 2019. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
