ParlaMint-DK_20190404100024	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Question No. F 41 (How and when will the Minister resolve the monitoring problem and help those families who are not currently able to receive help to monitor a family member with intrusive disabilities because there is no legal basis in section 95 of the Services Act). 3 to provide support for monitoring in your own home?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100112	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100146	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100228	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100247	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100315	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100334	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100400	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100420	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100457	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100518	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100548	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100604	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100635	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100655	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100727	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404100739	Thank you very much. We, together with a number of other parties, have tabled amendments to this proposal which is to be dealt with today. The purpose of L 158 is, after all, to strengthen the supervision of so-called consumer loans, which are also known as quick loans. And that's important. We have seen how in that industry some business methods have been used which are absolutely unacceptable; where one has speculated on the inability of economically disadvantaged people to pay and has made it its way of making money. Fortunately, therefore, all parties in the Folketing have also agreed that these consumer credit companies should be tightened up. That, among other things, is the proposal. This means that the FSA will have stronger supervision of these companies, for example. in relation to how they assess the citizens to whom these loans are typically directed. So far, so good. The problem then was that the proposal had the inherent consequence that the consumer ombudsman, who has so far had a task of supervising and helping citizens to conduct complaints and other matters, had reduced the scope for continuing the activities in the field of consumer credit and the ability to monitor consumer credit companies. And there were several of us who were worried about that, because the purpose of this bill was to tighten up, and so it would be very, very unfortunate if the result were to reduce control of this industry instead. That is why we also had the impression from the Consumer Ombudsman, who very convincingly explained that, although supervision of parts of the work of these consumer credit companies was transferred to the FSA, it was, of course, possible for the consumer ombudsman to maintain his part of the supervision at the same time. And that is why I am very pleased to note that there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that will support the amendment which ensures that the consumer ombudsman maintains his options as before, while at the same time transferring supervision to the FSA. Of course, I have a particular praise for both the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, which have supported this. This shows, and I think this is always interesting, that the people's government works; that the legislature, as we are here, does not always follow the government's calls, but also sometimes says that there is a need for some corrections here. So I just think it's gratifying that both in general and of course also concrete in this case, a majority in here has agreed that we should not relax the consumer ombudsman's ability to control this industry. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101051	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101059	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, adopted by the committee, on Amendments Nos 1 to 6. 7 of a minority (EL, SF and ALT), adopted by a majority (S, DF and RV), on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9-11 of a minority (EL, SF and ALT), joined by a majority (S, DF and RV)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101141	Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101157	Thank you for that, President. This proposal is, as the President rightly said, about the entrepreneurship companies, and the reason why I am taking the floor is that the Social Democratic Party, together with the rest of the opposition minus the Danish People's Party, has tabled an amendment in which, instead of using popularly speaking, we are putting the big hammer on these entrepreneurship companies to suspend the scheme for a year and trying to find a better model. This must be a model which, on the one hand, closes the gap with regard to the possibility of raising tax debts and tax fraud, as we have seen in some companies, and, on the other hand, the model we need to find must contain all the positive aspects of the entrepreneurial environment, for which the scheme has also provided opportunities. After all, the scheme was launched and set up under the former S-R government in order to ensure better opportunities for entrepreneurs to quickly and easily set up a company to develop the dream that many entrepreneurs have been working with for several years. Quite in line with the line taken in business policy in this Things widely over several years, it should not be bureaucracy that stands in the way of, for example, entrepreneurs living their dream, creating a company that can benefit themselves, their idea and, ultimately, Danish society. A very thorough report has been made on the scheme which shows that there are problems in some places, and of course we have to deal with them, but the report also shows that there are very many companies that will be successful, there are very many companies that will be the place where new, exciting industrial entrepreneurial projects and other business projects are developing. And that arrangement, we think, is too good to be knocked down with the big hammer, as is done with this proposal. We are concerned about the consequences and, as I have said, we would have preferred to see that the present system had been suspended, spent time trying to see whether a new system could be found which would ensure that the positive aspects of the entrepreneurial model and this scheme could live on. So there must be a call to vote in favour of the Socialist amendment, remembering what was meant by the original scheme, namely that we should make life easier and less bureaucratic for entrepreneurs, so that we can continue to have a strong entrepreneurial environment in this country. So there has to be a call to vote in favour and at least a call to the government that we follow this continuously, and that we find together in the width that was behind the original scheme, and look at how we can continue to make life easier for entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101456	Thank you. No one else wants to speak. Excuse me, Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101505	On the part of the Radical Left, we support the amendment which seeks to ensure that instead of completely abolishing the entrepreneurship scheme, we try to take a year's time-out to see if we can actually solve some of the problems involved in the scheme, rather than simply shut it down, because it must be easy to start business in Denmark. That's why we made this arrangement. And if there is an opportunity to actually save it by suspending it for a year and looking at whether you can solve some of the problems that exist, then we think it is a good idea and we hope that the Folketing will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101541	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101548	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, SF, ALT and RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV, SF and Joachim B. Olsen (LA)) voted against 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 1, 3 to 6, 10 and 11, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. 12, tabled and joined by the same, minorities lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101830	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101854	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101920	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404101940	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the alternative to the proposal. Of course, the consequences of climate change must be taken very seriously. The government does, and we act specifically on the warnings that climate science gives us. That is why the government also supports the intention behind the proposal to ensure knowledge about the consequences of possible temperature increases. The government is working hard for Denmark to make its contribution to the Paris Agreement. Here the goal is to keep the global temperature rise below 2 degrees and preferably below 1.5 degrees. Specifically, we have set the goal of Denmark being climate neutral by 2050, and with the energy agreement and climate play we have set the course for how to get there. With the 2018 Energy Agreement, we invest massively in the green transition towards 2030. With the agreement, Denmark achieves a renewable share in electricity consumption of over 100 per cent. in 2030. In addition, in the autumn, the government launched a climate and air project that ensures that we are already very well on our way to achieving our climate targets in the EU for 2030. With the climate initiative, we have addressed the difficult sectors: agriculture and transport. As far as the transport sector is concerned, we have set the ambitious goal that from 2030 no new traditional petrol and diesel vehicles will be sold, and from 2035 no new plug-in hybrid vehicles will be sold. We are already well in the process of implementing our policy here. We have set up a Commission to look at how the spread of green cars on a large scale is to be successful. The Commission has just had its first meeting, and we are constantly pushing for the European Union to have a plan for phasing out petrol and diesel cars. We are also addressing agricultural emissions. Denmark has one of the most efficient agriculture in Europe, but we lack the climate solutions that can help ensure a full conversion of agriculture. After all, agriculture itself has announced that they will be climate neutral by 2050. Solutions must be found that work in the field and that support a healthy economy in farms. That is why we must invest in research and the development of new climate solutions for agriculture. That's what the government has set 90 million. kr. In addition to this, there is a need for further measures to be taken in It is ambitious on behalf of the climate. We have entered into a climate partnership with Agriculture & Food and Organic Landsforening. This will show how agriculture can contribute specifically to meeting Denmark's 2030 reduction targets and the target of climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. I am pleased that the government's signals to agriculture and the food sector have already worked and that agriculture is now coming under the banners and will do even more about their climate impact. Our efforts also extend beyond Denmark's borders. We are actively working to ensure an ambitious implementation of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We do, among other things. through bilateral cooperation with other countries and through active participation in international organisations and fora. Denmark is a green superpower and a driving force in global climate action. And we're gonna keep going ahead. We will do so, among other things, when we lead the energy trail at the climate summit in New York in September. And in the European Union, we continue to work for the EU to set an ambitious target for net zero emissions as soon as possible by 2050. The EU must show global leadership for the climate, and Denmark must take the lead in this direction. But no matter how hard we take action to slow down temperature increases, it is important that we are equipped for climate change. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to drought, but also in case of extreme precipitation and changes in sea level. Here, too, I am fully in line with the authors of the motion for a resolution on the need for solid knowledge and data. In this way, we can better plan in relation to the consequences of temperature increases. That is why the government has, among other things: launched the climate class for which the DMI is responsible. It must equip municipalities to cope with the consequences of climate change. With the climate class, we in Denmark have a very good foundation for assessing the consequences of climate change. The climate class gives municipalities access to climatic information about, among other things: expected drought, sea level, storm tides and precipitation under different scenarios for temperature increases. It can, for example, be done. is used to plan the infrastructure and climate adjustment efforts in the individual municipalities. In addition, the government, together with KL and Danske Regions, has improved the basis for making decisions about climate adjustment efforts. We have done so with the initiative of shared data on terrain, climate and water. This ensures better knowledge of the consequences of changing climate conditions such as cloudbreaks and groundwater increases. After all, we have listened to the municipalities and are giving the municipalities what they need so that they can plan long-term for a changed climate. It is a sensible and realistic approach. The measures are precisely in line with the proposers' wishes to meet the cost of climate change and ensure that we are best equipped. Of course, we always organise our action against climate change based on the latest research. So in this sense, we are fully in line with the proposers in terms of the importance of this knowledge. In concrete terms, the government is also dealing with the global warming scenarios developed by the UN Panel on Climate Change. It is only sensible to relate to the knowledge that 831 researchers from all over the world have been behind and more than 3,500 researchers have helped to ensure quality. Some of the increases in temperature, which the proposers believe should be counted on, do not run away with the scenarios set out by the UN climate panel. It's inappropriate. We need to deal with what the United Nations Panel on Climate Change assesses. We are, of course, keeping an eye on developments in the results of climate science and, if the UN climate panel were to assess later that there is scientific evidence for planning according to other scenarios, the government will of course take note of this. But now and here the government estimates that the ongoing efforts are sufficient. That is why the government cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102635	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. No, we do not, because there are brief remarks. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102643	Thank you. I was just trying to run up and whisper to the Minister that it is B 84 that we are discussing when I heard the speech, because I did not quite understand what that speech had to do with this proposal. This is about what it has for socio-economic consequences if we have 11⁄2 degree, 2 degrees, 4 degrees or 6 degrees in temperature changes. What we really are curious about to find out is what this will cost society, because very often when we come and propose something, we are told that it is really expensive or that it can affect welfare or food production, and we must also make money. But how much does it cost to do nothing? How much does it cost right now that we don't do enough? What will be the bill for that in the future? So I would really like to hear the Minister's attitude to the proposal itself on risk scenarios for the socio-economic consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102742	Thank you for the question. As I read the motion for a resolution, it is, after all, about developing risk assessments and scenarios for global warming. That's what I dealt with in my speech, too. In fact, I very much agree with the proposers that it is quite sensible to constantly assess the socio-economic consequences of climate change, and if we are to do so, it is of course important that we have as good a basis as possible to do so. That is why the government has invested 27.2 million. kr. in developing the climate class, that we have entered into the very close collaboration with the municipalities on data and data information. This is because you have to be as well prepared as possible and you have to be able to assess the consequences if the temperature rises by 2 degrees or by other degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102835	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102837	Then I have probably misunderstood the Minister back on 27 November last year when he said: if we just sit with our hands in our laps, a lot of costs will rise explosively here. I know that the climate class does not have the full socio-economic impact of climate change. So, what does it cost society as a whole, if it happens, what does it cost for our food production, what does it cost all around so that we can start to hold it up against the necessary investments? Does the Minister really think that there is a full socio-economic overview of the economy of Danish society at these temperature changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102917	No, of course the climate class does not give the full consequences of the socio-economic consequences of climate change. The climate class is a very good tool. This is the first step, compared to the fact that municipalities and other actors have as good a tool as possible to assess where to invest to address climate change, and therefore the climate class in assessing risk assessments and also scenarios for global warming is a very good tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404102957	Thank you. What this is about for us is due diligence, and it is about 15 years ago that Nicholas Stern made his report, where he just showed that the longer we wait, the greater will be the consequences of this climate crisis. And that means that what we think is needed is that when we get these big round numbers from large international organisations that so and so many billions it will cost the world, it might be interesting to get a picture of what that means for Denmark, also because we will then get this attention that it actually pays to do something far more drastic in relation to the climate crisis, because then it will be cheaper in the end. So can the Minister not see that it will be timely care to ensure that the precise overview of Denmark's situation is taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103057	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. In fact, I believe that the climate class is an excellent starting point in terms of seeing what the consequences are. After all, the climate class provides estimates in relation to seawater increases, heavy rainfall etc., and what the consequences are and where it would be sensible to invest, also in the municipalities. However, I do not wish to deny that consideration can also be given to whether, in the longer term, we should also look at whether we should further develop it, whether there is a need for further impact assessments of climate change, what they mean for Danish society, and where it would be sensible to invest in addressing the consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103139	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103142	Yes, but as far as I understand the tool that the Minister puts forward, it is quite narrow, that is. a tool that looks a little at such something climate adaptation classic, that is what it means for the coasts, for flooding etc.? We're thinking it a lot wider with this proposal. We are thinking that we need to look at financial risks, we need to look at what may have consequences in relation to immigration to Denmark, what it means for infrastructure, health costs and a number of other things. Wouldn't it be relevant to bring these things in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103216	As I said before, I am not opposed to the fact that it would be sensible to continue to reflect on the nature of the questioner's question. The climate class, which will be completed over the next few years, is, after all, the first concrete tool we have actually established in order to assess what happens in different scenarios of temperature increases. I think that is a very good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103246	It may be said that it is a beginning, that you will sort out where, if we continue to have heavy rainfall, it is that there is, for example, that there is. urban communities that have the problem of being flooded, but what about trading? That is where I miss a little bit in the Minister's speech about what will then be done, especially in relation to agriculture. It says that 90 million has been set aside. kr. for research, but we are faced with the possibility of modelling the EU's agricultural support so that we can better bring our agriculture into a more robust state where we can handle changing weather year by year. I would really like to hear from the Minister how the government views the possibility of modeling agricultural aid from the European Union, which amounts to 10-11 billion. kr. There is indeed an opportunity to remodel within column 1. This is something that has not been discussed so much, but I have heard one minister be a little sympathetic to it. Can the Minister see that there are some options for remodelling our agricultural subsidies, which could make it possible for us to have a more climate-restraint agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103359	You could imagine. I also think that when we look at the entire agricultural and food industry, it should actually be much more regulated across national borders than each country itself is responsible for the regulation of agriculture and food. It is therefore not a frightening consideration that, in the context of the economic regulation of food and agriculture in the EU, climate is also being considered in this context and how to support the green transition, how to support the objective of climate neutrality by 2050. It is our view that both in the Danish context, but also in the European context, there is a need for resources to be allocated to research and development of new solutions to reduce and reduce the climate impact of agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103457	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103459	Thank you. That is what I am choosing to hear as a positive commitment that we will look at the possibilities. One is that you have some small amounts of money for some research, but there are actually some billions from the European Union which could be used for choosing to cultivate in a different way. Then it may well be that we have to see that there are areas along our watercourses that can be irrigated with water at times when we have these heavy rains and that we therefore need to have more grassland and to promote it through an EU subsidy. So I actually interpret the Minister's answer as being positive about modeling a lot in EU support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103532	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103534	Thank you for that comment. At least that is a consideration that needs to be considered. It is also a tool that we very much, very much, would like to make more use of, because this is a way in which the agricultural industry is actually able to reduce emissions in a cost-effective way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103556	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404103612	Thank you for that and thank you for raising this debate. I think this is a discussion that we need to take much more often with each other. I think it is also a discussion which, paradoxically, many citizens out there had a very, very concrete example of last summer. The alternative even in the motion for a resolution mentions the high costs to farmers who had less profit on their lands. But also for a large number of citizens it has had costs. They have written to us and asked: What are we really doing, for now our houses are cracking because the ground under the houses is dried up? It was a new consequence, one might say, of a very extreme and warm summer, which of course is not proof of climate change, but an effect of climate change and the extreme weather conditions with floods, as we have seen, not least in some of our fjords around Roskilde and elsewhere. And the droughts will only increase. I have to say that I do not really think we lack the knowledge that it is expensive to do nothing. I think we need more political will to actually do something. I am a little bit unsure about what the alternative here is all about, because although I fully agree with the discussion and the political point, one can say that it is extremely expensive to do nothing, I would actually say that this is part of the review of the green arithmetic models, the green projections we discussed a few weeks ago. So, what actually happens to our nature, what actually happens to our resource consumption and something like that when we look forward in the light of 2025 plans and 2030 plans and something like that, and when we are going to develop a tool for what the policy we are discussing and adopting in here means for development? It is clear that this can be seen as a review of what the global temperature rise means and what the consequences are for Denmark, but it is a little difficult to translate into what we should do in Denmark; we do not directly affect the global temperature increase because we simply have a relatively low CO2 So I would really like to discuss with the alternative in committee, where we should put these here, you might say, scenarios in. Is it in the Climate Act, is it in the calculation model audit? Because I think there is a need to clarify that it is not free to do nothing. The Social Democrats would very much like to support this. I'm not sure if this is the right model or exactly what we need to achieve, i.e. whether we need to have exactly these degree scenarios. Because when the government says that a climate atlas has been created, I kind of agree with the alternative that it is not adequate for the socio-economic consequences of this; but it is a tool that makes it quite tangible what it is for some costs the municipalities will get if the water levels rise. And then you can ask the utilities what they really will do if the groundwater mirror rises or if the floods become so and so. So I think we are all going down that road, and my starting point will be that we are trying to discuss it in concrete terms in committee. I mean, are we just gonna do these scenarios and put them in the corner? There I would say that we should perhaps just have some politicians who said honestly that it costs money not to do anything, because we already know that today. That will be my starting point. If we're gonna get these risk scenarios in, they're gonna have to be part of what we're doing and what it means for the development we're seeing. I'm not sure how you've ever imagined that. But so, it is my call that we take that discussion in committee, because I think that if I understand the proposal here, it is all about making it clear that it is expensive to do nothing. I would like to discuss this, that is, how we can get it into our decision-making framework. Because if the temperature increases hopefully only 11⁄2 degree or 2 degrees, we know that there will be bills on it, but we also know that it is not only the Danish effort that determines whether we land at 11⁄2 or 2 degrees, and we have to deal with one thing and the other because we do not know how fast we can get the rest of the world. But it is indisputable that we must, of course, do our part. I have promised to salute from the Radical Left o say that one would very much like to bring this into the light, and that one is very interested in calculating the consequences of inactivity...
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104059	May I just say that one can say what the Radical Left thinks, but one cannot give a rapporteur speech for another party. But if you cover the Radical Left, that's fine. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104110	I am not going to speak on behalf of the Radical Left. I am going to call for a discussion in committee on this, and also say that they would like to see these consequences brought to light.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104122	It is best to present your own views. There are a few comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104129	Thank you and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I am always pleased to discuss and discuss proposals in depth in the committees. That is what we have them for, precisely to get smarter, and this is a first reading. But in order to explain some of the intention, it is all about the fact that when you propose something, you are often told that it is really expensive. Is 20 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Is 80 billion. kr. over four years, which we propose to use, much? It has to be kept up to what. We are responsible for what is happening in this country. We can work through the European Union for what is happening there, but we can act on what is happening here, and that is why we think it is necessary to know: what is it really going to cost Denmark if this happens? So we have to take the lead, press on, do all the measures we can, but it's like starting to judge: what is it to do? What's it to do enough? What's a lot? What's a little bit? I don't think we have that picture. Because I can discuss and argue that 80 billion. kr. over four years is a great deal of money, but I can also argue that it is not enough at all in relation to the task we are facing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104237	I understand that, and I am quite in agreement with that premise. My problem is that the costs that will be to Danish society of climate change will be quite high, in fact, regardless of what we do here at home, and that is why it is perfectly legitimate and right when the Alternative says that it will cost extremely much if the world does not manage this. It is also perfectly legitimate to say: What can Denmark do to contribute its share? What do we have to do to have order in our own house, sweep by our own door, all these things? But no matter how many billions we invest in our climate efforts, we will also have to spend billions to adapt to the climate because that change will come no matter what. There it is just that I am saying that if the alternative would like to have, if you may say so, to focus on the fact that it is quite large figures, that this is quite large billion costs, then I am in agreement. But I think we know that, and that is my point here, whereas the other is more: are we moving in the right direction? Are we pulling in the wrong direction? What do we do at home? How do we sweep for our own door? There you can count on a little more precise consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104355	But I do believe that, if we act, we will change something. I still believe that we can change something, including globally. In fact, I believe that we can act on this climate crisis. So I believe that investing in Denmark is useful because it helps to change something else. We can show the way, we can push on etc. etc. If we do not have the faith, that is to say that we can do something, but that things are going wrong anyway, because the others are doing nothing, then we are going to go bankrupt immediately. So I think it's about us doing everything we can. This also means that we need to know the price of not doing anything and keeping it against the bill that there will be in relation to doing something. But I look forward to discussing it further in committee so that we find the right arrangement and I hear it as if we are not opposed to starting to find out: what is this economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104439	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104440	Nor should we hear it as if the Social Democrats and I, as rapporteur, are not hopeful and do not think that Denmark can influence the rest of the world by taking the lead. I think we should just say that some of the bill that the alternative here points to climate change is going to pay anyway, even though we are doing as much as we can in Denmark and even if we are actually showing the way. Because the climate change that we cannot avoid is already expensive and we must expect that it will also be difficult to bring the rest of the world along. But what we have to decide in the Folketing here is of course: Should Denmark be a pioneering country? And yes, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104526	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104528	Thank you. It's a little bit in the same line, so I'll make it short. I was just concerned because, in his speech, the rapporteur said this because we need to be able to establish a link between action and the consequence. After all, this global climate crisis is such that this coherence cannot be set up directly. So does the rapporteur agree that yes, it is important to look at this and create some kind of system so that we can assess it, but that we will never be able to say that one windmill here gives so many centimeters less water there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104603	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104604	Thank you for that question. In fact, it is my criticism of the proposal, in this way, if the point of the proposal is to show that it has extremely serious consequences if we do not deal with the climate crisis. I agree with that, and I think we already know that. Some of the expenses come in Denmark, and you can be more precise about what is. This was one of the experiences of the citizens of last year that farmers experienced last year and that many around the fjords have experienced along the way when their cellars have been flooded. So it is true that we can do that. I'm just saying that what needs to guide our action is the more a matter of what our decisions in here have consequences, and then the fact that we want to be a pioneer country to try to reduce global climate change, which is extremely expensive. So it's actually because we have to deal with both things that I think so. Yes, it is a very fine backdrop politically, but I think we know that it is very expensive not to, and if we can do something together to illustrate it even more clearly, I am happy to accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104707	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104710	It is good that I have understood it correctly. That's why we say in the proposal: let's do these statements for 11⁄2 degrees, 2 degrees, 4 degrees and 6 degrees. Because then we can see that if we give it full screw now and go for 11⁄2 degree, it doesn't get so bad that if we go for 2 degrees, it gets a lot worse, and that if it's 4 degrees, it's really bad, etc. So it's just to make sure that we get it all on the table and can see the difference in the consequences between the different scenarios.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104742	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104743	I still agree with that. But the consequences of inactivity and the economic consequences of 2 or 3 degrees of temperature increase will of course hit very massively and cost many billions. We already know that. We also know, unfortunately, that the bill you get at home is a small bill compared to the bill you get at some other places on the ground, where there will of course be countries that become uninhabitable, some of them because they are disappearing, and there will be very many places where you can't grow your land at all. So I agree that it is essential to know that this is also a problem, a cost, a major challenge for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104834	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404104842	The resolution here from the Alternative is to develop risk assessments of global warming scenarios in different temperature scenarios, i.e. 11⁄2 degrees, 2, 4 and 6 degrees in 2050. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that it is good to prepare for the future that you are facing, and therefore it is also sensible that we prepare for climate change and that there will be higher temperatures in Denmark in the coming decades. According to the UN climate panel, the temperature rise is up to about 3 degrees that we can face in 2050, and not 4 degrees, nor 6 degrees that the Alternative imagines we should prepare for. Nor do we quite agree that the temperature increases that we will probably experience in Denmark will have such serious consequences for, for example, the food supply or the opportunities to farm here in Denmark or for increased air pollution to occur at home, or that financial risks should be particularly great with the realistic temperature scenarios that the UN climate panel lists. However, it is quite a real risk that climate change will lead to more and more heavy rainfall, that we will have a higher sea level and also an increased frequency of storm tides. These are, of course, things that we need to adapt to, and that is also why DMI has created this climate atlas, which has already been mentioned earlier in the debate, where the individual municipality can just go in and see exactly where in their municipality there is an increased risk of flooding in the event of the monster rain or an increased risk of flooding due to storm floods. It is, of course, a very good tool that the municipalities can and must use to prepare for the future that we face. This is a sober way of tackling climate change, and of course it is something that we support from the Danish People's Party. The proposal from the Alternative here seems to us not just to go one or two steps further, but many steps further, and we want to count on temperature scenarios, which are twice as high as the UN climate panel expects. If you then start talking about the fact that farming is not possible or difficult in this country and that there are many other bad things happening, then we think that you are helping to breathe into the doomsday scenarios and doomsday prophecies, which unfortunately there are people in Denmark who believe in, but who may not have the great realism built in, but who can probably be used to scare people up and scare people. There are people in Denmark who seriously go and say that Denmark will be uninhabitable or that the Earth will be uninhabitable in a few decades. There is no basis for claiming that, but if you start counting on scenarios of 6 degrees temperature increase or more for that matter, then we risk feeding on these fear scenarios and doomsday prophecies. There is no reason for this, because the UN climate panel says that the temperature increases in Denmark or worldwide will be up to about 3 degrees in the next 30 years. So, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, we would like us to relate to the concrete reality that we are facing. And we are already doing this in the form of the climate policy that we are pursuing together between all parties here in the Folketing, but also know that we are designing our society for a different climate in the coming decades. But we cannot be involved in implementing the motion for a resolution here from the Alternative, so we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105255	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105258	Thank you. Apparently, there are slightly different views of what the UN believes, thinks and has written. I understand that the UN has developed different scenarios for different levels of temperature increases, and we would like to lean on them and make them concrete for Denmark. This means that we will try to understand what it will mean for Denmark if the temperature ends at 11⁄2 degree or 2, 4 or 6 degrees. That is the point of the proposal. We will go much further than just looking at what it can mean in terms of water on the coasts and such things; we will also go down in what it means, for example. means for migration to Denmark, or what it will mean for our infrastructure, so that a much broader impression of it can be formed. I would say that it may well be that some people think that we can land at 3 degrees I hope so, but already there it is quite violently but now the United States has resigned from the Paris Agreement, and it is an unstable situation the world is in, so we cannot know where we end up. And that's why it's relevant. Does the rapporteur not also think it would be appropriate to know much more about these details?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105406	So, in my rapporteur's speech just now, I actually explained that the Danish People's Party considers it relevant that we are preparing for the concrete reality that we are facing, and this is a concrete reality where climate change is taking place. Of course, we must do everything we can to prevent this happening at all, and that is what we are doing by pursuing climate policy. However, we must also face up to climate change, and we must prepare for it. But so, we can prepare ourselves for the concrete reality we are facing, and that is that there will be more rain, higher water levels and more storms. We must prepare for this, but we must not prepare for temperature scenarios that science does not consider realistic either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105449	Sir. Christian Poll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105453	Fine, so let us stick to the three-degree scenario that the rapporteur is most interested in. What the rapporteur points out is that, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, nor do we have the right to vote in local elections. with the climate class and other instruments should look at the direct effects of the climate crisis, but what we say in our proposal is: let us now go further and try to calculate what this can mean for our health costs, for migration to Denmark, for infrastructure that is being destroyed, for food supply, etc. Isn't that also relevant?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105527	Well, we can each stand and claim what is important and relevant, but I simply do not believe that temperature increases in Denmark at 11⁄2 degrees or for that matter 3 degrees will give radically changed conditions for farming. I do not believe that we will have a food crisis because of higher temperatures. There are many countries which have a significantly warmer climate than Denmark and which can still run agriculture, so I see no danger of that. As far as migration is concerned, Mr. Christian Poll well that this is something that the Danish People's Party is trying to counter in every way, so if anyone wants to migrate because of the climate, then we will also try to avoid them coming here and instead help them in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105614	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105616	It is just to understand the rapporteur. So the rapporteur does not believe that it has any particular significance or socio-economic consequences, whether we have the 11⁄2 degree scenario, the 2-degree scenario or the 3-degree scenario that the rapporteur is talking about. Does the rapporteur not think it would really be good to have a basis of knowledge and not a basis of faith when we talk about this? And if we simply enter the three-degree scenario, will the rapporteur support it, if that is what the Danish People's Party believes to be realistic? We're talking about not believing anything or thinking something, but getting knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105652	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105653	Well, knowledge is really good to have, but what the Alternative wants is that we are about to predict what the world will look like in 30 years' time. We do not think this is realistic. What economic reality looks like in 30 years' time, we cannot possibly know today. And how much it is affected by the weather at that time, nor can we know in any way today. This is something we must adapt to as time progresses. The things that we know will happen, of course, we have to conform to. And we are already doing this with the climate class.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105727	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105730	Does this mean that the Danish People's Party believes that this is the way we should take that year by year and see what it costs if there is an extreme drought? Don't you think it would make sense to try to make some projections and look at what this looks like in terms of consequences, if we get to this, this or this, so we have some control tools? Or are we gonna totally drop this kind of thing and just take it kind of ad hoc?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105754	You always have to prepare as well as possible for the future, but I certainly do not think you can make such long-term projections of how the economy will be and then pin it on how the weather will be by then. I think that is completely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105812	Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105815	I did a little bit of what the rapporteur said in his speech about scare pictures. And I would just like to ask very briefly whether the rapporteur is of the opinion that, for example, to appreciate what it costs to do nothing is to contribute to a frightening picture of climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105837	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105838	I mean, it's making scare pictures if you want to start counting on climate scenarios that science doesn't think are realistic. If you start counting on the 6-degree scenario, we're way beyond what science thinks is realistic. Then you're out there where you're only helping to put a fear in people for what could potentially happen. We are not going to participate in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105902	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105904	Okay, so the rapporteur would say that raining at 11⁄2 degrees, 2 degrees or perhaps 3 degrees, i.e. what I think the rapporteur considers to be more realistic, would be fair enough. It would be fair enough to try to put a price on what it is, it costs for our society or for that matter for the world, and others have done so. It's not a scare picture, so that would make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105927	Then we are on the subject of what we are talking about, what is a realistic future. But as I also answered Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist just now, I do not think it is possible to predict what the economy will look like in 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105941	I guess that's the end of short remarks. No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr just got erased. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404105951	It's okay. I just noted that the rapporteur was just talking about these scare scenarios. I am thinking of the fact that Danish agriculture lost a great many billion kroner this summer almost what amounts to 6.5 billion. kr. The two years before, they had an incredible amount of water. And that is not because we can predict what will happen next year, but by having some assessment of the risks associated with climate change, we can, among other things, do. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. That is why I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is beginning to talk about it as scare scenarios; I would say it was due diligence. Does the rapporteur not think that the challenges of the professions should be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110044	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110045	Yes, we must certainly take seriously the challenges that we can see coming. When I talk about scare scenarios, it is because some have proposed in this resolution that we should count on scenarios of 4 and 6 degrees which science says is not going to happen within the time frame with which the resolution operates. However, when we talk about realistic temperature scenarios, we obviously have to prepare for them, and it is obvious that there can be stronger rainfalls in the future. We have experienced this, not last summer, but last summer. But it can also be replaced by warmer weather. So, of course, we must look into the future that is realistic in front of us. And we can easily look at that, but to look 30 years ahead in time I do not think there is any realistic picture. It is all about prophecy, and I think that is so unscientific, and there is no need to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110144	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110147	Now science will judge that you have to And what is thought-provoking with the IPPC researchers is that they say very clearly that if we do not act, there are different scenarios for how the world can evolve. They then talk about the whole world; I think it is relevant to focus on what is going to happen in Denmark, so that we can be ready. It can, for example. be in the Icefjord, where the water rises and you can then feel it in Roskilde city; it may be that some of our small islands may experience increased increases in the sea, and that some of the islands may therefore face very great challenges in preserving their dikes; it may be Lemvig city that will experience an increased water level. That's to mention some of them. And it is not in five years' time, it may not be in ten years' time. I hear the rapporteur opens up a little. Why don't we try discussing this a little more openly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110300	I said in my rapporteur's speech some time ago that we in the Danish People's Party would like to prepare ourselves for the realistic and concrete reality that we can see, and that is why this climate atlas has been created, where among other things. The Icefjord and other sites have been designated as sites where there is an increased risk of flooding. And that is why the municipalities must use the climate class to prepare for that future, and that is a realistic future. And I would say that you fail your task if you don't prepare in your own municipality for these scenarios. So you have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110331	Thank you, and then there are no more comments. Sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110339	Thank you for that, President. After all, we are discussing the motion for a resolution from the Alternative to develop risk assessments and scenarios for global warming. And there is no doubt that global warming will have consequences, which, of course, we have an obligation to deal with, why the government has already taken several initiatives at this stage, on the one hand, to a climate-friendly policy that must oppose this development, on the other hand, to concrete tools such as climate atlas via the DMI, which has been mentioned, which ensures knowledge at regional level, UN climate panel reports and the UN World Target Office in the Ministry of Finance, and, on the other hand, we make ongoing calculations. Just as today, when we can see that the alternative has four motions for resolutions, and it is likely that three out of the four motions for resolutions from the alternative today will have negative climate consequences, it is of course obvious that we should assess the proposals we are putting forward ourselves, so that it is not necessarily an authority which should point out the climate consequences, for example. The alternative resolution today has. My assessment is that at least 2-3 of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Alternative, which we are discussing today, will have climate consequences. So it's a good idea to make these assessments, but of course we can do it ourselves. One of the things we have already taken the initiative on is, with the Finance Minister in the lead, to look at the climate consequences of the legislative proposals we adopt in the Folketing. And that is precisely where we're working on creating tools that should be able to get these impact assessments done, because this is an important area. And it's not just in climate; it's within all of the UN's world goals that we have to make these assessments. So we in the Left welcome the whole intention behind this proposal and also welcome the fact that we have taken many of these initiatives and that we agree that we must move in the same direction. If the Conservatives do not reach the legislative stage of this proposal, I have the honour to speak on behalf of them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110615	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110620	Sometimes it is so funny, because when both the Minister and the rapporteur spoke, I thought a little: is this the resolution we are talking about that we want to deal with first, or is it all sorts of other things? I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the Minister for Climate Affairs, who said in November, as stated in the comments on the proposal: if we just sit with our hands in the lap, a lot of costs will increase the explosive and I have a clear expectation that it will be good business to make a strong effort against climate change and that it will be far too expensive not to do anything. Do you agree with that? And does it think that there is a complete overview of the economic consequences that climate change will have, for our society, from the perspective that this is the effort that has now been started to talk about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110710	I am one hundred percent in agreement with the Minister. That was question one. Question 2: Do you have 100 percent? an overview of the consequences? No, you don't. And it is also far too one-sided a thinking to have that, as an alternative, you only focus on climate and a few of the other points mentioned in it. That is why the government says: let us embrace the UN's global goals, and then we try to make impact assessments of all 17 world goals when we make legislation in the Folketing. It is incredibly complicated and there are no easy solutions, but there is no doubt that when the alternative is now, for example. suggesting more untouched forest, is the answer that yes, it has climate consequences. Ergo one can say that it is not very good for the climate to make untouched forest. When it comes to some of the other world goals, the answer is: yes, it is for the benefit of biodiversity. So it counts positively on biodiversity. So there are different consequences for all legislative proposals, and we must try to assess them more carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110808	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110813	Again, it's B-84 we're dealing with. We are not talking about the assessment of legislation, and I do not think the rapporteur has ever heard it, and if the rapporteur dives down and looks at the questions, the rapporteur can see how many times I have just asked for assessments from the global objectives. So let us just deal with the B84 that we are dealing with, and it says that the government is required to draw up risk scenarios for the socio-economic consequences for Denmark by a global temperature increase, etc. It is not, of course, an assessment of the law, it is a risk scenario that needs to be made, so the question is: does the rapporteur agree or disagree with it? It's just that we're dealing with the first reading of B 84, that I'm asking again... it's not to talk about everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110847	I mean, I only relate to the first treatment of B 84, where you want risk tools to be created for some different scenarios. And there is my whole point that this is precisely what the government is trying to do in advance, but there is no simple solution to it. It's very, very complex, and you can set up all sorts of scenarios, and there'll always be discussion from bill to bill about what's the real effect of this. And you're never gonna be able to put two lines under a line. So it is more complex than that and it is not fast oneliners that will save our climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110927	Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404110931	I understand that the rapporteur would like to have this overview, to some extent at least, and he is also referring to what the Minister has said, it may be the climate class, which is a kind of climate adaptation in the classical sense, i.e. what the direct effects of the climate crisis are on Danish conditions. What we want with this proposal is to go further and then say: well, there are also some derived effects, some second-order effects, some effects on our food supply. These may be health costs, but we also mention financial risks. And all of this can have much more economic consequences than they do directly. So my question is: wouldn't it be relevant and I know there's a lot of uncertainty about all this getting an idea of the magnitude of these second-order effects of the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111034	All the consequences of climate change, of legislative proposals, of everything you can quite rightly have of concerns in this area, are relevant to have assessments made of. And this is also why both members of the Alternative and all other parties are constantly asking the Ministry of Finance, asking the Minister for Climate and Energy for calculations of various scenarios and consequences. And I would recommend that the alternative should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111100	That's it. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111112	The Enhedslisten supports the intentions of the proposal to calculate what are some risk scenarios and socio-economic consequences that are if we arrive at an increase in global temperatures. Various scenarios have been mentioned in the proposal. I can see the logic in that, if the UN runs at certain intervals, then in Denmark, too, you follow the same intervals when it has to be assessed. I'm a bit practical, so I'm asking myself what this is for and who it's for, and I think that this risk assessment is one of those things. should be used in the municipalities, and I think that we in the Parliament hall often have too little focus on the role of the municipalities in the solutions. If we look at the climate problems we have and their consequences, we see that it is often the case that municipalities are in the middle of the problems and have to solve the problems facing citizens. I can see some advantages in that if you have more calculations for what it is we can risk if the weather continues to go crazy and we get some temperature increases. So it is not only the increase in temperature that has consequences; it is also, for example, the increase in temperature. more abnormal rainfall, which may be part of the problem and which must be dealt with. I think, for example, that we have a dilemma with the fact that some urban communities are being flooded, with which insurance companies have an expense, and then the premiums are rising, and this is also going to be a disadvantage to the citizens. It is also a huge disadvantage for citizens when their cellars or other are flooded due to violent weather, and there is an expectation that the municipalities will solve the problems that the community will somehow solve those problems. There, it may be relevant to have calculations of what it is actually, this intense weather brings with it costs, and where is it so sensible to make some investments? There you can see at the moment that there is some climate adjustment that does not happen because the municipalities have to provide a 25%. cofinancing for it, and there I think the government should certainly come back to the Folketing and propose changes so that our utilities can fully finance the necessary solutions to deal with the extra rainfall. The proposal by the Alternative does not seem to me to be financing. I don't know how much this costs or how much it costs to calculate it. In the Enhedslisten we have calculated how to make significant CO 2 CO 2 But we haven't calculated what it is that costs are saved by making the conversion, and it's also harder to do, because we are in the middle of some global climate change that will hit us in Denmark, and we will be hit, even if we make the sustainable transition. Even if we get to 100 percent. renewable energy in a relatively few years and contributes to the global solution, so it is not certain that at the same time we will not also be affected by anything that concerns the overall climate problems and the climate change we are in the middle of. But, of course, it does not mean that we should not do it, because we absolutely must do it. I also think that we need to focus more on what we actually have in terms of opportunities for action, because it is then mentioned how our agriculture can be affected by climate change, yes, but we have the possibility of changing our cultivation, and we have the opportunity, if we model agricultural support from the European Union, to promote a more climate robust agriculture. What's that supposed to mean? Yeah, it could, for example. If we have a crop which, as a whole, is doing well over a year, we can grow grass rather than maize, and it could be grasslands which can also be flooded with additional rainwater if we have a problem with some of our rivers flowing over periods. There you could make some support schemes so that the farmer was compensated for having a cultivation from which society gained something extra when we have the monster rain. So overall, in the Enhedslisten, we are positive about going into the fact that these risk scenarios have to be calculated and what it means for different sectors, and I think it would be good if it were to run with what the UN has of arithmetic models, so there is something we can use in parallel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111549	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments to the rapporteur. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404111556	Thank you for that, President. In the interests of safety, I think I will start by providing a service to the authors of the motion for a resolution and confirm that it is motion for a resolution B 84 that I am now speaking in favour of. And B 84 is about the possibility to develop risk assessments of scenarios for global warming. First of all, I agree with the proposers that the price of global warming cannot be made up in dollars and cents alone. So far so good. Nevertheless, it must be understood that the proposers of the motion for a resolution here will require the government, even on behalf of taxpayers, to draw up risk scenarios for the economic consequences for Denmark of global temperature increases of 11⁄2 degrees, 2 degrees, 4 degrees and 6 degrees respectively in 2050. I also agree with the proposers that global warming has a wide range of consequences which are very difficult to value. And then you might say that that is precisely why you should try not to do so. However, as the proposers do in the proposal, to claim that it costs human lives, perhaps it is enough to tighten the conclusion a little. I also agree that it is very difficult to put a price on a human life. And if there is any doubt as to whether global warming costs human lives, then you can consult the International Disaster Database, where it can be seen that the number of deaths caused by natural disasters has been rapidly increasing over recent decades, even if isolated to events caused by storms and floods. I am also surprised that the proposal extends beyond the scope of the directive, and perhaps beyond the scope of a global temperature increase of up to the 4 and 6 degrees by 2050, when, as we have also heard other rapporteurs point out, the UN climate panel has set up temperature scenarios for the middle of this century, where global temperature increases can be expected, yes, between approx. 1 and 2.3 degrees. These are indeed complex conditions we are dealing with, and the uncertainties are very great, I admit. Yet the very same climate panel has actually tried to estimate the total economic cost of global warming. And the analysis that has been carried out shows that the cost of a global warming corresponding to 11⁄2 degree increase is something similar to 0.5-1 per cent. global bnp. With a temperature increase of 2 degrees, the cost is approx. 1-2 per cent. global bnp, and at the horror scenario, the worst case scenario, namely an increase of 3.2 degrees, and it should be said in fact in this context that the analysis carried out by the UN climate panel is for 2070 • costs in 2070 will be approximately 2-3 per cent. global bnp. The analysis is also projected to higher temperatures if one should have an interest in botanising in it. Denmark's bnp is well known to me in the vicinity of 2,100 billion. kr., and then you can count on it yourself to get a clue as to what the cost is of these global warming scenarios. So, finally, just a figure for comparison, a figure • or a majority number • coming from the Stanford Global Energy Forum, which has made some estimates based on various international analyses on the so-called 80-percent EU-27 greenhouse gas reduction in 2050, i.e. if the EU overall reduces its greenhouse gas emissions by 80%. in 2050. And we all know that this is not the objective we are really aiming for, at least not in Denmark. There is, after all, a net zero emissions in 2050 which is the objective on which a united Parliament has been brought together. But the total cost of this 80-percent-EU-27 reduction will then be equal to that and there's a lot of uncertainty about this, and the analysis shows that between 1.4% and 1.0%. and up to 12%. EU-27 reduction. It's just to put the numbers in a little relief. But I shall tell you that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112123	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112139	Thank you for an excellent proposal from the Alternative, because our great challenge will be that it has consequences and that climate change will be felt. It is of course both in terms of rising water levels in Isefjord, and it is in terms of generally rising water levels on our islands. This is something that Lemvig has gradually experienced a few times, where they have had the sandbags out. But it also has consequences for the crops that our farmers will be able to grow. As the temperature rises, there will be certain crops, it will be difficult to grow in Denmark. It is thought-provoking that we have begun to grow wine in Denmark. This is because, on average, our temperature has already increased. So the consequences are noticeable. They are sneaking in just as slowly, and if we are to be well prepared both in the state and in the municipalities and so far, at least in the regions, now is the time to act. One cannot act without knowledge, which is why I think it is obvious to carry out risk assessments of how the consequences will be in the future. I actually sense that the alternative is open to discussion, namely whether it should be exactly 30 years or whether it could be 25 years. I do not see any closeness around it, and I think that is quite positive. Because if we, as politicians, do not exercise due diligence, we are really failing those citizens who are going to feel the consequences. So I'm open to the proposal. The only thing I'm left with is that I'm thinking that it might be smart that it's not the government that has to do these risk assessments, but that you let the Climate Council or another independent body, which could be a researcher who has expertise in the field, to make these assessments of what it's going to have with consequences in Denmark. And then we will have to discuss the concrete form. At any rate, the SF is open to the proposal and thinks it is a good idea to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112343	Thank you. There are no comments. The Conservatives are covered by the Left, so we are actually moving on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112401	Thank you, President. Although we have known for decades how bad things were and how urgent action was to be taken, we have not invested what is necessary in relation to the climate crisis we are now seeing. Quite often when we discuss this, we are told that it is very expensive that it has major economic consequences, what should it not mean for our economy and so on. etc.? This proposal is that we really start to keep things up against each other a little bit. How much does it cost to do a little, and how much does it cost to do a proper job? Then we can start looking at the figures and start looking at whether a climate fund of 80 billion. kr. is a lot, or whether it is a little. What are some investments that need to be made? We need to move on from wanting to do something to do enough. We can only do that if we keep getting more knowledge. There has been some discussion from various rapporteurs about this, about whether it is the right degrees that we have set on, that we should assess, and when we have done this, it is of course because we are looking at how to do it elsewhere. As the comments on the proposal state, we are leaning on the research from what is called the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research's Helix programme, which looks at 11⁄2, 2, 4 and 6 degrees. But if there are other models we have to do it on the basis of, it's really fine. It is actually to lean on the research that already exists out there. We are very open to discussing, as Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr said, a precise model of how this should be done. Putting it in a highly independent climate council would also be an opportunity. It is actually just that we move on, so we stop discussing whether something is too expensive, because the only thing that is too expensive is not to do anything and just let go of the green speeches. That is actually what we are trying to say today: let us now get an overview. We could see how the President of the United States almost got something wrong when he was presented with the risk scenarios, so much wrong in his throat that of course he then said it wasn't true and that it was all a lie. After all, nobody will do that at home if we have proper research that shows the consequences that will be, including economic ones, for our society. So I heard from certain parties at least openness to discuss it further and become wiser in committee, and there is nothing I love more than that we can learn more together in committee work. Now we have had the first reading, we have sketched out positions, and then I hope that we can start to look together to see if there are things here too those parties that very categorically said no to this thing that we think is interesting to investigate how we can do it, whether there is a knowledge, etc. So I look forward to a committee reading where, hopefully, we will move forward, because I believe that this is really, really crucial for the whole debate on climate action, namely that we have proper risk assessments. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112726	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112729	Thank you and thank you for your contribution. I think that in my own rapporteur's speech I forgot to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, and the alternative of having tabled this motion for a resolution. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur also has a great deal of focus here on the economic issue, that is to say, what it really costs, and that is a good approach. As a member of the Folketing of the Liberal Alliance, I like the fact that we are talking about what it really costs. Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I came up with some figures taken from the United Nations Climate Panel's assessments of what the negative global bnp consequences of this are. So we've already figured it out. Some analyses of this have already been made. It is, of course, very uncertain, but does the rapporteur from the alternative not recognise that there are already some estimates of the economic costs of global warming?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112832	Well, there are some figures for the global, but what we want is for us to go into it more and see what this means. How much does it cost for agriculture to make the conversion, which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also mentioned, for example. In relation to what crops should we cultivate? It's more about looking at the national, so look at what this is going to mean for us. For yes, there are estimates of the consequences of global temperature increases. We'd like to get these risk scenarios so we can see what the consequences are at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112859	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404112902	Thank you. I am sorry that I just forgot to press for my second brief comment here. It is very good that there are some figures for the costs of global warming. However, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, there are, in fact, also some estimates of the cost of the green conversion. Green conversion costs, and we should finally not try to make anyone think that it does not. It costs, and it probably costs more than doing nothing. That is something that needs to be taken into account. But that does not mean that we should not do anything, that we should not engage in the green transition, because that is what we must do. And that is precisely the point that somewhere lies in the motion for a resolution, so that we cannot really put a price on any of the consequences here. It may be that you can sit down and count on what it costs if we are to have a different rotation in agriculture due to global warming, climate change and other factors. That is one thing, but something else is precisely the further consequences here, and that is why I believe that it is far along the way something we only need to look at in long shoe lengths, and it has the UN climate panel and others, among other things. major universities, made analyses of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113001	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113005	I very much appreciate debating in this Chamber and having discussions about the climate. I've had a lot of them since we entered four years ago. I can just say that every time I make a proposal, the first thing I get back in my head is the question: what economic consequences will this have? There's just what I'm saying: now, on an enlightened basis, let's do these risk assessments. Then we can start holding things up against each other and say: yes, this costs something and this costs something. And then we can take action. What we are actually pointing out with this is that instead of constantly shooting everything down, because it costs too much to do the climate action that needs to be done, let us look at what the consequences are of not doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113043	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the resolution be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113108	The debate is open. Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113118	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the alternative to the proposal. I would like to start by stating that the government cannot support the proposal. I would like to highlight four main reasons why the government cannot support the proposal. Firstly, the proposal will undermine the financial basis for the green transition. If we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, it will require very large investments over the coming decades. Revenue from the North Sea contributes, inter alia, to: to enable these investments to be made possible. Until 2018, the North Sea contributed 439 billion. kr. in tax revenue. Assuming that the alternative proposal means that there will be no more tax revenue from the North Sea from 2030, it will be an expensive round. It is estimated that government revenue will be reduced by approx. 106 billion kr. from 2030 until 2046. It is income that can be invested in the green transition and Denmark's prosperity and welfare. In addition, significant claims must also be expected if we cancel and dismantle the permits that have already been granted. Secondly, the proposal will not have a real positive climate effect; at worst, it will actually have an opposite effect. In Denmark, an average of 0.14 million was produced in 2017. tdr. oil per unit of oil; day. In the same year, the world's total oil consumption was well over 98 million. tdr. oil per unit of oil; day. A Danish stop will therefore not have an effect on the global demand for oil. On the contrary, Denmark and others will have to import a larger proportion of their oil from other countries, which probably have a larger climate footprint in their oil production. The Times magazine in 2018 stated that Denmark is actually the number one global in relation to who has the lowest climate footprint in relation to oil production. Thirdly, the proposal will also damage Denmark's reputation as an attractive and credible investment target with predictable framework conditions for business. It will not just hit the oil and gas industry hard, it is to be expected to lead to significant claims in relation to existing permits. Fourthly, Denmark will fulfil its obligations under the Paris Agreement, even if we investigate and recover oil and gas. Oil and gas extraction is not contrary to the Paris Agreement. As I have said a number of times now, there is no contradiction between continued oil and gas extraction, the government's green ambitions and compliance with climate commitments. In the years to come, it is not a question of either or not. Denmark, like the rest of the world, will be dependent on oil and gas for a number of years to come. Instead, the government believes that we should focus on reducing dependence and the demand for fossil fuels. That's why we, among other things. has a goal that the last petrol and diesel car will be sold by 2030. To conclude, this proposal will have major consequences, while it is difficult to see the real benefits for the climate and the green transition. The alternative believes that there is a need for a powerful signal to the outside world. I believe that this is a very expensive and ineffective signal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113450	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative, has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113454	Thank you. If you read Danmarks Statistik's inventory of the possibilities in the North Sea, the known reserves run out around 2033-35, and I think it might have been some of the things that got the oil and gas industry in Denmark to go to the government, to the politicians, here a few years ago, and say: Can we not get a tax rebate, because there may not be such a good business in it anymore, but if we get a little more money to do good with, you could postpone this with dismantling the extraction in the North Sea? I think it is very worrying that we now have an agreement that goes as far ahead as it does, because climate research is precisely saying that we have to let 80%. Stay in the ground, which means we can only pull 20%. of the known reserves up. So I just want to hear the Minister: what agreements does the Minister have with other countries that they will stop their extraction more quickly if we are to be allowed to pull up more than our 20% share?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113609	Thank you for the question. I know we have no other agreements with other countries. After all, it is the individual country itself that decides whether or not to continue oil and gas production. That is also the case with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113624	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113630	Thank you. I am surprised, then, because what lies on the basis of the Paris Agreement is not so directly, because that is how the Paris Agreement is screwed up, but indirectly, we have to stop the temperature increases by 11⁄2 or max. Two degrees. And that means we don't have to deduce any more CO2 so you also have to have the climate gases dug up to burn them off, which means that there is a direct connection between how many climate gases are emitted and how much oil, gas and coal from the underground we are pulling up. So I want to say again: we have to stop at 20%. of the known reserves. If Denmark wants to pull more than 20%. I would like to know what agreements are there with other countries that they are pulling less than their 20%. Up?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113715	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113719	We don't have any deals. And it is with the Paris Agreement that, as the questioner also says, there is no prohibition on continuing with oil and gas extraction. I prioritize and the government gives priority to continuing the green transition; that we increasingly make ourselves independent of fossil energy, including oil. We think this is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113744	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113750	Is it not true that when you make an agreement like the Paris Agreement, there are also some consequences after which you have to say: if we are going to live up to this, we have to do this and that? And is it not true that there has been consensus among many scientists about this, that it is about not using all the fossil energy we have in the underground and everything we could imagine there is, but leaving it behind and instead switching to renewable energy? That's one. The second thing I would like to hear about is these figures mentioned by the Minister. There was a very, very high figure of over 100 billion. kr. From 2030 to 2046 and I would just like to confirm which oil price scenarios are then used there is such a Paris agreement compatible oil price scenario, or are we back to the old oil price scenarios where the world does not live up to the agreement we have reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113844	First of all, it is important to stress that we are, of course, living up to the Paris Agreement. We do, we do, we do, a majority in the Folketing, we do so with the series of initiatives that we have taken and which will be taken. Then it's true, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist mentions that there are researchers who point out that in terms of being able to deliver on the Paris agreement and deliver on the 11⁄2 degree objective, some of the oil and gas resources need to be left underground; that is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113913	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113915	Then I will be back with the money, because I did not quite understand the figures used by the Minister. I would like to hear what an oil price scenario the Minister is using when he mentions these over 100 billion. kr. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. Is this an oil price scenario compatible with the Paris Agreement or with the UN Sustainable Development Goals? After all, this is a discussion we have had often in this Parliament. So I would really like to hear: what exactly is the oil price scenario that the Minister is leaning on here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404113944	This is the trend in oil and gas prices that we always use when we make these projections. I have to offer to forward to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, what exactly is the basis from which it is calculated. I think I can remember that it is in fact the IEA's projections of oil prices that are at issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114002	Then we thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114011	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the alternative of today's debate. After all, it is extremely important to discuss what we can do to live up to the Paris Agreement. It is also extremely important to discuss what we can do to reduce global fossil fuel consumption. It is also really important to discuss what we can do to reduce Denmark's consumption of fossil fuels. We have proposed that we bring forward the time when Denmark should be free from fossil fuels, and we have done so, because we would like to emphasise that there is a need for faster and more ambitious action in relation to the climate. One might say: In this way, Denmark should also engage in the fight to make our oil and gas business a worse and worse business, understood in the sense that we actually have to fight to have such high reduction requirements on consumption and so high reduction requirements on CO2 and we have to take the lead I have already said we want to advance the time when we have to be free from the black fuels. But as long as we consume oil and gas in Denmark, it simply does not make any sense to say that it is better to buy it abroad than to produce it yourself. And this is primarily because we actually have a production of oil and gas, which is more CO2 It could be Norway. Just in Norway it would increase CO2 so it would be a bad idea seen with the climate glasses on. But it is also clear, and the Minister has mentioned this, that it also has an economic consequence. And our view is that it is wise for us to draw oil out of the North Sea for climate reasons and economic reasons, so of course we must also invest part of the money we get into our green conversion. That is why we proposed raising taxation at some point a few years ago and investing the money in the Train Fund DK so that we could get the trains electrified and make our public transport both better and more climate-friendly. Of course, it is also a demand for us to take advantage of the oil resources we have, as long as we have them, to put turbos on the green switch. Finally, it is also clear that this proposal put forward by the Alternative would violate the North Sea Agreement concluded by the Social Democratic Party and, of course, we do not intend to vote in favour of it. However, I am pleased to have a debate on what we can do to actually reduce the consumption of oil and gas. I would also be pleased to discuss how we actually distribute, if we may say so, the oil and gas that we produce over the next few years and what we need it for. But moving production to other countries where they emit more CO2 does not make sense from a climate perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114322	There are a few questions. The first is from sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114328	Thank you. Now the rapporteur knows that I am a bit of a geek, and I have been looking at the production data and other data on the Danish Energy Agency's website about our oil and gas production in the North Sea. After all, it peaked there in 2004 or 2005, and today we are down to something that is one third of what is produced. And the projection from Danmarks Statistik says that in 2033 there may be no more to pick up. Then it happened that the oil industry came crawling and said: we can't move on unless we get a little extra help. These tax rebates were then made in the North Sea Agreement, and it almost goes as far as 2050. And there I am really worried, because there we are going to pull up much more than what are the known reserves today. And what climate science says is that we only have to pick up one fifth of the known reserves. So how can the rapporteur's party help to pull up so much more than climate science says we should?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114435	There are countries in the world that do not have oil and gas resources. There are countries in the world that have incredibly large oil and gas resources. And when sir... Christian Poll refers to climate science and the fact that you have to leave the known reserves in the ground. So you only have to take up one fifth. That's right, that's what climate science says. But it is not really a question of which countries we know them in, so there will be oil and gas reserves that we know today and that we should not pull up. It can be said that if we in Denmark continue the consumption we have today we propose to bring forward the time when we get rid of the black fuels but shut down our own production faster, then we have to buy it on the world market. And the fact that you buy your oil and gas somewhere else does not mean a reduction in relation to the climate. We can easily discuss what we can do to advance the phasing out of our fossil fuel consumption and how we can tighten up the international agreements so that less oil and gas are bought, but it simply does not make sense to say that we will not extract the own consumption we have for a significant number of years yet, both because it will be bad in terms of climate, but also because it will have consequences in relation to the fact that we cannot invest so much in the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114555	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114600	Thank you. Now it is the case that, first of all, we are reducing our consumption of oil and gas, and that is the core of it all, and of course we need to have that sort of thing going hand in hand with the second development. Secondly, it is also true that it is a myth that we are self-employed. In other words, we import and export oil products back and forth. We import a great deal of petrol and diesel, and we export fuel oil, etc. After all, it is a free, open market and it is not self-sufficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114632	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114636	No, but it is a case of the alternative claiming that it would be a climate gain if production were shut down in Denmark, but that the same thing was still consumed in Europe, or in the world. And there's just what I'm saying is that it's not right if that production is just going on somewhere else. Then, in addition to the fact that it would actually increase emissions of climate gases, because it is less climate-friendly to extract in many of the countries that we otherwise trade with, it would also mean that we had less money to invest in the green transition and thus to show the way that more of the world countries have to go in the coming years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114709	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114713	I am a little curious about the fact that the rapporteur agrees that we should leave known resources in the underground, just not right here. Who, then, should leave their resources underground? If we're going to charge 80%. of the known resources stay in the underground and don't chase more adventures on oil and gas, who should stop if it isn't Denmark? If we're not in that part, then who is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114742	With all due respect, I would like to say that there are well-known oil resources in some of the oil-producing countries with extremely large resources, which, of course, we must not. What is the agreement with those countries which have no resources and which do not have oil and gas production? If they have then handed in their permission to Saudi Arabia so that they could produce a little more than their 20%.? This system, which the alternative would like to establish, where each country has a quota, does not exist. It is true that we should not pull up all the oil and gas resources we have at global level, because that would, of course, not be possible. It is also true that we need to reduce the consumption of oil and gas, and that is why I am saying that it is quite in the spirit of socialist policy that we are pushing for such high ambitions at global level, so that investing in oil and gas will be a worse business in the future, because we must not, after all, divide up which countries must use all their resources or part of their resources, and what about those countries that have no resources? What are they supposed to do? They need some money from those who produce more than their 20%.? The system does not exist, but the system that exists is what has been agreed in the Paris Agreement, namely that we have to reduce CO2 that is good, because that is the way we reduce global CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114915	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114919	Does the rapporteur think that it is only the demand that we score, and not the supply too, and that we should not stop at any time, but just run away, including with these new rounds that have been given, which are going 40 years into the future? Are we just gonna keep sucking everything out of the Danish underground forever? What does the rapporteur mean by this? Is this serious? The 80%. of the known resources do not lie in those countries where there are no resources, because there is a figure of 0. It's of the known resources we have to charge 80%. Stay in the subway. But that does not apply to Denmark, I understand, but it applies to all the other countries. When are we going to stop this in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404114957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115000	No, of course we will have to stop the extraction in Denmark. What I am saying is that if you want to influence the oil market in the world, you have to do so by reducing demand. That's the effective way. If one reduces supply in one country, then it moves production to another country, and if that country emits more CO2 That is why I think that there is an excellent parity between the fact that in Denmark we reduce our own consumption of fossil fuels and that we live up to the agreements we have made about extraction and, moreover, invest the money in getting turbo on the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115037	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. We'll move on, and the next one's mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115046	Thank you, President. After all, in Denmark we have a broad political ambition to phase out fossil fuels in Denmark and replace them with renewable energy. It is an ambition that all parties here in the Danish Parliament support, including the Danish People's Party. However, despite our ambition, it is not realistic that we should stop using fossil fuels, including oil and gas, in the next 10 years. So even if the alternative suggests here that we should stop producing oil and gas in Denmark, then we need oil and gas for longer than the 10 years that are seen here. This would mean that, if the alternative proposal were to be implemented, we would have to do so much more than today, with a 100% share and coverage of our consumption. That is a political choice, that is, whether we should produce our own oil and gas or whether we should buy it from other countries. As the previous rapporteur has already said, Danish oil and gas production contributes precisely to providing revenue to the Treasury, which is spent on investments in green conversion, but it is also used to finance our welfare societies. And then you can choose, as the alternative suggests, that you no longer want the source of income and that the money we spend on oil and gas is money sent to Norway, to Russia, to Saudi Arabia or Qatar, where you then fill up the treasury there instead. Surely it is possible that they can find sensible things to spend money on there. I do not know whether it is more fun that Danish crowns for which we buy oil and gas are spent arming the Russian military or spreading Islamism from Saudi Arabia, i.e. whether that is what the alternative thinks is better than financing Danish welfare through a Danish production of oil and gas. So I have to say that we in the Danish People's Party think this is a bad proposal from the Alternative, and that is why we say no to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115258	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115304	Thank you. Now it is the case that if we are to reduce the global climate load, we have to turn down the burning of fossil energy. It is, in fact, very logical that we should also extract less fossil energy, and it is there that scientists have told us that if we are to stay within what ends up being 11⁄2-2 degrees of temperature increase, we should actually charge 80%. of the known reserves today remain underground. This means that we can draw 20 per cent. So up, one fifth of what we know, we can pull up. Why should this not apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115349	We must do this in such a way that we phase out fossil fuels whenever possible. I do not believe that it is possible to stop using oil and gas in Denmark within 10 years, and that is why we need to get that oil and gas from somewhere. And if we don't produce it ourselves, we have to buy it somewhere else. That's as short as it can be said. Should it be produced in Denmark or should it be produced in Saudi Arabia? And will the money, for which the Danes buy oil and gas, end up in the Danish Treasury or in the Saudi Treasury? That is what the election is between the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party's election is clear. I can then hear that the alternative has a different view of it, and one must then explain why the money should end up in Saudi Arabia instead of in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115431	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115435	Now it is the case that there is a world market for petroleum products, and we have been importing and exporting petroleum products in this way over the years. We are now exporting more than half of the oil from the North Sea; on the other hand, we are importing 6 million. m3 crude oil per year. We get it both from Norway and from Russia, and we export among other things. Sweden. So we're dealing with an open market. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115507	Yes, we have an open market, but we have still been a net producer for many years, that is. That we have produced more than we consumed. That balance may be tipping over now, and it will probably do so for a long time to come. But if you do, as the alternative suggests, Denmark becomes a hundred percent importer and nothing else and then the money just disappears out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115526	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. The next one is sir. Thomas Danielsen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115537	Thank you for that, President. Time is advanced and we are about to take a break here today, but a great deal has already been said in this area. In any case, I can make it clear that, of course, the Left will not vote for the alternative resolution, which will have negative climate consequences. It goes without saying that, in our efforts to ensure a greener Denmark and a greener world, we should not, of course, adopt resolutions such as this, where we will emit more climate gases if we implement it. It is the case that Denmark is the country in the world that has the lowest climate gas emissions in our oil extraction. It would, of course, be to burden the climate if, for example, we were to do so. Alternatively, choose to import it from Norway. Specifically, in 2018, we have pumped 6.6 million. m3 up from our underground, and it has had a load of 794,000 tonnes of CO2 we compare with Norway, and if we are to buy exactly the same amount of oil, we actually double the world's climate load. It is possible that we live up to the alternative's wish that we in Denmark get a nicer climate accounting, but we are simply exporting our climate challenges, by the same production burden with 1,355.943 tonnes of CO2 That is to say, we would be in the process of expanding our CO2 purchased from Norway to double if we followed the alternative's motion for a resolution. And, of course, in our efforts to ensure a greener world and a greener Denmark, we do not welcome the negative developments from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115734	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115737	Thank you. After all, there is an error in the rapporteur's speech, namely that we are talking about a change from today to tomorrow. What we are proposing here is that we make a plan and, over a ten-year period, complete the activities that are in the North Sea. And that's because climate science says that's what we should do if we're to stay within one-and-a-half-two-degree temperature increase. But I'd really like to get to grips with this with how the market works. As I understand it, the oil and gas industry approached the government a few years ago and said: now it looks as if this market in the North Sea is not really worth it any more. Can we get a little extra tax discount? Then we'll play with a few more years. In this way, an agreement has been cemented which extends almost to 2050, perhaps even further, where companies are allowed to extract oil and gas from the North Sea. And it will be with an increasing environmental impact, with more and more costs per year. barrel of oil, a worse and worse business. So this isn't something we should get settled in a hurry anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115849	The plan is quite clear and it is that we must make ourselves independent of oil and gas. We must displace what we need to make technologies that can make biofuels from which we can then make follow-up products, that is. plastic bags and other materials. We must do this in such a way as to ensure that the green initiatives, i.e. wind power and other technologies, can outperform oil and gas. And then we should not forget that gas is an important instrument, both to secure more biogas into our infrastructure, but also to crowd out coal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115930	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404115933	I'm glad to hear that. So the point is that the rapporteur actually believes that green technologies should be introduced and replaced by black technologies, and I can then reassure everyone that we are actually quite a long way off. Now it's the green technologies that are becoming the cheapest on almost all fronts, which means we're not actually gonna need this black energy. We don't have much time to go forward until there's no real need for this. So will it not go very well with phasing out extraction, so that we can live up to what climate science says we should?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120011	In many areas, we are very far from crowding out black technologies with renewable energy. I am, of course, very pleased, and it is only thanks to the massive investments we have made across the parties of the Folketing over the last many, many years. However, we must not forget that petroleum products are being used for a large number of other things than for example. heating. It is also used for lubricants, and it is part of the production of many other materials. So at this stage it has longer prospects to become independent of petroleum products.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120045	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120049	I would then like to hear from the rapporteur, at such a rather fundamental level, whether we should continue the search for oil and gas after we are free of fossil energy. So, are we going to keep chasing oil and gas, even if we are creating a fossil-free society in Denmark? Should we continue with what we are doing in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120109	Now Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist just outside when I answered that question, but my point is that no, we must crowd out oil and gas with renewable technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120122	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120125	I can reassure the rapporteur that I listened with shame. There are ways to listen without standing right here. But once again, when we displace it, should we continue to hunt for oil and gas in the North Sea? Should we continue production when we have displaced it in Denmark? So should we continue? In principle, do you think that we should just keep going because we can then export it because we are so much better, or what is usually said?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120149	We in the government have a long-term goal of being independent of fossil fuels by 2050, and that is the government's overall long-term objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120203	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120206	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and answers to questions. I believe that everyone in the Chamber agrees with the rapporteur on the need to displace. I also believe that everyone agrees that we must reduce demand and that it may have to come in that order. But then I am just surprised that the reduction in demand does not harmonize, I think, with the way in which the government chooses to do so by abolishing the solar system, by not exempting electric cars from taxes, by not ensuring that the taxes on petrol and diesel actually follow a curve that is thus helping to crowd out demand. So how is it that the Danish Liberal Party will make sure that this displacement happens and demand is actually reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120300	Now I'm just trying to avoid being polemical, so I think I'm trying to rephrase what I was actually about to answer. That is how I can tell the questioner that we have had a Left Government for 14 out of the last 18 years. We have taken quantum leaps forward, we have made the broadest energy agreement in Danish history, in which the questioner's own party is also part of. As the first government we have ever launched a real climate strategy for Denmark. It shows how we deliver on our climate commitments by 2030, i.e. Twelve years before we have to deliver on our climate commitments; it has never happened before in the history of Denmark that a government has done so. In addition, we say that we should not just go to the goal, but that we should do more than go to the goal. So I actually believe that we are very much in agreement on the direction for Denmark. There is probably almost only one difference between the policy of the Alternative and that of the Left in this area, and that is that we do not make symbolic policy, that we do not just come up with fluffy objectives; we put action behind words, and, most importantly, we fund the actions that we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120412	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, who gets the last brief remark before the break.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120416	Thank you. And thank you for the answer that I do not quite know about avoiding being polemical, but I do not think I was given an answer to my question. So does the rapporteur himself believe that the changeover will take place quickly enough to ensure that we reach the goal of the Paris agreement; which will ensure that we do not have costs that are incalculable? Does the rapporteur think that the pace we have today and the plan put forward by the government help?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120448	No, I'm completely in line with the government. The measures we have taken so far are not enough if we are to achieve our objectives. Our ambitions are higher, so if we did the idea that the rapporteur apparently wants us to do that we did not take any more initiatives from now on towards 2030, the answer is: No, we did not take enough initiatives at all. It must be followed by a large number of initiatives. So I am completely in line with the government in that the climate plan that has been presented must ensure that we achieve our commitments in the European Union, but that more initiatives need to be taken than that, because we need more than just a goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404120526	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I hereby suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13.00, where we start again with Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130002	The sitting is resumed. Mr President, we have reached the rapporteur's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130027	Thank you. It is a day of joy today, because we have adopted a legislative proposal, L 179, which puts an end to the oil and gas objections on land and inland waters, and so we have listened to the shale gas opponents who said that we should not move into that. It is, in fact, positive that we have taken that step. Sometimes it is said that Denmark is a pioneering country in the green area, and it is quite true that in the wind turbine sector, both in terms of the wind turbines we have set up ourselves and what we export and what potential there is for the future, we are really well running. If we look at what we can do in the district heating area, we can also do a lot, and when we look at what we can do in the overall energy solutions, we are really good. But that is not enough to make us a green forerunner. If you look at what climate footprints we put in Denmark, then we import soy from an area similar to Sjælland and Falster. If we look at what we have from imports of biomass, then it corresponds to an area the size of Zealand and Funen, so we do not have a sustainable heat supply. Then there are also all the waste imports, lots of plastic that we import and burn off in order to keep warm in winter. Then we have the huge imports of goods from China, which also do not count in official statistics when we talk CO2 Then we have our flight consumption, which is approx. 1 tonne CO2 Dane, a total of 5 million. t as the year. And then we have our oil and gas production, which is, of course, planned to continue. Thank you to the alternative for tabling this motion for a resolution. It helps to make it clear that we have a problem if we just let oil and gas production continue in Denmark. The proposal here is then a proposal which requires the government to draw up a plan for the dismantling of hydrocarbon production in the North Sea over a period of 10 years. We would like to support the proposal, but we would also like to know what it means. Because the great dilemma here is that if it were to be carried out very quickly, there would be huge claims on the part of the companies that have been allowed to extract oil and gas. We in the Enhedslisten do not want to give many billions to multinational companies that have acquired the right to import oil and gas into the sea outside Denmark. This is the great dilemma here, and the dilemma becomes even greater when you look at what agreements have been made on the North Sea, which a majority including the Social Democrats and the SF have concluded, and which means that you will get some major compensation cases if you intervene against oil and gas production. We should have made some wise agreements that made it easier to withdraw from them again so that we could reduce the extraction of oil and gas. Why is this so important? It is, of course, because if you look at what are known oil, coal and gas deposits in the world, it may be only 20-25 per cent. the fossil deposits that we can afford to use worldwide. The rest must remain underground so that we can live up to the one-and-a-half-degree target and come to the conclusion that we do not destroy the climate on the planet. So if you just continue this course in Denmark with that we extract as much oil and gas as possible into the Danish territory, then we are thus contributing to the climate problems. That's the big dilemma. And we will also continue to contribute to climate problems if it is the case that we continue the way of life that we have in Denmark. That is why we need to look at the various sectors and say: what is the change that can be made? It has to be said that with the agreements on the North Sea, the majority of the Folketing has made it extremely difficult to find good solutions where it is possible to withdraw from that production as soon as possible. Then we are in the situation of imagining that we are going where renewable energy is so cheap that it is not worth bringing oil and gas out of the underground. This is actually the scenario that it is just before is the most likely if the best actions were to happen. And have we reached that point? Well, we have seen electric cars with the potential to be a cheaper mode of transport than driving in a car that drives on diesel. So it is such an unfortunate situation that we have ended up in, and I think it would be quite good to count on the alternative proposal and to get figures on how many billions this proposal costs. So, in those words, the Enhedslisten can support the creation of a plan for the dismantling of hydrocarbon production in the North Sea and, of course, we will see the figures for the economy before deciding whether or not we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130529	It was just a second away, and there is one brief comment from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130534	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Enhedslisten that we can stand together in this matter. After all, we are the two parties that are not part of this North Sea agreement, which extends the extraction of oil and gas until almost 2050. I have just asked the climate minister in the form of question 230, and I have been given some sort of loose answers as to what it will cost if there are claims for damages and that we can expect these claims for this agreement that has been made. And it's a lot solved, so it's not possible for us to put a number on this. And, as the rapporteur himself points out, price developments in oil, gas and renewable technologies over the next 10 to 20 years will have an enormous impact on the amount of energy we expect this to be about. But I actually have a question about this: if you just want to stop new agreements, then you still have very long contractual arrangements. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130648	In other words, we are going to criticise the parties that have concluded the long agreements. This is the right time to do so when we are in the middle of a parliamentary election campaign, just like pointing out that there are some parties outside saying that they are very green, and then they have been part of North Sea agreements that cement that oil and gas production in Danish waters can continue, despite the fact that we have some climate problems. But we don't have the solution. Well, I can best see the solution if we come to the conclusion that renewable energy becomes so cheap and electric cars become so efficient in relation to a diesel car that it is not worth picking up oil and gas to burn it off, but that oil becomes such an exclusive commodity that can be used to make quality plastic in the future. If we get there, it's enough to live with getting a little oil to make that product. But we do not just have the solution to what others have done wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130743	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130745	Thank you for that answer. That is reassuring, and that is how I actually think about it, i.e. it is necessary to wait for it to develop. The Enhedslisten also writes a little about how you might be able to make some exchange agreements, and I'm a little curious about them, i.e. whether you can exchange permissions for oil and gas for some kind of permit for sea winds. And as I understand that type of contract, it's something that needs to be put out to tender. I don't suppose you can make such direct trade, or do you have things in mind that could be creative here? Because then it's very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130819	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130820	In the Enhedslisten climate plan we have outlined that in the future there may be an income from the North Sea when it is the case that wind turbines and their establishment have become so cheap that there will be actors who would like to pay in order to be allowed to exploit a field in the sea, and that could then give an extra income. And we can think of many things that such an extra income could go to. We certainly need some revenue to manage sustainable development, what to say, and to have some funds for it. We would rather spend it on that than spend it on damages. However, we may well find ourselves in a situation where we have to conclude agreements on compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130902	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. And then we're in line to sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404130910	Thank you for that, President. Let me start by saying that it is fantastic for a liberal parliamentary politician whom I am overhearing, one might say, an exchange of words between the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on the platform and then the proposer of the alternative on the commercial, market-based development of the green transition in Denmark, especially with regard to the North Sea. I really appreciate that. So thank you for that. The motion for a resolution here, B 85, concerns a plan for the dismantling of hydrocarbon production in the North Sea in particular over a period of 10 years. And I know that it may sound rather paradoxical when I say as I do. But Danish oil production is actually the most climate friendly in the world. Obviously, the dismantling will not affect global consumption at all, at least not to a significant extent. But that would lead, rather than to a large extent, to increased imports of oil and gas into Denmark. Perhaps even imports from Russia, on which we certainly do not want to depend for security reasons. The revenue from the North Sea, as we have heard earlier in today's debate, runs into something similar to 439 billion. kr. up to and including the year 2018, and I know they are estimated to amount to 106 billion. kr. in the period from 2030 to 2046 which will then be the real period here, because the winding-up, as proposed by the proposers, is to take place over a 10-year period. This revenue from the North Sea actually contributes to the green transition. All of the Danish Parliament's parties have also noted this in connection with the 2018 Energy Agreement, and all of the Danish Parliament's parties are included in it, both the proposers of the Alternative and the Enhedslisten. And you can ask yourself that question, since we can see that revenue from the North Sea actually helps to finance the green switch to how the 106 billion. kr. then have to come forward, instead of asking how the green transition after 2030 should be funded. And qua the debate earlier in the Parliamentary Chamber today, the green transition actually costs something. I myself was able to deliver in some percent of what green conversion would cost as a percentage of the global bnp. The objective of net zero emissions in 2050, which we also have from the Energy Agreement, which has been concluded between all parties in the Folketing, means that we must have a balance in climate accounting. This does not mean that we should not emit greenhouse gases after 2050. In order to achieve that balance in climate accounting, we must ultimately also be able to absorb and store CO2 and that is probably not really possible, at least not so cost-effectively at the moment, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance, with our brand new climate plan and economic 2030 plan, want to allocate 3.7 billion. kr. extra per year to research in e.g. capture and storage of CO2 That must be the way forward. Furthermore, it should also be pointed out here that emissions from the production of oil and gas in the North Sea are now subject to the EU's quota trading system, and that is why it is regulated in this way. All in all, this leads me to say that the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131329	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131334	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I have the impression that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are very concerned about the free market forces, and that is why I am somewhat puzzled. The oil and gas industry went begging a few years ago and said something like: Now this is not really worthwhile, but if we can get some extra tax rebates, we will continue a few years into the future. The Liberal Alliance agreed to give them these tax rebates for something that is, in fact, a sunset technology that should be phased out. That's what puzzles me, too, because it's kind of a myth that Denmark is self-sufficient in this context. After all, this is a free market in this area where we import some things and export other things that I have mentioned in a question to a rapporteur earlier in this debate. That is something we export and import. What is the rapporteur thinking about this agreement? How will oil and gas production be phased out in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131449	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131451	In fact, it seems rather bizarre to me that the rapporteur of the alternative, Mr. Christian Poll, cannot understand that the Liberal Alliance is part of agreements where tax rebates are given. I have to say that it seems to me a little bit bizarre. But the alternative would, of course, like to see politics in a slightly different way than all of us, and it must be an expression of that. With regard to the question of the free market and whether we import or export and what we do and that there is a free flow of hydrocarbon products back and forth, I would like to say that I believe that most of the Danish consumption of supply actually originates from production from the North Sea. But it is true that we are importing something. We are importing from the European Union, I think it has been mentioned earlier in today's debate, both Norway and Russia, and, as I mentioned myself in my speech, we certainly have no interest in making ourselves more dependent on Russia than we already are. In addition, I also believe that a country such as Nigeria is a place from which we actually import petroleum products, and I do not know whether it is better to increase imports of petroleum products from Nigeria than it is to admit them to the North Sea itself. It is a rhetorical question and I do not think I will answer it, other than that I will assume that if you are in the Chamber you will be able to understand what I mean. What the alternative means, I shouldn't be able to make myself smart.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131627	Then there is no real time to answer that question. Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Christian Poll has the floor again, and it is the case that you actually have half as long time on the second question as you have on the first question. Here you go, sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131639	Thank you. By tax rebate, I mean it's kind of a subsidy. You give the sector a subsidy to be able to produce by giving this tax rebate that's what's in it. It is true that we have this trade with the whole world and import and export. That is what applies to the market as it is now. I am just thinking: what is the rapporteur's plan for phasing out, so that we only get 20%. of the known reserves up and not 100 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131718	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131720	Again, there is a great difference between the views of the Alternative and the Liberal Alliance on Danish politics. I understand that the alternative believes that if we provide tax relief to the Danes and Danish companies, it should be regarded as a subsidy. I just have to say that I very, very disagree with the alternative. It seems to me that taxes are paid by some money which you have earned yourself, whether as a company or as a person, and which you then pay a certain amount of to the state. This is not a subsidy model here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131756	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404131803	Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time; it is the biggest crisis we face and we have a responsibility for future generations to make the right decisions. And when you know that the problem is coal and oil and gas, you might want to think that the right way to go is for Denmark to stop extracting oil. I quite understand the desire and the position that can be taken in this direction. What is difficult in politics is that there is always the reverse of one's decisions, and one must always compensate for the advantages and disadvantages of a decision. And it is always so nice, when you make a proposal, to talk a lot about the benefits, but perhaps you talk a little too little about the disadvantages. Because if Denmark chooses to do what the alternative is now proposing, what is happening? Firstly, the world will get more CO2 t CO2 Second, there is a shortage of 106 bn. kr. According to the Danish Tax Office. It's so much money for this country that we just lack an explanation from the alternative of where that money tree stands. Where is it that the money is to be found for the green transition? But you can also think and ask: if we now have 106 billion. kr. 2 kroner. Is it best to invest in the green conversion that could destroy the oil market? Because why was it that coal broke its neck? Was it because somebody stopped pulling coal out of the ground? No, it was because wind turbines and solar cells were cheaper than coal. That's what broke the neck of coal. Then how can we manage to break the neck of oil? Well, we can do that by changing the demand. We can do that by turning our car park into electric cars. We can do this by getting out of the dependence our society has on oil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132012	Wait a minute. Sir. Christian Juhl actually stands in the way of eye contact when you have a dialogue between the questioner and the speaker, and I would just point out that I can look at the person concerned asking that it is rather annoying not being able to get in touch with Mrs Ida Auken, and that is a pity. So thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Please continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132033	Thank you very much. It's always nice to have eye contact. So, even if we understand the intention, we do not mean that it is either more green or less green than the other parties, that it is the right way to go down right now, and that it will be extremely expensive to get out of the agreements that have been made, and that there will be a huge amount of money missing from the Treasury, which is currently financing the green transition, and there will be more CO2 so what is the right way to go? That's getting the demand changed. In fact, I do not believe that new concessions will be needed after 2046 because there we have broken our necks on the oil. I simply believe that this discussion is almost irrelevant, as the Enhedslisten rapporteur also says. Then we shouldn't try to concentrate in here at Christiansborg on what moves things out in the real world instead of standing in somebody else I was going to say measuring competition about who can come up with the most suggestions that work well. We have an energy agreement circle where we can take these discussions. So shouldn't we do the thing where we can move things, instead of just before an election to stand and say that you are much, much better than all the others? So we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132144	It gave rise to a question from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132146	Yeah, surprising, isn't it? With regard to the financing of the green conversion, do we agree that the money coming in from the North Sea is going into the big financial bill, so of course there is some money that can be used for it and some money that can be used for something else? For us, it is very unnatural to finance the green transition with black energy. That's where there's a connection. And this is not an option at all, this is an old proposal that we have had for years and that we have been working on for a long, long time. What worries me is that there are so many here in the Danish Parliament, including the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party, who, like this, do not respect the fact that researchers say that we should let 80%. be the ground. That is why I started by asking the Minister whether there are agreements with other countries that if we are to pull more than 20%. up, then the others must stop earlier and download less than 20%. Up. We don't want to make the change right away. It's a 10-year settlement. By then, there will be much more power in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132256	We fully respect the science's bid that 80%. Stay in the ground. We just don't agree with the alternative of how to make it the earth. We do not believe that the small part that Denmark is picking up is what determines whether Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and other countries continue to pull up the oil. The only way to get the 80%. to remain in the ground, and the rapporteur knows that too, is breaking the neck of the market, as we have done with coal. It is simply making a cheaper and better alternative. That is why we need to bring in electric cars and that is why we simply need to reduce demand. And that's where we think 106 billion. kr. would be better spent on increasing demand than on doing something that has a symbolic political significance. One could say that if we could go out into the world with that decision and negotiate with the others and convince them to leave it down there, I would be willing to discuss it, because then we could really move something. But I do not think Denmark can do that with that decision. I think we can break the neck of the market like we have with the windmills.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132353	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132354	That is exactly what we are doing with the energy agreement as a minimum foundation on which we can build, so that we can reduce all our emissions of climate gases. I fully agree with that. For us, it's just important that you do the other thing too. For the oil and gas and the coal you pump and dig up are burned off. If we are not to take the lead in that area too, who will take the lead? I don't see a lot of other people. However, some countries are actually looking at it. So that's relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132433	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132434	What is relevant is how best to spend 106 billion. kr., if you want to do something good for the climate and the world and the environment. The alternative has not come up with a single estimate of where that money will be found. Not a single bid has been made. That's 106 billion. kr.! I do not know whether you are even aware of the amount of money involved. That is why I think it is the alternative that owes a bid today on how to break the neck of that market if we cannot invest in electric cars if we cannot invest in the green transition. I think that is what we lack an answer to, rather than this competition, where we should be told that we are wrong because we think there are wiser ways to go than the one proposed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132512	Maybe it's coming now. It's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, who has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132515	I simply do not understand the rapporteur's concern that we are putting forward a proposal which we have been advocating for a very long time. I really think that is a rather awkward approach to it. I'd like to ask you about this 106 billion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The Minister also mentioned them earlier. That's 106 billion. kr. From 2030 to 2046, he said. Then I would just like to know what kind of an oil price scenario this is. We really believe that this is 106 billion. kr. From 2030 to 2046? Or is it only if we do not achieve the Paris agreement? And so it is an oil price scenario that is completely out of line with the reality we should be in. So how does the rapporteur feel about this being an old oil price scenario used by the Ministry for the 106 billion? kr. and that it is considerably lower if you use an oil price scenario that is compatible with the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132602	I am sorry, though, if the questioner is at risk, that the party has a chairman who must boast today in Altingen that the rest of us do not mean the right thing if it is that we do not mean the same thing as the alternative. It is simply not good for the political debate in here, and it is not a new political culture that you go out and say that the others are not as green as we are because they want to go another way. To the rapporteur's question, if it turns out that oil prices are falling as much as the rapporteur says, there is absolutely no need to have this discussion, because then Denmark will not be the country that is going to draw up this oil and then you will have to drop it. So this question falls back on the rapporteur himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132638	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132639	No, it means that if we follow an oil price scenario that is compatible with the Paris Agreement, with the UN's global objective, there will only be a lot less money in it; we will still pump out the oil, but because of the agreements made by a majority of parties, we will only get less money in it. So the big problem that the rapporteur thinks we have is suddenly very, very small. So I really think it would be worth addressing the oil price scenarios that we have discussed in this Chamber a number of times, rather than just throwing ourselves around with figures in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132707	I understand that the alternative has given their own offer of how much it is, and there we are well over 50 billion. kr. And it's not a big deal, it's not just a small amount. And I just have to say that there is no money tree, and if you want the green switch, you have to do what works. And it is true that I am a little bit angry, but it is because there is symbolism policy in it, instead of asking: what can we do here in Denmark to really change things? And there I think you're wrong about this symbol policy, where you have to stand and say that the rest of us are wrong about it, instead of saying what we can do together in the energy circle agreement. We could have had a sensible talk at the table to which the alternative had also been invited, about the energy agreement and whether we should consider saying that we do not grant any concessions after 2046, which is where we have given them. We would have been able to do that if it had been done in a proper way and in a respectful way in the conciliation circle there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132759	We therefore thank Mrs Ida Auken and pass the baton on to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404132807	Thank you, President. The great ambition is, of course, that we will not need the oil. The great ambition is also that we will not need gas, because although I note that the debate is only about oil, it is also about gas coming from the North Sea. And there is no doubt that we owe it to future generations to move, both technologically and also in relation to our entire transport sector. After all, we are discussing a great deal in Denmark when to set up the new offshore wind farm, and a little symbolic policy has also gone into it. Some say two, some say three, some say four and so on. It is really good that there has been such an ambitious war, compared with how much we can do in terms of renewable energy, and we are not discussing coal anymore at all. It really is a regime change and renewable energy has become cheaper than coal. It is, in fact, the same thing that we have to do in the transport sector. We need to get rid of the old cars, we need to get rid of both the petrol cars and the diesel cars, and we need to talk about electric cars. It may also be green gas cars, and it may be something we haven't even made up yet. But that is really the technological leap we need. And there should be no doubt about that in reality, that is where we are going. SF is ready for it. We are ready to drive forward the demand for renewable resources. There should be no doubt about it. I wish with all my heart that I could support this resolution. There are just some built-in premises in it that make it a little difficult for SF. Firstly, the proposal states that North Sea oil must be phased out over 10 years. But then I think we should take a step back and ask what it really will mean if it is over 10 years. It will have a negative climate effect if Denmark phases out our oil and gas over 10 years. Because today Denmark has managed to export our natural gas to Poland and Germany, and this has enabled Germany and Poland to move away from coal on a large scale. Of course we are not there at all yet, and Poland is an example of the fact that it is not going at all fast enough in relation to coal, but they are using Danish natural gas, which comes from the North Sea. It is, after all, thought-provoking that we are making a positive contribution there. If you count on it a little, the alternative's proposal will mean approx. 1 million t more CO2 I think that is kind of a bit sad, because that is not the way we want to go. The second element is, of course, that if Denmark does not pull up oil, one can discuss where the oil will then come from. It will most likely come from Norway, Russia or Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. And you just have to recognise that the fields we have in Denmark are better in terms of climate, and they are thus also more efficiently driven in relation to the use of energy. So that's why it's really safe. But that is not to say that we must keep pulling the oil out of the underground. We need to have this discussion with each other. That is why I really would like to thank the alternative for opening up the debate, because that is the way we should go. Then there is the whole challenge of the revenue from the oil. I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Christian Poll in that they are going to fall not because I believe that the price of oil is falling, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is talking about. In other words, I hope that the price of oil will rise, because it will, in fact, also force demand in relation to other forms of energy. But I believe that there will be enormous pressure because there will be other technologies. Yesterday I was in Viborg • I was actually in Foulum to be exact and there I visited Aarhus University. They are in the process of building a huge machine where you can press sewage sludge. Everyone pours into the toilet which comes through the wastewater treatment plant and which they squeeze under 300 bar and a temperature of 300 degrees, and then it turns into oil. And they say that it is the aviation fuel of the future that we have here. These are such amazing stories that I actually think, if we put a lot of wind under, will push the fossil oil out, and it will really be such a happy adventure... not that I think technological fif can solve it all, but I think it's part of the solution. Here, we have to spend money. You just have to admit that. We need to have funding in order to be able to invest in models like this, because we will not succeed without it. There is research money, there is money for demonstration projects, and that is one of them. We are willing to spend money together, but it is money that comes in, among other things. from the North Sea. As stated in the energy agreement, what we are funding, among other things. The future projects of the energy agreement include financing from the North Sea oil. I am glad that all parties are part of the energy agreement, and we must then recognise that this requires some money. It does not come of itself, although I also know that there are parties in the Folketing that are not willing to spend money on it. In short, I agree with the intention, but I believe that the proposal you have put forward simply cannot be done and we must work in other ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133313	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133317	Thank you. It sounds a bit like the rapporteur thinks that in the alternative we think that we are a bit of an island, that is, that Denmark is a bit of an island, in the Paris Agreement and the only country that will work for the necessary conversion. The key change is, of course, the reduction of emissions of climate gases, but it is closely linked to what you are burning off, and it is, of course, mainly coal, oil and gas that you burn off. So our prerequisite for this proposal is that it is over a ten-year period, and it is precisely during the period when you want to replace fossil oil with what the rapporteur was out to see yesterday that was shown how to make it, namely biomass, which you are pushing for synthetic oil, for example, while at the same time introducing all the other technologies. So does it not make very good sense that, hand in hand with reducing emissions, we also reduce what creates emissions, so it is in sync with what climate science says?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133423	I think we really want the same thing, the alternative and the SF, but I think that the way there is probably a little different. I believe that it is demand that will kill the oil and gas. I think it is interesting to hear, when you talk to the big investment companies yourself, that they do not invest in oil and gas, they invest in climate-friendly technology. They have moved because they know that it is not the future. I think that is the way forward, and I believe that the objective can actually be achieved. I do not think I said at any time that the alternative says that Denmark is an island in the world. I do not know from where the rapporteur has it. I am simply saying that some of what we export, namely our natural gas which is not CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133518	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133520	Yeah, that's absolutely right. I just do not understand why, now that all the businesses mentioned by the rapporteur change to invest in renewable energy technologies, why has the rapporteur's party and a number of other parties, a majority in this Chamber, so chosen to say that the Danish state must continue to invest up to almost 2050 in these technologies? Why not take the same consequence and go ahead and say: This oil and gas business is finished in Denmark over a 10-year-old, maybe 15-year-old period? And then make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133558	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133559	Now the Danish state does not invest in oil and gas as such. We've been setting up a tax exemption for a few years. After that, both those who have part of the Tyra field, but also the others must pay taxes to the state of what is our common ownership and which they collect from the underground money that we choose to finance the green transition with. I have to say that the SF has been a party that has been struggling with this for 40 years; as far back as the 1970s we have fought the fight to ensure that we have a fossil-free society. And I've seen it move. So, I have seen that discourse has actually moved so that the companies are now with us that fortunately part of the Folketing is also with us, and now we have to keep pushing. But I think that what breaks the curve, and there we just disagree, in fact about the means, is not whether the target is demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133648	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133650	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech. Yes, there are very different ways of achieving an objective, I am fully aware of that, but that is what we are discussing. Does the rapporteur not recognise that it may be an idea both to screw the button called demand and the button called supply at once? And that is exactly what you do by saying: we stop now and we make a wild phasing-out plan. Then we can go to the other countries and say: should we not just sort out these phasing out plans for fossil production in all countries, so we live up to the science that says that 80%. of known resources should remain underground? So for something else, I'm a little curious about, and it's this money from the North Sea Agreement that was made. I recall that I was in the debate with the rapporteur right after this agreement was made. And the rapporteur said: this is going to be used for green conversion. Then another politician from the circle said: "This is for welfare." And then the last one, who was the minister, said: "This is for tax relief." There's a lot of uncertainty about what this money might be spending on, also because it has to be a pretty high price of oil you have to get in order to get this money home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133756	First about the demand and supply: well, I have no doubt that demand means that supply is falling. We can see this in other areas: if demand rises sharply, for example. In terms of ecology, it goes with it. And that's exactly the same thing we want with the oil just the other way. I do not, therefore, disagree with the fact that the Paris Agreement states that 80% must be retained. of the resources in the underground. It will most likely also be reality, because many of the resources in the underground are hard to get to. I think that Denmark should go on its own. We are a very small oil-producing country. the climate effect that I mentioned earlier, which would be negative. However, I think we could go along with the other countries and have the discussion. In fact, I would like to send the Minister to discuss with the other countries what consequences it may have for future oil resources. As regards the second part, namely what the money is to be used for, the alternative has helped SF, because the Alternative and Enhedslisten are part of the Energy Agreement, and the Energy Agreement states that it includes: to be financed by the North Sea oil. I am glad that this means that we have been involved in directing some of the money in the right direction instead. The North Sea Agreement stated: green conversion and welfare. Actually, there were no tax cuts, so you can't actually use the money for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133922	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404133924	But it is true, as the rapporteur points out, that these are some of the money, because not all the money we get from the North Sea is spent on green conversion. It's just for confirmation. Then there's this one-time thing. I think that, at the latest in Katowice at COP24 in the autumn, when you talk to other countries' NGOs and politicians about these phasing out plans, they say: But when rich countries like yours keep pumping up oil and giving tax rebates to get even more oil and gas, why should we stop doing that? These are poorer countries that may have a different need than we have in our economy. The billions that are being thrown around aren't that big a deal. Over 16 years, it's about 50-60 billion. kr. And it is therefore over 16 years, not a year, as I think it has been mistakenly understood in some places. So you're not a pioneer when you go alone, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134015	First of all, I would like to say about this with the money that, as I understand it after reading the alternative's proposal, it says 16 years, and if you count the money together, it is 64 billion. kr. That's 64 billion. kr., which comes in and which you can choose to use for example. More welfare, if you want to. I would, for example, like: There should be no doubt about that, because I think it is good for our children that there are more educators. I would have liked to have seen a better primary school, and I would also like to spend some of the money on a green transition. But it's money that you can only get by getting into the treasury. It is true that not all the money will necessarily have to go to the green changeover, but they will have to go to the treasury. And then I hope that after a parliamentary election there could be a majority that would make more sense with the money than the current majority who spend it on hopeless tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134106	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134113	Thank you, President. We are dealing here with the B 85 proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the plan for the dismantling of hydrocarbon production, put forward by the Alternative. By 2018, the North Sea contributed 439 billion. kr. in tax revenue to the Danish State. If the alternative's proposal became a reality, there would be no more tax revenue from the North Sea from 2030. It is estimated that the State revenue from 2030 to 2046 will be 106 billion. kr., and that's 106 billion. kr., we will be missing for the green transition and Danish prosperity and thus also welfare. At the same time, we must expect significant claims if we cancel and dismantle permits that have already been granted. The dismantling will not affect global consumption due to the size of Danish production, but instead only lead to increased oil imports. And Danish oil production, according to Science magazine, has the lowest climate footprint in the world. The proposal will also damage Denmark's reputation as an attractive and credible investment target. You can usually trust the agreements made by the state, but this will mean that we break agreements. It is absolutely not good for Denmark's reputation. However, the Conservative People's Party fully supports the Paris Agreement and Denmark will fulfil its obligations in the Paris Agreement, even if we continue to import oil and gas into the North Sea. The Conservative People's Party cannot support B 85.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134324	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134327	Thank you. Now I have heard that Conservatives are the green party in the government, and I am pleased about that. And then I wonder whether the rapporteur has noticed this information from climate science that we have to reduce our fossil energy extraction and has noticed that we have to try to keep to just one fifth of what we know today. Does the rapporteur think that this should also apply to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134359	I am pleased that the rapporteur for the proposers has heard that Conservatives are the Green Party. He's absolutely right about that. However, we are also realistic about the phasing-out of fossil fuels. We have a realistic approach to this in the sense that Denmark must work, that welfare must work and that prosperity must be there, even until we have found the technology that can help to displace fossil fuels. We are just realistic about that, and that is what the alternative lacks, namely realism, about how fast you can do this without getting a loss of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134450	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134454	Thank you. Now it is actually a very small proportion of the total income of the welfare state coming from the North Sea oil. In fact, the welfare state is rather well upholstered in the long run. So now that we have this commitment in the Paris Agreement to reduce our emissions, would it not look silly if we suddenly stood and produced a lot of fossil energy in 10-15 years' time while at the same time we are a society that has reduced our emissions quite drastically?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134527	But in the next 10 years we will not be so low that we are free of fossil fuels. That would therefore mean that we would have to import. And since we are the most CO 2 2 Therefore green conversion for Denmark will be that we get first and foremost the technologies that can help to displace hydrocarbons. And we will be able to do that by using some of these billions that we get from the oil extraction in the North Sea to make the green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134621	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134622	I'm a little curious about the fact that we have to constantly develop new technology, but still keep chasing oil and gas. Does the rapporteur think that there is an expiry date, or should we just keep granting these new permits and not at all wondering whether we should phase out production etc.? What is the aim of the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134644	We know right now that we have agreements up to 2046 and there have been other invitations to tender. I and the Conservative People's Party will not be able to look beyond 2046, but it is clear that in the long run this production will be phased out, and I believe that what will become the effective stop for oil and gas extraction will be technology leaps in the areas of alternative energy. This will mean that it will not be profitable in the end to expand oil and gas economically, and so it will stop just as quietly. That would be very good for us, because I refuse to believe that we in Denmark can get Nigeria or Saudi Arabia to agree that they should not extract because we are doing it in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134748	Okay, sir. Anyway, Rasmus Nordqvist would like to make a brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134749	Yes, it was motivated by listening. Thank you, Mr President. What's important is, so to speak, when it's gonna happen and how we're gonna make this plan. Now you can look forward to 2046, and does that mean that you will not grant more permits for more oil hunting and more gas hunting in the North Sea, or what? Is that where Conservatives put their foot down, or are we just gonna keep going like nothing's happened?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134821	At the Conservatives we are realistic, compared to Denmark also having to work for the next 20 years and the next 30 years, and we have set ourselves the goal of being CO2 We are a party with a government that has made the greatest energy reconciliation ever, where we are in the process of getting alternative energy sources in place, among other things. Three huge offshore wind farms. This means that we are in the process of making Denmark fossil-free, and that is the best approach we can possibly have. Then you can have theoretical discussions about when to stop oil extraction in the North Sea, but I think that will be a parenthesis in history writing, while what will not be a parenthesis will be the technological leaps in pushing out oil and gas that we are going to experience over the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134918	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404134925	Thank you. Climate science is clear. When we talk about the Paris Agreement, which sets the framework for our future, we must not only reduce our climate gas emissions, but we must also look at what we are burning about. Climate science simply requires a rapid phasing-out of coal, oil and gas if we are to ensure the future of the planet, and we must do so in order to save lives, in order to create stability in the future and not to escalate the climate crisis to infinite heights. We cannot be a green forerunner country, and that is a little too bad, because otherwise, with the broad energy agreement that has been made, where all the parties in the Folketing are involved, we have a good basis for throwing in more and more ambitions over the next few years and creating a serious transformation, but when it comes to what we are pulling up from the North Sea, the Folketing is quite different. Today we have 55 drilling platforms and production platforms in the North Sea, which pump up fossil oil and gas around the clock, and this continues with the agreement that now exists, the North Sea Agreement from 2017, until 2046. That's way too long. In fact, in my view, Denmark is faced with a very clear choice: do we have a strong economy in our backs, which we actually have, to dismantle that activity? Should we stand up and be brave and say: look here, we can wind up, we are one of the richest countries in the world, and we don't need these revenues? Are we going to be a courageous country and the country that is taking the lead in the climate struggle? Or should we just be the generation that leaves the climate bill for our children because we keep pulling oil and gas up almost until 2050? I think it's running away from responsibility. But this is not a clever idea on our part, and it is not an electoral idea at all, because we have developed this proposal a long time ago and presented it several times. Ireland, France, Costa Rica, Belize and Sweden already have a serious debate in their parliaments about banning fossil fuel exploration, and New Zealand is doing so. In France, Macron will phase out all oil and gas production by 2040. The world desperately needs this planned dismantling of fossil energy production, which we are presenting with this proposal that Denmark should also be involved in. The supply of oil, coal and gas must simply be limited if the objectives of the Paris Agreement are to be achieved. So must demand, but we are in the process of doing so. For 80%. of the already known reserves must actually stay underground, and that is if we are just to reach the 2-degree target. That's what climate science tells us. So if we are to succeed, we simply have to regulate supply. We must limit the amount of oil, coal and gas that we are pulling up, and we must take the lead if it is up to us. We must not only talk about restricting demand, but we must also simply limit supply. Because, as I had a dialogue with a former rapporteur on this subject in the debate, it would be strange to have a great deal of oil and gas production if we have come so far that our own consumption is lower. By the way, the North Sea is not the gold mine it has been. The North Sea peaked with its production in 2004-2005 pieces, and then it has gone steadily downhill. Right now we are down to about a third of the production that was at that time. That's why I had been expecting this because I've been following developments for many years... that smart companies had started to pull out of the area and quietly say: Well, that's it, oil and gas is a sunset technology, let's switch over and go for renewable energy technologies. But then it happened that parts of the industry went to the government, went to the Folketing a few years ago and asked for an additional tax rebate so that you could go further out in the North Sea, get new agreements in place and drill after new oil and gas. I think it is really a pity that a large majority of the Danish Parliament agreed, because now we are in a cat-ache. Now we are locked to find solutions to get these activities off the ground, and it's going to be hard, and it can also be expensive in terms of claims, but that's something we have to solve. Because we're just gonna have to get this production down long, long before 2050. In 2016, taxation on oil and gas actually amounted to only 0.2 per cent. of the total Danish amount of tax revenue. So if there are concerns about the welfare state and how to finance it in the long run, you don't have to have those concerns. The Danish economy is strong on the long track, and we are not dependent on the North Sea revenue in order to maintain and further develop our welfare state. According to the Wise Men's Report of spring 2018, there is an average surplus of 20 billion. kr. per year on public finances up to 2075. So we don't need this money in the long term. We also have very uncertain assessments of whether there is such a large amount of money at all. The sum of 106 billion has now been mentioned here today. kr., and if you use some other estimates, you can go down to 72 billion. kr. These are all estimates with a very high degree of uncertainty and, of course, this will also be reflected in the claims that may be made, because they will also have to be able to justify the compensation they will claim. In 10 years, in 15 years, there will be so little oil and gas to pick up out there, and the cost of picking it up will be so great that we are talking about rather small values. I feel pretty convinced of that. So all in all, we have no doubt in the alternative. We think it is important that we cut emissions and switch to renewable energy, so, of course, we also have to phase out the production of fossil energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135637	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135641	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I was just a little absent at the beginning of it, but especially the last part I attached myself very much to. It was a lot about economics and, as a good liberal parliamentarian, I am a great deal concerned with economics. And I actually think that this very debate is very much about that. The rapporteur mentioned that we are not dependent on the revenue from the North Sea. You can take that as you like and then we are talking about somewhere between 72 billion. kr. and 106 billion. kr.; what is it like to finance them? I know that the Alternative has good financial plans and the good financial plans must be quoted in quotation marks because there you will finance all your festivities. I would also like to know what it is that is needed to finance this. However, the last thing I am really hardest at is that the rapporteur actually recognizes that if we implement this, there will be large compensations to be paid to those involved in the North Sea who are bringing oil and gas out of the North Sea today. So it is actually recognised that compensation must be paid in this respect. So the alternative is simply prepared to have to stop the extraction of oil and gas from the North Sea within 10 years and then pay large compensations to these companies, while at the same time not wanting to make use of revenues from the North Sea for green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135814	This shows precisely what a large majority of the Parliamentary Parliament, apart from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, has been brought in here, because the North Sea Agreement has simply enabled a number of companies which have been granted these permits to make claims if we want us to follow the Paris Agreement. And I think that is what is shocking in this case, i.e. that in 2017 an agreement is entered into with a number of companies to continue the extraction of fossil energy almost until 2050 and thus bind Denmark's economy, both in terms of revenue itself, but also in terms of compensation cases, as a responsibility we have to take. We are going to make this money in the very long term, and it is very uncertain how much we get in after 2030. So I think it's an important matter to stick to the fact that we're gonna phase out this production, and we're gonna have to look at the long track, how we're gonna finance these things, but it's very uncertain.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135931	Thank you. Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404135933	I do not know whether I was given an answer to my questions about how this is to be financed and whether the alternative is actually prepared to pay these compensations to the private operators who are now in the North Sea. But let it go. Instead, I would like to ask about the objective of net zero emissions in 2050, which the alternative is actually also prepared for, and which is at least part of the 2018 energy agreement, where that is the long-term objective. Net zero emissions in 2050 I understand, as I also explained in my rapporteur's speech, that this does not necessarily mean that we should not deduce CO 2 2 at all. Christian Poll, whom I am very pleased about not being my accountant, considers the concept of net zero emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140029	Thank you. We believe that we should go beyond net zero, and I know that the government believes that it is called net zero by 2050. Our ambition in the alternative is to be fossil-free much earlier, and that actually means that we have to finish extracting and using fossil energy in Denmark. With regard to the claims for damages, I would just like to say that, in the course of such proceedings, there will be negotiations, and it will have to be said to these companies what compensation they can get. And that's where I think it's gonna be a lot smaller than we're just expecting. But there is no clear answer from the Minister to Question 230.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140111	We thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140144	We are opening the debate, and we are doing so with the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140152	The proposal calls on the government to draw up an action plan aimed firstly at ensuring that gender, gender equality and diversity are included in the education of all public employees, as well as students who have or will be responsible for day-to-day education, primary schools, vocational schools, upper secondary education and higher education to take it all with them now. Secondly, the proposal calls for a general priority to be given to continuing training in relation to gender, gender equality and the diversity of all public employees in contact with citizens. There should be no doubt that all citizens must meet equally in public regardless of gender, regardless of ethnic background, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation or religious beliefs. I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. But this also follows from the basic principles of administrative law to which all public authorities and public servants are subject. This is true, whether you like it or not. is a patient at the hospital, available at the job centre or is an elderly citizen receiving home help. It is also important that children and young people meet equally in day care and schools, and that teachers and educators help to overcome the different standards and stereotypes of expectations that can be met early in life. This, of course, requires the knowledge and competences of teachers and educators. As the proposers point out, it is now a requirement that the students in the pedagogic education should have knowledge of equality, family forms and sexual orientation and gender identity. This is done by means of a mandatory module, which all students must include in their teacher training the themes of gender, equality and diversity in various areas of competence, for example in the fields of Christianity knowledge, view of life and citizenship. In addition, it is part of voluntary courses in health and sex education and family knowledge. A recent evaluation of teacher training showed that it is only 21 per cent. of the teacher students who have completed the course. As a follow-up to this, the conciliation group behind teacher training in March concluded an agreement in which, among other things, the professional high schools. will be given the task of drawing up an action plan for the voluntary courses on teacher training, with particular focus on e.g.: health and sex education and family knowledge. The aim of the agreement is to strengthen the participation of teachers in the courses and to develop the quality of the courses. An evaluation of health and sex education and family knowledge has also recently been carried out in primary school, which indicates that there are absolutely challenges with the teaching. The evaluation shows, among other things: a need to look at how education is better anchored and more matching what children and young people demand. That is why the government is concerned about how we can create a more up-to-date health and sex education and how we can create education that is more concerned with the issues and challenges facing children and young people today. Over the last few years there has been a great focus on, for example, digital sexual violations, and cases of gross online violations have shown that young people often lack help in finding respect for each other and respect for each other's borders. It has become one of the things that I believe we must strengthen in a more modern sex education. On the basis of the evaluation, the Ministry of Education has launched various initiatives in relation to sex education. The Minister has among other things: held a dialogue meeting with the stakeholders in the field, and the Ministry is currently working in cooperation with the relevant other ministries on a proposal for concrete initiatives, which will then be discussed with the public school board. The Government has also launched a number of other initiatives in this area, including: there is the action plan to promote security, well-being and equal opportunities for people with disabilities. The action plan, which runs from 2018 to 2021, provides support for several projects that aim precisely to dress primary school leaders, teachers and educators in relation to norm-critical methods and tools. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks In addition, new standard-critical tools and methods are also being developed targeted at teachers and counsellors etc. in youth and vocational education and training. The materials are made available to all the country's youth education and other relevant actors. In relation to the second part of the motion for a resolution, it is not clear which public employees should be included in continuing training in gender, equality and diversity, or what the scope of continuing training should be for that matter. All public authorities and public authorities are already subject to the general principles of administrative law, and this means, among other things, that it would not, as a general rule, be objective if citizens did not meet equally independently of their sex, sexual orientation, disability, etc. There are a great many public servants who are in contact with citizens, and that makes it very relevant to focus attention on their ability to meet citizens in the right way. As has already been mentioned, a great deal of work has already been undertaken both in the Ministry of Education and Research, which is intended to strengthen the teaching of gender, gender equality and diversity, and, as I said, we have taken a number of other initiatives. So we think that we in the government are already working on the issue contained in the resolution and, on that basis, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140810	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140813	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I took note of the fact that most of it is addressed to the primary school, in other words to the initiatives that the Minister has listed. What we're trying to talk about here is that discrimination, which is the main theme of this challenge, takes place at all levels of our society • whether it's in primary school, in universities, during putty dinners, or whether it's sexism at CBS. It is everywhere, including in jobs, and if we do not expand the knowledge and the conceptual devices at our disposal, then I do not believe that we can put an end to this and ensure equal freedom for all citizens of our society. So I'm looking for the red thread. In the alternative, we have said that we would like to see equal opportunities assessed in all the legislative proposals relating to gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting, as we are also required to do from the European Union. So where is the common thread if the Minister could move a little away from primary school and talk a little more about the common thread in order to ensure an equal life and freedom for everyone in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404140927	I think that is precisely what we are doing, and also with reference to the initiatives that have been taken. So I think that if we were to look at this more closely, I would also ask the proposers to be more specific, in relation to where it seems to be lagging and where there is a lack of initiatives to address this issue. I hope that I have made it very clear that we agree with the importance of this subject and the value of it. But when I look at the government's initiatives, I also think that we actually get around it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141007	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141010	The practicality could be that Sex & Society, which has supported this motion for a resolution, says that it is especially if we look at health education; it is the police school, and it is the care and welfare sector. After all, I believe that we must ensure that everyone who is in an administration has access. The motion for a resolution does not say that we should:
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141044	I agree, of course, that for all public servants who are in contact with citizens, it is important that they show that respect and understanding for everyone, regardless of their background. To the extent that I am made aware of the fact that there are professional groups which lack more insight or further training, or whatever might be at stake in this area, I would like to look into whether the opportunities available today are really sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141119	With that, we thank the Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and it is the Socialist rapporteur who stands first, Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141140	The alternative has tabled this motion for a resolution on compulsory education in the field of gender, equality and diversity for all students with future educational responsibilities and all current permanent teachers in the public sector. In the social democracy we can be somewhat concerned about the scope of the proposal. We believe that it would be too comprehensive to involve all public employees with educational responsibility and allow them to receive gender, gender equality and diversity education. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support this specific motion for a resolution. Having said that, the Social Democracy back in 2014 helped to decide that all educators should receive education in gender and sexuality and diversity, and we still believe that all public employees working in the field of children and young people, for example, should be taught gender and gender equality so that they are equipped for their work and have the latest knowledge and up-to-date skills to support and facilitate children's development, learning and well-being. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party is also open to discussing the possibility that students in the teacher's education should receive gender and gender education, so that it takes place on an equal footing with how it is done in the teaching programme today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141312	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141315	Thank you. I agree; it is very extensive to table a motion for a resolution of this calibre. We have said that it should not be compulsory for public servants, but that it should be an opportunity for them to train their knowledge. It is certain that when we look at our society, it is across class, ethnicity, gender and religion that these challenges in relation to discrimination are playing together, and if we do not have a common thread in our policy on the part of the government or on the part of the Folketing, I find it hard to imagine that we can ever get rid of it, that is, what the UN calls the eradication of racial discrimination, or discrimination in general. Does the rapporteur think that there is enough focus today? What other initiatives do the rapporteur think we can take to equip our society to create an equal and diverse framework for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141420	I believe, first of all, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we can make it something more important in teacher training, so that Danish primary school teachers are equipped to have sex education in primary school. There are not many primary school teachers who can do that. It is a course on teacher training that can be taken or not taken, and then, unfortunately, the quality will be the same. So I would say that just as we started with the pedagogic education here five years ago and that it became a mandatory part of the education you take, I think it is interesting to see that you could do something there with the teacher's education, without me going to lay down exactly how to do it. But let us focus on children and young people first and then let universities, and what else we have, focus a little less on it. When I say compulsory education, it is because it is in the motion for a resolution that I have on page 3 that compulsory education is mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141526	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141527	But it is true that the compulsory part is for those who have educational responsibility, not for public servants. But at least I agree. What is the rapporteur's position on the fact that high school students are also looking for more sex education? I fully support the fact that we must ensure that this goes into the public schools too, and there is support from the alternative to that, but we also see that they are experiencing sexism in universities, and we see that they are experiencing other forms of discrimination, also in relation to their educational choices. But we're just gonna leave that alone, or what are we gonna do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141600	I would say that I am open and very positive about taking the discussion in relation to all the places where we experience that there is a need and where we think this can be the solution to the problem we see out there, and then we have to take one education at a time, where we think it makes sense. But to make such a complete package here, which just has to be pulled over the head of every degree programme, I'm not sure it's the very wisest way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141630	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And then we have reached Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141640	Thank you. The alternative has put forward a proposal on compulsory education in gender, equality and diversity for students with future educational responsibilities, from day-to-day to upper secondary and higher education. And it is then proposed that an action plan should be drawn up aimed at enabling public employees with educational responsibility and contact with citizens to meet all citizens equally, regardless of gender, background, physical or mental impairments of function, sexuality or religious beliefs. In the Danish People's Party, we do not think there is a need for an action plan to equip public employees to meet citizens equally. They should be able to do that in advance. It's a lot about empathy, and if you don't, I think it should be up to management to take responsibility. And if you cannot do so, in other words meet the citizens equally, it may well be that you have the wrong job. A healthy and good principle is to meet other people who you want to meet. Thankfully, for many, it is a natural part of our training • how our parents raised us. Having said that, there are a great many areas in this proposal where there are broad political agreements. There are conciliation circles in the field of primary education, agreements in the area of day-to-day provision and also in the field of education. And there I am not the rapporteur; I do not have the chromed overview of all these agreements. That is why I think that if there are to be changes, that is something that must be lifted by the parties involved in the agreements. In addition, I find it very useful that Sex & Society takes up relevant topics every year in week 6, but also has teaching material on their website, among other things. for primary school, which teachers can use. In the Danish People's Party we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141856	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141857	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I note that the rapporteur says that the rapporteur does not have the chromed overview because it lies in different ministries and different conciliation circles. And that is exactly what I am calling for here: a chrome-plated overview. We must have it in all sorts of other areas, but we do not have it in terms of equality and diversity, and I think we should give priority to that and that is why we have tabled the proposal. Then the rapporteur mentions that Sex & Society is doing very well. Sex & Society has also had this proposal for review, and they back it up. They fully support the fact that relevant knowledge and practice competences should form a mandatory part of the training programmes mentioned, but in fact also of the police and the prison system and of the social and caring sector. What is the rapporteur's position on Sex & Society making that statement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404141953	That's clear, because Sex & Society is working in this area, so I'd be surprised if they were vertical against more knowledge in this area. It is the case that there are contractual circles in this area and in relation to both education and day-offering and other things, and the alternative, if they sit in some of those circles, has the opportunity to take this up. So I think that is where the debate is being held, but it is up to the rapporteur to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142027	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142030	Well, thank you for that, and so will we.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142039	With that, we thank the rapporteur. You don't have to ask question number two if you don't have anything. It's entirely up to you. Now it is Mrs Anni Mattiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142050	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have also said, what we are dealing with right now is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, which would like to oblige the government to draw up an action plan ensuring that gender, gender equality and diversity education are included in the education of all public employees with educational responsibility and for students with future educational responsibility. This must also apply from day-to-day provision of primary and secondary education to higher education. The motion for a resolution also means that we must give priority to an increase in competence in relation to available continuing training for all public employees with contact with citizens. So in this way it is a large resolution that affects a great many areas. In the Left, of course, we agree that all citizens of society must meet and be treated with respect, regardless of gender, background, sexuality or religious beliefs, and I am sure that all those present in this Chamber are of the same conviction. I must also say that, for this very reason, the present government has also set in motion a number of different things which need to make up for the very things that are contained in this motion for a resolution. I will not begin to list all the things that the Minister also mentioned in his speech. However, I can say that it is actually the case right now that the Minister for Education and Research is in the process of mapping whether the professional high schools can improve education and participation in the course of health and sex education and family knowledge. So it is precisely during these months that work is being carried out which, in the long run, should lead to more primary school teachers becoming familiar with and better able to teach in this area. Unfortunately, I must inform the authors of the motion that the Left will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142310	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142315	Thank you. Now the rapporteur would not list what the government has done. After all, there are many things the government has said no to over the last four years. Among other things: We have put forward proposals for an equal pay pool of 5 billion. kr. to offset the pay gap in the gender-based labour market. You are opposed to the earmarked maternity leave, which is also the European Union's line. The promise of equality does not seem to support it either. The gender-based pay statistics have been undermined and the Icelandic model has been rejected in order to demonstrate that there is equal pay in Danish companies. What I am calling for with the resolution here is, of course, that we have a common thread and that we have a Ministry of Gender Equality which addresses all the challenges that are, with discrimination in our society, whether it is in the education sector, whether it is in business or where it is. And I'm afraid that's a big focus. It is an interdisciplinary focus because there are so many domains that have influence. So can the rapporteur see a need for us to have a common thread in terms of equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142424	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142424-2	Thank you. I actually think there's a thread. Apart from the fact that I am here today speaking on this motion for a resolution, I am also the rapporteur in the field of children and also in the field of education, and I can at least inform the rapporteur of the alternative that these issues are one of the issues we are discussing in conciliation. So I actually think that we are fully aware of the fact that there are places where it can also be better. That is also where we have started some work to find out how to do it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142505	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142507	Thank you. Then I just have a brief follow-up question in relation to the rapporteur being also rapporteur in the field of children and school. Just this year TrygFonden has presented an analysis that shows that up to 1 in 10 brown children can experience discrimination in primary school compared to a white child. What does the rapporteur's party think about addressing this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142530	I have to say that I think, first of all, that these are sad figures that the TrygFonden could come forward with. And then I have to say that, in general terms, I believe that this is a task and a number of issues which are also the responsibility of the staff in the schools. I have to say that we are deeply, deeply opposed to this discrimination, just as there are other similar forms of discrimination, as a primary school teacher, as a class teacher and, for that matter, as a teacher, as a teacher, as soon as you discover that it is happening, you have a responsibility to tackle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142610	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142619	Many of us remember what sex education was like when we went to primary school. Unfortunately, several studies show that the teaching has not moved very much since then. Today, children still do not learn about various forms of sexuality and the importance of differences in body, sex, and sexuality. It is problematic that we get our teachers to teach subjects that many of them have not been taught themselves. We could never imagine that happening to other subjects. The subject has been compulsory in the Danish primary school since the 1970s. It is therefore paradoxical that it is still only voluntary for students in teacher training to take the course. It is important for young people to have proper knowledge of sex education and criticism of standards, as understanding diversity is the cornerstone of our democracy. It is therefore essential that teachers receive the necessary qualification so that they can pass on knowledge to pupils in primary school. With cases of young girls in high schools being exploited for so-called cuddly dinners, and most recently the large Umbrella case, where a thousand young people were charged with distributing child pornography, it is crucial that our young people become critical of standards and thus can oppose some of the creepy trends that accompany digitalisation, and above all they must have knowledge of borders, respect and consideration. At the same time, social media gives a completely biased picture of the body and creates unrealistic ideas about body ideals that affect young people as young as 6 years of age. It is therefore crucial that all young people in the Danish education system have a realistic view of health and body. Normcriticism does not, however, belong only to the education system. As the proposal rightly suggests, Enhedslisten also believes that employees with contact with citizens should be equipped to meet many different people so that they can be understood by whoever they are or identify as. The Enhedslisten would have liked to have seen some measures put into practice in the proposal. Among other things, there is a lack of information. clarification of how this should be understood and how it should be financed. However, the Enhedslisten wishes to cooperate further in committee and also supports the proposal despite the shortcomings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142842	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404142854	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we are very much in line with what the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party said when she stood on the platform a short time ago. Of course, if you are a public servant, you can meet citizens equally. Of course, you have the basic quality of meeting people regardless of sexual background, gender, anything else with respect. In fact, when you read the alternative resolution, I think that it sends a very wrong signal to all the skilled civil servants who go to work every day, are doing a fantastic job, taking care of our older fellow citizens and our children. This resolution sends out a signal that they are not good enough, that they cannot find out how to meet citizens at eye level and with respect. That is not what I see when I talk to relatives, citizens who are in contact with the public, on the contrary. If this was really important for the alternative, i.e. an important area, then I think we should have made a little more effort before calling all the parties of the Folketing down to discuss a motion for a resolution. This is an extremely unconcrete proposal which points to an action plan. For who? We don't really know. It's probably some public servants who meet some people. Financing? What's it gonna cost? We don't know anything about that. It has not bothered to investigate this, nor has it tried to give concrete form to what an action plan should contain. How will we better equip the public services, the future teachers? Asking the parties of the Folketing to take a stand on this is quite irresponsible. I think that the alternative should go back with its so-called resolution and find out what exactly you want. Whom would you like to take action against? How do you want to do that? And what's it gonna cost? In fact, the parties of the Folketing will then be given an opportunity to take a position on a proposal. Of course, the Liberal Alliance doesn't support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143145	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143148	Thank you to the rapporteur for his contribution. Well, I take it that it could easily be more precise in the proposal. What I do not accept is the second, because we must not dictate what the action plan is in concrete terms. What I know when I talk to all the organisations that have been involved in this process is that they want to be involved and that they want to have the opportunity to influence what the content is. And every time we come from the state and impose a framework on them where they have not been sufficiently involved, it is that they do not see that we are working against the structures that are in our society. So that's why it's not there. That is also why I cannot calculate what it is going to cost. In the first place, it's about creating this action plan. It was actually just a comment on the rapporteur's speech. But thanks for the input.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143243	It was just a comment, so there's not much to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143248	Then we thank Mrs Laura Lindahl. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143252	Thank you for that and thank you for presenting the proposal today. It is always a good thing that we in the Parliamentary Assembly can have some political discussions on norms, gender concepts and equality, so thank you for that. In the SF we share the desire to work for greater equality and diversity in all parts of society, including schools, colleges and the educational world in general. We believe, in line with what is described in the comments on the proposal, that it is important that there should be more education in the field of norm criticism, gender, equality and diversity in various educations, including for future teachers. It is important that as a teacher or teacher one is able to be critical and reflected on how different stereotypes characterise the ideas about what children can and will do. This is important not only for children and young people in educational establishments, but also if we are really to ensure more equality and diversity in educational choices and in the labour market. We are therefore also positive about the intentions of the proposal and the fact that the alternative focuses on the subject. If, however, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands today, it is not really about the substance of it and the intention of it, but more about the fact that the content of training is part of the respective political agreements and agreements in the field of education and training. In the SF, we are involved in a number of agreements and conciliations across education, and we always fight to promote the gender agenda when we negotiate with the other conciliation parties. We also believe that it is there, in other words in the conciliation circles, that future discussions on gender education and equality and diversity in the respective education systems should take place. At the same time, such substantial changes in the content of the different courses should be made in a close dialogue with relevant teachers and student organisations in the field, taking into account both professional and practical challenges by changing the teaching of the individual courses. We know that when you put something in, there is something else that needs to be done, and the training programmes are also linked differently. I would also like to say that, even a few years ago, we have proposed that gender education should be introduced in teacher and educator education, so that we are so much in line with the intentions of it. It has also become apparent that it has now come into the educational programmes. It's missing somewhere else. However, I believe that the fight must in fact be fought in some places other than by dealing with a resolution in the Parliamentary Assembly. Against this background, we share the intentions, but cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143540	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143543	Thank you. I fully agree with the concerns. I also know that Djøf has supported it, but has also expressed some of the same concerns, namely that it is a very large area. But could it be imagined that there was a ministry which took action to create this chrome-plated overview, and which ensured that there was an equal opportunities assessment, ensuring that equality and action against discrimination and gender awareness affect all ministries? How do we know today that all the negotiations we are making in parallel with each other are not helping to counter the fact that we have this intersectional focus on our diversity in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143623	I don't know if we can ever really be sure of that, and I don't know if it's just the ministry that's gonna do that job. So, I would actually say that, as equal opportunities rapporteurs here, we have a huge responsibility to actually talk to our education and training rapporteur if we are not at the same time, so that we really get it on the agenda every time we have to negotiate some of these training notices and study arrangements anyway. We need a sharp focus. At least we have it in SF, and we are actually trying to kick it in where we can. But it is never an easy exercise, of course, because there are always many more desires for what the courses should be able to do than there are in fact years to go on the courses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143707	Thank you. The next one is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404143732	First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have commented on the proposal. What I can primarily take with me is that perhaps it should have been more precise and thoroughly worked out, and I will certainly take that with me. Having said that, it is action that creates change. Today we are debating a proposal that the government should draw up an action plan to ensure that gender, gender equality and diversity education is included in the education of those responsible for teaching, those responsible for our future generations and their knowledge, whether it be in primary schools, other schools, institutions or universities. The action plan must help ensure that teachers become more aware of how they create good, strong and inclusive communities, no matter where in their educational programmes our children, young people or adults are, so that they do not experience discrimination so that they do not experience exclusion. In 2012, the National Research Centre for Welfare, SFI, made an important report to the Danish Parliament. The report is called "Measurement of discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin" and it is precisely discrimination, which this motion for a resolution deals primarily with discrimination, which manifests itself through prejudices, norms, pre-treatments and discrimination, and which means that there is not equality for everyone today, that there is not equal value for everyone in our society. Discrimination is taking place in many ways and at many levels, and it costs a lot both social and personal society, because we have one of the most gender-separated labour markets in Europe where we could optimise our working life, growth and cohesion much more if we made better use of diversity. And discrimination has great personal costs because it means less choice, lower self-esteem and less freedom for the individual, whether it is based on gender, race, skin colour, religion, sexual orientation or disability. The report "Measurement of discrimination on the basis of ethnic origin" recognises discrimination as unbiased discrimination and recognises that we have institutional and non-institutional discrimination. In other words, we have discrimination, which takes place in private with our citizens and which, at the same time, is an integral part of our school and education system, healthcare, justice and all the other institutions that make up our society. I therefore believe that we need to have this broad view of how we will then change the perspectives and our knowledge and approach to creating a more equal society. Furthermore, the report speaks of discrimination as direct, indirect, conscious and unconscious, and it is precisely this subconscious bias, the unconscious bias, narratives, ideas, myths, assumptions and norms that are helping to counter equal value in our society. I was 9 years old the first time I was called the n-word and an older white boy hit me in the head and I experienced the feeling of being put out of the community because of my skin color, just as my mother of my primary school was told that they knew how to deal with such monkey cats as my brother and me. Fortunately, as a society, we have moved a lot since the 1980s, but we are far from being free from discrimination. TrygFonden's analysis from 2019, as I mentioned earlier, shows that up to 1 in 10 brown children are at risk of being discriminated against, unlike white children. Of course, there are many factors that affect this, not least the demonizing rhetoric that we have and have had for a long time in politics and in the press about Danes with minority backgrounds. But now I have been a member of the Folketing for four years, and during that period I have rebuked a colleague from another party who called our Greenlandic brothers and sisters Snow Chinese. I have rebuked a third colleague who said to an arbitrary woman on an official parliamentary journey: only women and parrots speak, men speak. It is not necessary to mention a member and party by name. It is just to illustrate that our challenges are spreading across all sectors and levels of our society. As a member of the Folketing, I have also been out for an event with well-educated people and was told that I speak well Danish. In the situations I mention here, I was the only one who opposed them, and it was clear that there were others in the company who curled their toes, but they remained silent. I dared to destroy the good atmosphere, for I have experienced through a lifetime how the good atmosphere can be at the expense of my sense of self-esteem, the sense of self-esteem in the woman who is being offended, the sense of self-esteem in the Danish girl with a scarf who is being discriminated against, the sense of self-esteem in the 9-year-old transsexual boy or in the deaf young man who is being treated as if he had ebola. Being able to destroy the good atmosphere and dare to start the difficult conversation is also called to be a Killjoy, a concept that Sara Ahmed has developed. But it requires insight, it requires knowledge, it takes courage to start the difficult conversation, and it is also what lies in this motion for a resolution on compulsory education in gender, gender equality and diversity among our teachers, so that they can dress our children, young people and adults to become wiser and bolder on the road to relaunching an equal and inclusive society for all, so that we all dare to start and stay in the difficult conversation, so that we all have the knowledge and empathy to listen to and understand the recipients of these inappropriate norms and structures that prevail in society today. None of the incidents I mention here involve anyone who is a racist or a sexist. For me, racism and sexism or agileism are not an identity, it is not something we are. It is something we do, it is actions, it is words, it is behavior, often unconsciously, standards into which we are socialised. Some standards are good: We look for when we cross the road, even if there is green; we tell our friend or friend that they should not drive if they are drunk; we have a conversation with our children if we experience that they are fellow runners and help mop others. In other words, we criticise the standards in which they participate, because they can be unfair or seen as unfair, a norm criticism which is also included in the proposal, the recognition that it is a structural problem, that it is not just a few evil people who pop up here and here. I remember that last week, at least orally, our Minister for Gender Equality gave his support to all the action-oriented statements in the Djøf's vows of equality, as well as the elements of my rapporteur's speech, which are precisely about us taking action against the standards and socialisation that maintain the status quo and the discrimination that prevents equality and equal freedom for all. With this resolution, we can start by acting. Yes, it needs to be worked through more, but we can start by creating a real equal value for everyone in our society. The motion for a resolution has passed by interest organisations from Sabaah, LGBT Denmark, the Normstorms and to Cecilie Nørgaard from Mangfold, Jacob Graack from the pedagogic education courses as at present. is the only education that has it on the teaching form • Danske Handicaporganisationer, Djøf, Sex & Society and many more, and they can all back it up, and they can all see that there is a huge amount of work ahead if we are to be able to create a coherent project, a coherent action plan. But it seems to me to be necessary, because otherwise these bilateral negotiations may not have much purpose. However, I would certainly like to thank all those who have contributed to the proposal and who have read it through and have given both positive and negative feedback. Sex & Society writes: We fully support that relevant knowledge and practice competences on gender, sexuality, equality and diversity should be an obligatory part of the education of all public employees in day care, school and education as well as in the police, prisons, social and caring sectors. I think we should actually note this in relation to the fact that it is being demanded where it may be that public servants could improve, at least in the police, prisons, social and caring sectors. The second part of the motion for a resolution states precisely that we must make this knowledge of gender, equality and diversity available to all civil servants with contact with citizens. It is not included in the proposal that it should be compulsory, but that they should have the opportunity to obtain this upskilling knowledge. This proposal is a proposal for an action plan. It doesn't cost much as a ministry to dive into what is going on right now, create a common thread, put it all up visibly for us, so we can see how it is going on, and we can create a coherence and address what the SF's rapporteur also says to our other colleagues, in terms of how we can structure negotiations so that we can achieve a real level playing field for everyone in this country. I would like to thank those who support the debate and those who do not, and I will end with a quote about discrimination and injustice by Desmond Tutu, which illustrates why I think we should act more than talking: if you are neutral in situations where there is injustice, then you have chosen the same side as the oppressor. If an elephant has his foot on the mouse's tail and you say that you are neutral, then the mouse will not appreciate your neutrality. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144713	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144717	Thank you. I would actually like to start by saying that I thought it was a very good rapporteur's speech and, as I understand the rapporteur of the alternative, the idea of the resolution here is in some way that more should be addressed. But I would also like to say that it also requires more than just talking. That is why I would also like to ask: Has the alternative thought about what the next step is? And if you are going to follow everything in the motion for a resolution to the end, what will the cost be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144801	Thank you for the question and thank you for the compliment on the speech. I can see that the rapporteur's question is that the proposal is not precise enough. So if I am going to clarify this in the minute I have here, it is about us getting exposed: what are the initiatives right now? How do we ensure that these initiatives are made available in all education in relation to gender, gender equality and diversity? Because I believe that this is a knowledge that all teachers need. That's one. The second is how we can equip our public servants to meet citizens in a more equal relationship and how we involve them in that work. We do not know the cost of this, because we do not know how large a job it will be, but it will be up to the investigation and what the action plan says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144852	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144854	Thank you. In relation to the very thing with public servants, I can say that before I became a politician, I was actually employed in the public sector for almost 19 years, and for me, when I just met the citizens, of course, it was a natural part of my everyday life, to bring this part with me, and I never thought that in this way I lacked any kind of education. Can the rapporteur not see that, as a public servant, you may feel that you are being talked down a little? Because I think this is quite natural when, frankly, you sign the contract as a public employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404144935	Thank you. That's easy for me to follow. But if we look at the statistics we have at our disposal, we know, for example, that older male citizens in several municipalities are better at walking than female citizens, and then they found out that twice as much money was spent on older male citizens, just as they found out that little girls in kindergarten are talking much more than they are talking to boys, which means they are developing a language more quickly. So the fact that we have an understanding of it, that we know how we meet all people as equals, turns out time and time again in the research we have, not to be correct. So, of course, all the intentions support the rapporteur's approach to being a public servant, but sometimes we also have to recognise that we lack knowledge in order to be able to treat people equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145019	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145022	If we lack knowledge, perhaps that is what the proposal should have gone on in relation to a knowledge bank or something else. But what I would like to ask about this proposal is that it's probably a lot about common sense, good upbringing and empathy, and I think that a lot of our public employees do. I am a previously trained social and health assistant and have worked in the care and care sector, and I have met all sorts of different people, and I suppose it's about being well-trained and meeting people where they are. I guess you don't have to make an action plan to use common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145105	I fully agree with the rapporteur that it is about empathy. Unfortunately, I disagree with that with common sense. If we look at Me Too, we can see how it has been treated diametrically opposite in Sweden versus Denmark. Where we in Denmark say that it is just lone sexist men who are at work, they say in Sweden that this is actually a structural challenge in relation to the way we talk about the sexes and behave towards each other. I think that is a little behind it with common sense. Sometimes our common sense is limited by the assumptions we have in our society, qua what we are socialised into with culture, norms and upbringing etc., and we have to recognise that, and that does not mean that all people are evil. I myself, as a man, have been saying this last week, which the rapporteur also spoke about and the biases I have to be made aware of through knowledge. And that knowledge is also what the action plan must contain and which we must have brought out to all citizens so that they can meet us and all of us equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145212	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145213	Well, basically, it's about common sense and good education, in terms of how to meet people. So it is the case in today's Denmark that we cannot, unfortunately, legislate on common sense, and that of course there will be some who, perhaps in our optics, do not have the whole common sense, and again: what is common sense? But I guess it's about how you can say that you have a good upbringing behind you, that you have some values behind you, and then it's also about mirroring yourself in each other. But to make an action plan in this area, in relation to the fact that public servants are unable to meet people on an equal basis, in relation to the fact that they actually have a relevant training behind them...
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145257	Thank you! The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145258	Thank you. I never said that public servants can't meet people with empathy. What I am saying is that we have some standards, that we have some ideas, that we have values that may help to discriminate, not on purpose, other citizens and benefit some citizens, and then I mention some different statistical examples of this. That is also what the Institute of Human Rights calls statistical discrimination, if that is what you are talking about, but there we need to have some knowledge to address those problems, and that is the knowledge that should be included in this action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145336	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145339	I would also like to thank you for a very good rapporteur's speech. There is no doubt that the rapporteur who stands on the platform now actually means this, and I also very much agree that these are important positions and unconscious patterns that need to be broken. The great art is, how do you do it? Well, can we legislate out of it? Can we train ourselves out of this? And it's hard to find those solutions. I am thinking, however, that the whole discussion is not merely poured off the board, if the rapporteur could then consider whether a report could perhaps be brought together. It may well be that it does not set in motion any concrete action because I have argued for this, where I think something like this should be at least in the field of education, but at least it sends out a signal of a common position that one might have for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145430	Thank you. I will certainly take note of that, and I myself had thought that we should gather together on a report. I hope, then, that since I have been in these equality debates in the Folketing as many times as I have, that we can gather together on a report, but many of the standards and assumptions that I am talking about are also valid in this House, and that is why we have a totally different view of what is equal treatment and what is available of knowledge and what is good behaviour and so on. That is where I wish we could agree a little more to speak, that we may be limited in our knowledge base. That is what educators are working to expand, and I think we should really spread that to the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145523	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145544	The debate is open. Sir. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404145552	Every morning a legendary fish auctionarius with its short, white cane and sells fish goes around the icebox at Hanstholm harbour. He knows his metier, because he's been doing it for years. The eyes just have to catch a buyer's eye, and then the prices are on the way up to the delight of the fishermen who land fish in Hanstholm. There's something special about fish auctions like the one in Hanstholm. A positive atmosphere is that the wheels of the fishing industry and good times in the cold auction hall, where trucks are drifting between each other and loading the trucks that are holding and waiting. With the bill we are discussing today, the Minister will also have the opportunity to hold an auction with sales or to rent out the right to catch the quantities of fish that the State can declare annually for certain actions. In this way, together with the fishing industry, it will be possible even now to provide funds to develop Danish fisheries broadly. And there is reason for a broad development, because the development power and the surplus levels are quite unequally distributed in Denmark's fishing. Now there is a need to spread out the development force and take political development responsibility for the entire fisheries sector. That is why the Social Democratic Party sees positive prospects in the new legal basis of the bill, where the purchase, sale and lease of fishing rights will be possible for the state. The home is an expiry of a political auction agreement from February this year, which all the parties of the Folketing support. The draft law also makes it possible to introduce a labelling system for carefully caught fish. It was a key element of the fisheries agreement, the fisheries package, adopted by a majority of the Folketing outside the government in December 2016 and which the government has since joined. The labelling system may be the fisheries response to the agricultural eco-label. Some say so. At any rate, there is the possibility that catches of fish caught with nets that are gentle on our beautiful nature can be encouraged. And the more of the kind sold, the more gentle fishing there will be. The draft law also provides for increased technological and electronic control in the fisheries sector. We might as well say this as it is: the Government and the Minister are asking with the bill for the legal basis to be able to require camera monitoring on the individual fishing vessels. In the Social Democratic Party we recognise that fisheries legislation aims to ensure a sustainable basis for commercial fishing and related industries and that technological developments have paved the way for new ways of carrying out fisheries controls using electronic control instruments. It can provide both a more simple but also a more effective control. That is why we also support the option that is now being introduced, because that is what it is, namely an opportunity, and we would call for careful use of that option. This is not least a task for which I expect the fisheries organisations to assume a central responsibility, that is to say the task of getting around the dilemmas that exist when we talk about camera monitoring: data ownership, counter-requirements for regulatory simplifications, etc. I have heard the automatic reaction in parts of the fishing industry. There is an extremely wide range of scepticism about the Minister's proposals. I believe that there are some places where the Minister could have risked, if nothing else, a verbal keel-hawing because fishermen believe that they will be monitored at their workplace. I just have to say that it is my clear expectation that a camera monitor can be made so that it shoots fish and doesn't have to film fishermen. In addition, the representatives of the fishing industry must also take pains to accompany a criticism of this bill with an answer to the question of how to demonstrate compliance with the landing obligation. I believe, as I said, that we should leave the idea of the new legal basis to be the guide, and then it will not do anything if there is an opportunity to exempt fishermen from certain other control requirements when technology comes on board soon. Finally, the draft law provides for the application of production levies to cover the administrative costs of the levy fund and for clarification of the rules on the levying of production levies on fish. We in the Social Democratic Party have asked about the cost of collecting the production fees of the fisheries sector, which is borne by the Danish Fisheries Association, because we want the money to go to the purposes of the Fisheries Tax Fund which we have politically wanted. With these comments, I should just like to say that the Social Democratic Party supports the draft law and looks forward to a good and effective committee procedure. At the same time, I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150112	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Ib Poulsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150124	Thank you. This proposal proposes the creation of a legal framework for the establishment of a system of sales or rental by auction of unused catch rights. The framework is now being created in connection with this bill. I consider it the most obvious thing that representatives of the profession will now be involved in the further development of this. We can support this in the Danish People's Party. It proposes the possibility of setting up a labelling system for gently caught coastal fish. This can be a welcome helping hand to a pressured segment of the fishing industry in the hope of higher prices, and we can also support this in the Danish People's Party. There will be clarification and collection of the premium, where the collection reflects that the widest shoulders bear the greatest burden. There are also more resources to be allocated to the scheme for projects in the fisheries sector. In this context, I should like to say that I assume that the system is in accordance with the law in force, among other things. the data legislation. So far, so good. This is where we in the Danish People's Party want to share the bill, as we do not agree with the last part of the bill. That part contains a set of rules to increase monitoring of Danish fishing. We cannot support this on the part of the Danish People's Party. It is astonishing that a bourgeois-liberal government wants to increase the monitoring of a liberal profession by reducing surveillance over fisheries 24-7. It doesn't belong in a bourgeois-liberal parliament. This should apply to Danish fishermen, but will it apply to the foreign colleagues of Danish fishermen who are next to them? I must remind the Minister of an earlier major mistake made during the Minister's watch, namely the closure of an area north of Gilleleje. Danish fishermen are not allowed to fish here, while Danish fishermen are allowed to fish here. German fishermen are allowed to enter the area. For some 10 years now Danish fishermen have been denied access to the area. Now clear up the sins of the past before the Minister clashes new, unreasonable, ill-thought-out rules over a profession. I am surprised that the Minister has been able to obtain the group's support for more monitoring of fisheries. Yes, it is even more surprising that the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives can support this part of the proposal, but we will probably have an explanation for that. Even the backland of the Left does not support this proposal. I still remember last year's national meeting of the Left, where a Left Member and fisherman took the floor and thundered against the Minister's proposal. As he among other things... President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: A criminal in Sandholm camp will only report to camp once a day. Can't the Minister see that there are grey sparrows shooting cannons in this case? Let us then work to ensure that fishing becomes an attractive profession of which young people flock to be part, rather than scaring them away with electronic surveillance and camera surveillance. Over the last 21⁄2 years, a majority has tried to create a framework for a profession which was more free and with more evenly distributed quotas so that all segments of the industry could provide a framework for economically sustainable fishing. With this proposal, it gets a good shot at the bow. The Danish People's Party cannot support the part dealing with monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150518	Thank you. The fisheries sector is an important industry which creates growth and jobs in Denmark and which makes an important contribution to Danish exports and thus also to our prosperity and well-being. In the Left, we want to create the framework for a continued strong fishing industry to the extent that we can get things through. We want a wide range of Danish fishing activities with space for both small and medium-sized vessels and large vessels, of course for the benefit of the industry and the many derived jobs, also on land. The content of the draft law has already been examined in the past, so I shall not repeat that. On the basis of the negotiations that have been over some time, including with reference to the report of 7 December 2016 on Danish fishing and the agreement of 16 November 2017 also on Danish fishing, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150619	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150623	I just want to hear the rapporteur from the Left whether he agrees with the fisherman Thomas Christiansen from the FN 226 • Andrea Klitbo • that camera monitoring of fishermen has nothing to do with freedom, as he said in his speech to the National Assembly of the Left last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150647	We are standing right now in the Assembly Chamber and not at the National Assembly of the Left. Of course, in the relevant forums, I am happy to take part in discussions on the various options available to ensure the safety of the sector. I have heard what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, and it must be on the rapporteur's own account and interpretation; I shall not go into that further here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150708	Sir. Ib Poulsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150710	The fisherman also asks in this context: what are we doing wrong in the industry, so we have to be monitored so much? The fisherman did not get an answer to the National Assembly of the Left, but it may be that he can have it today, and it may also be that I can have it here today. What is the answer from the Left to the relevant fisherman?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150729	Well, we're still away in the Assembly Hall and not at the Left's national meeting. But I am glad that the Danish People's Party's Fisheries Rapporteur is very interested in how we deal with fisheries policy in the Left. Of course, we have our discussions on how to comply with different laws and regulations, including looking at continued technological developments. However, further clarification and answers to the question may well belong at the national meeting of the Left. I do not think we should use Parliament's time for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150800	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404150806	I was wondering if it was humid up here after so much water had been trodden. This bill seems to us to be a very good bill, because it gives priority to the development of Danish fisheries. One of the things that pleases us most is this resource tax that is included in the proposal: a tax on our common resource, a resource tax. It may well be that this is not the word that is used all the way through the legislative proposal, but the starting point is that we have some resources in our seas in the form of fish, where those fish have been given free of charge for many years to some fishermen who have been able to fish within certain limits, within certain quotas. Now we have an agreement that allows for some new fish to be offered, that is to say, where they can be offered and where money must be given in order to be allowed to fish those fish. The money is then earmarked to be able to develop fishing in Denmark. We really think that is a very good cigar box thinking that is about it, so we are delighted and we look forward to seeing how it is being folded out in reality and what it provides from resources in the form of revenue that can help to develop fisheries. We are also pleased with what has been included here, namely a labelling system for those fish that are given a preface such as gentle fishing, inshore fishing. I believe that consumers are looking for quality fish. This makes it possible to prove that there are some fishermen who fish with gentle fishing gear and who have the quality of the fish they catch. Hopefully, it is also a label that will allow consumers to find out in time that it is therefore relatively freshly caught fish that they get in that way. Then there is the question of what control we should have of the fishing industry. But we have a landing obligation in which fishermen have to take the fish they catch. There we think it is very good that there should be a video surveillance of the fish caught. I therefore agree with the Social Democrat Fisheries rapporteur that it should be possible to establish it in a way that makes it the fish being filmed instead of the focus on filming the fishermen. After all, we have also seen some cases where it is important to know where the fishing vessels are and whether they are using their gear. We think it is quite natural that our fisheries resources should be monitored and that what fishermen catch and what they do should be monitored. I can't see it's that bad. I do not agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that this should be so bad. If you really do not want to be monitored at all, you have to abolish your mobile phone and stuff like that. If you use the control of fishing in a controlled way, I think it is perfectly natural that there is control of the profession that goes out and catches our common fisheries resources. Then it has also been included here that the measures that are paid for the landed fish catch are slightly increased. That, of course, allows us to have more money to develop the fishing industry again. We find that gratifying. I was also able to see the outlines of the fact that, in time, it could free up some funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which, of course, has a little broad scope and where there might be other projects that could be more easily promoted there when you now have a bloody income elsewhere. So I see the prospects in that there could be some recovery of fish stocks, the establishment of rock reefs and the like, which could be given greater priority for the funds, now that we are getting some extra funds by auctioning fish and by increasing the premium. So I think there are only good things in this bill, and I also note that there are a number of green organisations that express their support for what we are doing in their consultation with the bill. So I am sure that what we have here and which, of course, has a history of establishing a majority outside the government, and then the government has endorsed the intentions we have for the development of fisheries policy, bears fruit, and we in the Enhedslist are very pleased about that, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151307	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151313	Thank you for that, President. As some may have noticed, I have some papers on the platform today, but perhaps I should not in fact have brought a draft of speech to the floor of the Danish Parliament for this reading today, because I am actually quite empty of words in this context, where a very, very strange majority in the Danish Parliament outside the government has, to some extent, put a brake on the otherwise very positive development and liberalisation of Danish fishing. That is why I have also had to ask the fisheries organisations for help to understand the extensive and negative consequences that this proposal may have. I haven't been there, like... Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Ib Poulsen, has himself gained experience from the fishing industry, and frankly it seems from my chair in the Parliament a little, as if the opposition has more or less uncritically placed its mandates under the Danish People's Party's coastal fishing rapporteur in this context, and I do not think that is particularly appropriate. But back to what is interesting here, because I myself am empty of words and have therefore asked fisheries organisations. What does the fisheries organisations say to me about the present proposal? They should not, in fact, hinder the development of new fisheries since the proposal for a very great deal of uncertainty for the future of the fishing industry, and should, in particular, be based on the need to ensure that the new fisheries sector is not affected by the changes in the law, which will undermine the FKA and IOK agreements by withdrawing larger quantities into the fund and by the State buying quotas; that the sale and leasing of fishing rights and the erosion of the FKA and IOK agreements will create considerable uncertainty about the agreements and thus also by withdrawing the carpet during the financing of Danish fisheries; that investment and generational shifts will come to a halt, which is precisely contrary to the intention of the development of the industry; that there will already be price reductions in the market and reduced financing opportunities; that uncertainty will come at a very, very bad time, because there is a need for extra calmness due to a very chaotic breach of funding and thus also to better and positive development of fisheries in Denmark; that the auction and rental out of new fishing rights will be a brake on the development of new fisheries, since the proposal for a very large number of the FKA and IOK agreements was extended to 16 years in order to ensure that the creation of a much better financing of the fishing opportunities for the fishing opportunities for fisheries, and therefore, and a better and a better and that the fisheries sector. Last but not least, the addition to the legislation that the state should have the opportunity to purchase quotas to cover unavoidable by-catches in the coastal fishing scheme will remove the incentive to obtain a so-called clean fishing without by-catch, thus preventing development towards more sustainable fishing and more selective fishing gear. Finally, I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the above is also an explanation of the Conservative People's Party's position on the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151715	Thank you. There are brief comments, first from Mr. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151722	Thank you. Now I had a few questions for the Conservative rapporteur: I do not know whether it is legal to put them under here, that is to say, whether Mr. Carsten Bach can answer on his behalf. Otherwise, I will have to deal with two questions for the rapporteur. My question is: how can it ever be the policy of the Liberal Alliance to increase the burden of massive monitoring of a liberal profession, in this case fisheries? Can that really be liberal politics?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151751	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151753	I would say that I do not really see it as if the three-clover government, the bourgeois-liberal government, is helping to destroy an otherwise free and liberal fishing industry. On the contrary, I believe that Mr. Ib Poulsen, as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, is helping to destroy the basis for a positive development in a free and liberal profession such as the Danish fishing industry. As far as electronic monitoring is concerned, we are, it can be said, at a time when there is a great deal of technological development, and it offers some opportunities for easier and more effective control of fisheries, which is already existing in the industry; it gives us better opportunities to collect data for research and so on. etc. So I actually think it makes sense to do so far along the way, even though it may not seem like a liberal initiative at first glance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151903	Sir. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151904	I note, of course, that the rapporteur starts by saying that this bill is not the way the Liberal Alliance would go. And then I hope that I will have the support to share the bill so that the monitoring part is put to the vote for itself; then I hope, with what the rapporteur has said, that he will be voting against that part on monitoring, that is, if you think you are liberal and that it is against a liberal profession to have this massive monitoring.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404151938	I have experience in the past with the fact that Mr. Ib Poulsen may have a little difficulty understanding the intentions of the Liberal Alliance's policy in general, but in particular in relation to fisheries policy. This seems to be the case here too; there Mr. Ib Poulsen clearly did not hear what I said in my reply to Mr Poulsen. Ib Poulsen's first remark. I would say that I am aware that the Commission is already making a proposal on electronic monitoring of different kinds. And that is why it will be something that comes to the industry in any case and will also include all other fishermen in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152019	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152021	I heard Mr. Carsten Bach backs up on this with the monitoring, and I am quite happy about that, because it is much more effective, and it is certainly possible to do so in a way that does not disturb the freedom of fishermen. However, the rest of the rapporteur's speech was one long dull speech against this bill, so I wonder whether or not the Liberal Alliance has agreed to the agreement we made in February.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152055	Liberal Alliance has been very appropriate to say with exactly the place we now find ourselves, for the sake of peace, signed an agreement and, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen was just able to see on the way down the platform, in the same way that I myself was on my way up, the fisheries policy at the moment, and this is also an expression of this bill, the result of one which I think I was also told in my rapporteur's speech, is very strangely alternative majority outside the government. We must also deal with this in the Liberal Alliance, instead of calling it a runaway or not taking responsibility in any other way for the fisheries policy to remain in place, and to the extent that we have time for what I have time for as rapporteur, to take the talk and take the debate and try to avoid the worst thistles.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152154	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152156	I just think that there is such a good tradition in here that when agreements are signed there is no compulsion to sign up to the agreement, which, as I have said, was a majority outside the government, so it could have been left out; that is at least the other agreements that I am involved in on behalf of the SF. I can have some things that you are a little unhappy with, but it is so direct to talk about it and say that it smashes up Danish fishing, so I find it difficult to see a loyal connection to the fisheries agreement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152239	I am not a type of person who cares very much about traditions, I would say, but if Mrs Trine Torp had listened to what I said in my speech, I actually started by saying that, in this context, I was completely empty of words and therefore had to seek information and knowledge about the consequences of this draft law among fisheries organisations, and so I actually gave one to one, what the fisheries organisations informed me as Fisheries Rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and what their view of the specific draft law was.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152319	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152322	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and thank you for showing us the noble art of blowing and having flour in our mouths alive. It must be said that this speech by the rapporteur is so much an expression of this. I do not know whether one can read into it that the Liberal Alliance is leaving the government, almost regardless of how a parliamentary election might go, but with regard to the fact that not taking responsibility for the compromises, whether you like traditions or not, I think it is a good thing in the Folketing to be able to stand by the compromises you make. I just think that the rapporteur was a little gloomy and sceptical, and there were no limits to how it was devastating for Danish fishing, so I will now read a quote from the Danish Fisheries Times, where a consultant for the Danish Fisheries Association says: we must admit that the recovery has been successful, also in Danish fishing. The activity is great, there is still the construction of new ships, but we have also seen the approach of flagging and buying second-hand vessels. Is the rapporteur not pleased that Danish fishing is doing well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152430	I am very happy when things are going well in Danish fishing, and I have a very great hope that this will also be the case in the future. The rapporteur himself calls for a relatively imminent parliamentary election, and I am therefore personally looking forward to coming on the other side of the famous parliamentary election and hopefully we will then be able to create another, less curious and less alternative majority on Denmark's fisheries policy. Then it may also be that we have got a more positive view of how the British will move forward in their departure from the European Union and the process they have around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152523	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152525	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Left said that this was not the national meeting of the Left, and I am also glad that it is not the British House of Commons, because if we were to point for it, we could not do very much right now. In view of the rapporteur's speech on this draft law, it is natural for me to ask the rapporteur: which part of the draft law does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur think is the best, in other words, in the legislative proposal we are dealing with here? I understand that from the perspective of the Liberal Alliance, camera monitoring of Danish fishing is being supported as a modern form of business policy, but can it be emphasised what is the best part of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152605	I can see from my display in front of me that I only have 28 seconds, and I just don't think I can think well enough to answer that question within the prescribed time frame, unfortunately. So I'm gonna have to ask, sir. Simon Kollerup to sit next to me in the Chamber a little later, and then we can have a little longer talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152630	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152633	I do not really think it can be said that it is a strange majority that has been in relation to fisheries policy in Denmark. It is, of course, a majority in the Folketing that has come together, and it is then a majority that consists of the whole red-green block and then the Danish People's Party. And that is a significant majority, which then has an agreement which contains a number of elements that can develop Danish fishing. Then it has happened voluntarily that a number of blue parties have agreed to that agreement. One could simply not do that, and then we could quietly have driven on with the majority and made measures that could support the development of Danish fishing. I would really like to hear, since we are adjusting a little bit on those bloody taxes and there will be a tax of an extra 6 million. kr. of the fishing industry, whether the rapporteur thinks it is a lot of money when you can see that in 2015, 2016 and 2017 there has been a profit of approx. 800 million kr. in the fishery. So we are thinking of something that is a tax of 6 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152748	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152749	Thank you. On the subject of whether it is a strange majority or not, I can say that it is absolutely right that we should be able to describe what we want. I have recently heard that I am sure of the radical leader, and in fact I think I have also heard Enhedslisten's political rapporteur, the author of the questioner's question, speak quite succinctly about, for example. Foreign policy, which Prime Minister's candidate is to be pointed out, about dependence on the Danish People's Party's mandates and such things. I have to say, then, that this kind of attitude to certain policy areas does not seem to apply when we talk about fisheries policy, but rather about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152851	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152854	You can always talk about something else, but I think we should get back to the bill. After that big bandbull, which the rapporteur read out earlier, I would really like to hear whether the Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of this bill. It is a little unclear, of course, when so much negative is said about a good legislative proposal, whether the Liberal Alliance will agree that they are part of a fisheries agreement and that, in this sense, this is a natural implementation of that agreement. Will the Liberal Alliance support this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404152927	Thank you very much for pointing this out to me and pointing it out, because of course the Liberal Alliance supports the bill in question. And we are doing so, as I said, because in reality we would very much like to take responsibility for bringing Danish fisheries policy to a place where it is once again in a positive development and a positive liberalisation. We believe that this is best done if we stay within the fisheries agreement circle and then, after the parliamentary elections mentioned above, help to form a new and less curious majority that can drive Danish fisheries policy in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153003	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153010	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the previous rapporteur for pointing out all the drawbacks of the proposed legislation, but perhaps I would like to focus a little more positively on that and say that we can vote in favour of the proposal. We read that the Association for Gentle Coastal Fishing, Greenpeace, WWF and the Danish Nature Conservation Association agree on a labelling scheme for gentle inshore fishing, and we share the view of promoting gentle inshore fishing through visibility for consumers. Several of these organisations also support the establishment of rules on the use of electronic control instruments to counteract the huge waste of unwanted fish thrown back into the sea. We support the need to tighten up controls on fisheries and, in general, we are positive about the intentions of the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153113	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp. We'll make it all, don't worry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153143	Thank you for that and I am sorry I was a little slow to come up here, but I had just forgotten that the Radicals had been greeted. Of course, in the SF we are positive about the proposed legislation. After all, most of the parts are about the fulfilment of agreements that we have been involved in concluding yes, which have actually been concluded among all the parties of the Folketing, although it may appear that not all the parties of the Folketing are behind them. This applies, among other things, to: the proposals to set up a system of auctioning or rental of unused catch rights. This is the case with the establishment of a labelling system for gently inshore fishing, and that is one of them. one of the things that we are extremely pleased about has been included in the agreement, and it is not only for the sake of fishing, but also for the sake of us as consumers, so we know that the fish we buy are trapped with gentle tools. Then it is proposed that it should be possible to require that commercial fishing vessels and associated professions be equipped with electronic control instruments to document and monitor compliance with fisheries legislation. The SF also fully supports this. In fact, we have had a few consultations on this and agree that we have a problem here in terms of how we can actually control that fishing. That is why we are pleased that the government has also proposed that this tool can now be tested. I am also quite convinced that it can easily be introduced without interfering with the freedom and gentleness of the individual fisherman, or whatever you have to say it is, because where the camera is to be directed there is where the fish are, and at least there is no need for the fisherman to stay. There are a great many considerations to take into account in the fisheries sector, and this makes it particularly challenging to find a sustainable balance. There are still good reasons to protect our marine environment. One of them is to ensure that in the future we also have rich quantities of fish to fish, and in SF we therefore want among other things. strengthening conditions for gentle fishing rather than fishing with bottom-scraping gear. With this bill, we are taking a step in the right direction: a step that will help fisheries to remain a profession for the many and not just for the few, and a step that will help us to better protect our marine environment and fisheries more sustainablely in the light of increased controls. So, as I said, we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153427	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153434	I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the draft law. It is clear that there is a difference in how pleased you are with the various elements, and there must also be room for this, both in the debate, but also when we reach a compromise on what we think is best for this area. I have noted the wish of the Danish People's Party to share the bill, so that the element of electronic monitoring is separated, and I am happy to assist with technical assistance to meet the wishes of the Danish People's Party. I would like to say on the subject of electronic monitoring that, for me, it is quite obvious that we are using new good methods. After all, we have had people who have examined how this is happening in other countries where there is great enthusiasm and where, moreover, there is also enthusiasm among fishermen for the opportunities offered by involving new technological opportunities to a much greater extent than we do. And I fully agree with the wording of the Socialist rapporteur that we do not need to monitor fishermen, it is the fish we are interested in. And I think that a lot of good things can come out of more involving new electronics. We can get a better knowledge of what fish are in the sea and how the environment or activity is in the sea at all. In fact, it will give us an opportunity to remove some of the rigid and bureaucratic rules that are justified for control purposes today, because we will have a much simpler and more effective way of doing so. In addition, I would like to thank you for your comments. I do not think there was much else to be said on this occasion, and otherwise the opportunity will arise during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153653	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153656	Thank you. It's kind of in another ball street compared to this bill. I should like to ask the Minister whether she believes it is legal for DFPO to receive sensitive information about members of a competing association such as the DPO and FSK in relation to the collection of the premium.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153717	I think that is a question that I should not answer on a stand-by basis, but which I would like to answer in writing. As the questioner himself says, it's probably outside of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153728	Sir. Ib Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153730	Then I would like to ask how the Minister can ensure that this sensitive information is not misused by an organisation which collects it, because it is clear that as is proposed in this bill • it is part of that • an association must collect on behalf of two other associations as well as its own members. In other words, it is inevitable that sensitive information will be provided to the association. I think you should make sure you don't do that with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153804	In other words, the general rules on the treatment of sensitive personal data will also apply in relation to the provisions of this legislation, but I will look forward to answering the question in writing during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153819	Then it's mr. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153821	Thank you. I was actually going to ask you a little the same question, because that is a little like Salling Group, formerly the Danish supermarket, having to know about the turnover of individual Coop stores every year. I think I could foresee a certain conflict about that, but now it is being answered in writing, and that is very good. But I would rather ask about this dissertation between the speech by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and this bill. Does the Minister have difficulty explaining why it is liberal policy to introduce the possibility of camera surveillance in Danish fishing? I could understand that there was no real response from the Liberal Alliance that that would, of course, be liberal politics. So does the Minister also find it difficult to argue why it should be liberal policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153908	I see no contradiction at all between using electronic monitoring in fisheries or, where appropriate, liberal policy at all. On the contrary, I see it as an effective way of reducing bureaucracy with the current rules that are on control in fisheries. I see the possibility of better control as a general follow-up to the fact that we are laying down rules on how fisheries are to be. Most recently, I have had the pleasure that the initiative I took at the time to obtain a ban on discarding fish has been implemented at EU level. I think we need to discuss at EU level how we will then follow up with a reasonable monitoring of compliance with those rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153954	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404153955	Thank you. I do not know whether I was given an explanation as to why it could also be understood as a liberal policy, but it could then come here in the second place. When I take that up, it is of course because I now heard a fairly clear rejection or caution from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on this part of the bill, and the time for the report was not really 28 seconds, so I have to go over and have answers about the whole legislative proposal in a moment. I should therefore just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister expects the Liberal Alliance, as part of the government, to stand by the compromises that are being made as a government party and also to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154033	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154034	The last thing I can confirm is that I expect, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154039	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154052	The debate is open. It's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154107	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you for the opportunity to explain the government's position on this matter. The alternative is with motion for a resolution No. B 94 proposed that the government be required to draw up concrete plans to ensure that all Denmark's national parks acquire the status of protected areas in IUCN category II, i.e. as internationally recognised national parks, within a 10-year period. ▪ Let me start by taking the excitement out of the rest of the words I'm going to say while I'm up here on the platform by saying that the government is not going to support the proposal. I would, of course, like to explain why. I think the alternative is going a little sideways with this proposal. The purpose of the Danish national parks is not merely nature conservation. National parks fulfil a wide range of other objectives, and there is a broad political consensus on this. The five Danish national parks we have today have all been created under the National Park Act, which in 2007 was adopted on the basis of a broad political settlement consisting of the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the SF. And when you list not only the parties, but our five national parks, I think that in all of us it immediately produces pictures of great, fantastic landscapes and great, fantastic natural areas: Thy, Mol's Mountains, the Wadden Sea, the Land of the Skjoldungs and the North Zealand of the Kings. And they together represent an area of just over 230,000 hectares. Large parts of the five national parks we have today include areas of national and international importance. These are Natura 2000 areas, these are § 3 protected areas, and they are major nature and landscape conservation. And when the law was passed, it was politically agreed that the model of the Danish national parks should be based on the principle that when an area becomes a national park, it does not change the already existing regulation in the area. On the other hand, this does not mean that the status of the area as a national park is not binding. The National Park Act sets out ten equal objectives which cover, inter alia: nature, landscape values, culture and outdoor life. This means, for example, that the Land of the National Park of Skjoldungerne should also contribute to the dissemination of the cultural history of the area. A classification in IUCN category II requires that we introduce a new regulation, which means that the pilot owners who own part of the national parks will be subject to new restrictions. This government doesn't want that. There's nothing new about that either. This is not surprising, because in the process of creating existing national parks, emphasis has been placed on the support of pilots' owners. From changing governments it has been quite clear that national parks do not involve any new regulation. Finally, I think that the time for possible amendments to the National Park Act is too early. We in the Ministry of the Environment and Food have started work on an evaluation of the National Park Act, in which we examine whether the creation of national parks has contributed, among other things. to strengthen and develop natural values. When that evaluation is available, we need to have some political discussions on how to follow it up. I hope that, with my aspiring educational review, I have made it clear that the government appreciates our national parks and believes that they must continue to meet the objectives of the law and that the national parks are thus helping to develop, for example. coherent nature, great landscape values, culture and open-air life. But we cannot support an initiative that goes against the model of the Danish national parks, on which a broad majority in the Danish Parliament therefore agrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154545	There are brief comments. First, it's from sir. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154551	Thank you. I'm proud of our national parks, too. I think it's amazing that we have these. I've just been a little disappointed in them, too. I am not angry, I am disappointed that when you go a little closer to the blade in the details, there are indeed both § 3 and Natura 2000 and there may be conservations, but the general picture that our naturalists also document is that there is no natural quality at all that can be expected from a national park. There it is, of course, that I hear the Minister say that there must be a balance between outdoor life, culture and so on. Most of these things are not, in fact, a contradiction. You can have a national park with lots of outdoor life, but what is a contradiction is for example. intensive forestry, farming and such. So could we not get to work there and get down on this kind of activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154700	I think that disappointment is a disappointment of the nature one can also feel when one finds out that there is no dog in dog cookies at all, i.e. this expectation that the concept should mean something other than it does. Of course, the fact is that the alternative was not represented in the Folketing when this law was adopted. Sir. Christian Poll therefore has an experience that a national park must be something different from a massive majority of the present Parliament has decided. So there are the ten points which need to be met in the national parks, the ten points we need to take into account. The majority of the Danish Parliament has agreed on this, and Mr. Christian Poll, it should be something else. So it is not, and if you have to convert it all into nature and I don't quite remember how the border is, but the way I remember it will be really, really difficult to act in Hillerød afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154800	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154802	"Handle in Hillerød" is funny. What is the definition in category II at IUCN is that it is large natural or almost natural areas that have been selected to protect extensive ecological processes together with species and ecosystems that characterise the area, and that is what you expect when you come to a national park at least in most places abroad. When we use the same term in Denmark, it is of course that nature-interested think: Hey, it was not a national park that I should come to here, where one arrives in a parking lot with agriculture and intensive forestry etc. Around. So I just want us to get to the next phase. Could the Minister not find it interesting to take us to the next stage and get real nature in our national parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154851	No, because then I'd call it a nature park. It is, in fact, a debate on conceptual hygiene. Conceptual hygiene is in itself a very interesting concept, which is to say whether you call a spade a spade a spade. I understand that there is a different definition of national parks abroad. We simply have here in the Kingdom a legal definition of what a national park is. Sir. Christian Poll wants it to be something else. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154917	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404154920	Well, I think it is important that we have some large natural areas in Denmark. And if I look at this list of what are officially national parks, I think that National Park Thy is living up to something natural, where you are rightly not disappointed as a tourist from another country if you come to the National Park Thy. But if you arrive at a supermarket in Mol's Mountains and go into Ebeltoft town and then experience that gas stations and supermarkets are part of National Park Mol's Mountains, I can see that it may contain too little, although there are also great natural values in Mol's Mountains. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is no possibility, with the existing national parks, of taking more steps so that we come to the conclusion that there is more nature, rather than just defending the fact that a decision has been taken in 2007, and then we can do nothing more. Would it not be an advantage to take more steps to restore more nature in these national parks rather than to have an academic discussion of what kind of words are used? And then perhaps you could just turn it into a tourist park, if that is what is intended, i.e. if you do not want to do more for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155040	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155041	I'm a little disappointed in Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen's lack of concern about the operation of kiosks in rural areas, which will result from the abandonment of kiosks in Mol's Mountains. Well, I fully agree that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative would like the National Parks to be something other than what they are. Those who passed the law at the time, and that is a view I share, have therefore had the idea that this is something that should be supported as a pilot. And if we're gonna continue to make sure that landowners will be part of this concept of making national parks and I think that's an excellent idea. Well, then we're gonna have to give it to them too, you might say, guarantee that we won't come running and say, "Okay, now you're in, and now something's going on with your land." Because I do not think that will be conducive to getting more people involved in this type of cooperation forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155137	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155138	Well, I can well imagine that there are cooperative relationships where there are pilots who, as a result of voluntary action, could enter into something where agreements could be made to strengthen and increase the natural content of these larger geographical areas. It happens sometimes that land is traded; there are sometimes people who get so old that they want to retire, so sometimes there must be situations that make it possible for the nature content of these national parks to be raised. Well, why write off that opportunity just because you promised something when the law was passed in 2007?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155211	Well, it's not an option that's written off either. We have the opportunity to do all sorts of things. And the rapporteur himself highlights the National Park Thy, which is one of the most magnificent natural areas we have in Denmark and which also stands out as a national park. But now that we have a national park called Kings Nordsjælland, which contains among other things. The parforce hunts and which contain some of our old royal castles, it is therefore not important for me to convert the castle park at Frederiksborg Castle to wild nature. I think it represents quite a great value as it is today. But that is why we can easily look at getting larger and more coherent natural areas around and whether or not they are located in national parks, I do not think that they are crucial. I don't think species care about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155258	Thank you. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155301	Thank you. I guess I'm gonna vote for the Glee Club of the slightly disappointed compared to the National Parks thing. It comes, among other things. of an experience I had when I moved from Aarhus to National Park Mols Bjerge. One of the first experiences I had there was that it was sprayed in the field right next to where I live in my garden in the Mountains of Mol, which also made me think about what it really is, and made me feel a little confused. I have discovered that many Danes are actually there; it is not just such a thing that the concept is different abroad. In fact, there are many people who come to my house thinking: Well, I thought that national parks were something else. However, I would just like to ask what the Minister is saying about the fact that when the investigation that is under way is complete, he will call for a political debate. What are some things the Minister could imagine could be done differently or better? Could you use these national parks to take the lead in a development that would otherwise have to happen elsewhere in the country, that is, with less spray poison in the fields and something like that? Could you perhaps take the lead in those areas, or what is the Minister thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155423	I mean, I've been to the Mountains of Mols and the Mountains of Mols National Park many times, and I can't understand how anyone can be disappointed when they get to the Mountains of Mols. As I have said before, I understand that one can think that the concept covers something else, but it does not. It is understandable, it is fine, and it is excellent and excellent that you think it should mean something else, but it does not. A national park is defined by law in this country, and there are ten criteria that can be met here. I understand very well that you would like it to be ten others, but it is not. Well, a national park is not a natural park, nor is it an amusement park, nor is it a skate park. It is a national park and it is fairly clearly defined what it is, and then you have to see if you cannot live with the disappointment you have had when you have passed the sign and bump into the magnificent nature that is just in Mol's Mountains.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155526	You can keep in mind if you want two questions. Here you go, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155534	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister that it is very beautiful out there, and it was not to belittle nature in the national park; it was also because of it that I wanted to move out there, and I am very pleased with it. By the way, there's also a skater track out there. But back to my question. One can say that it is not a static concept. I agree that some have defined the concept as it is today, but what does the Minister see as a possible further development of these natural areas? What could it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155619	It can be said that the work on this evaluation has just begun, and it is taking place, among other things. about what the questioner is asking for in relation to nature: Does this affect our way of managing nature? Does this lead to an increased interest in national parks, both for outsiders and also for those living in them? One of the things we have seen around is that some of those who were fiercely opposed to the existence of a national park have become some of the best ambassadors of the national parks once they have seen that it is not so bad. All these experiences we'd like to gather together, and that process has just started. When it is completed, I call for political negotiations, and then we ask: what can we use this for to strengthen our national parks in one, other or third direction? I'd rather not settle for that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155701	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155704	Thanks for the last one, too. That's actually why I pressed the button, because I was also a little curious. Now we are part of the conciliation parties behind the National Parks Act. The result could also be that by designating some areas as national parks nothing has happened, and that is why we do not need them, or what? That may be a little provocative, but it is just to ask: what is it you want to use studies for? We're doing a lot of research. And I don't expect us to remove five national parks, it's not my expectation, but if it turns out, you could expect us to say, "You know what, we'll give it another trial period, but I guess it's not worse or better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155749	Oh, I just said I'm not going to anticipate the outcome of this one, so I'd better not. But I have a very, very difficult time imagining the conclusion that, as a result, I encounter an enthusiasm when I move around the national parks, of course, and it is obvious that most of the people who are responsible for working with the national park itself, but also with those who live there. Of course, we must look at whether national parks live up to what we would like them to do. Is there a better communication? There are many stories to convey in many places in the national parks, but in the Land of the National Park of the Skjuldungs, for example, please, where are many exciting stories about Iron Age Denmark and about the kings in Roskilde etc. etc. I mean, are we gonna have an effect? Of course, we need to look at this with such an evaluation. Is it worth being a national park? My guess is, it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155850	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155852	This is probably also true, but the reason why I am also asking for this evaluation, now that the minister is on the platform, is, of course, that one of the prerequisites for the Danish People's Party being prepared to join these national parks was really that it was by volunteering for the landlords. I know that the Minister also agrees with me. Perhaps I could therefore fear a little, if there were an evaluation, that we would then go the way that the alternative's proposal might remind us a little, namely that we suddenly impose something with conditions that were not included in the original one. That would worry me, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155929	I can easily follow that concern, but when I do not share it entirely, it is because I see the alternative proposal slightly as saying: well, was it not also a good idea that we had some natural parks? Perhaps that wish can be met in other ways than by saying: now we have something called national parks, and now we are catching the table, now we are calling it something else, and now we are making it something else. I think that would be a convict literally, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404155956	With that, we can thank the Minister, as there are no more brief comments. Then we will begin the rapporteur's round and the first rapporteur is the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160010	Thank you. Social democracy supports the intention of the proposal, which aims to strengthen the focus on wild and coherent nature in the country's national parks for the benefit of both biodiversity and the open-air people. That is why the Social Democratic Party has also proposed the creation of no less than 15 wild natural parks with a total area the size of Bornholm. It must be primarily on the common land owned by the state and the municipalities, because it will give the coherent and wild nature and thus our biodiversity a massive boost, and that is what is needed. The wild nature parks are to be understood as actual nature reserves with great natural experiences, where there is no habitation in the past and where trees and other plants are not grown, harvested or felled, and where larger herbivores can then be exposed as nature managers, who can bring Danish nature closer to its original starting point. At the same time, it is obvious that the magnificent and large animals will be pure audience magnets, as we know it from today, where the wild horses on Langeland and the elves in Lille Vildmose attract both local and foreign visitors. In this way, nature's purpose and recreational purposes will be a higher one, because nature can easily cope with the fact that we use it. Everywhere on the planet, biodiversity is under pressure and species are in many places close to extinction and natural habitats disappear and therefore we need to strengthen wild nature. It is obvious to us that the current national parks and our wild nature parks will be overcrowded in several places, as national parks also contain great natural resources, and that large areas within national parks are publicly owned and therefore are places where production does not necessarily have to be considered. But it is also the case that the national parks in Denmark contain large privately owned areas. This applies, for example, to the Wadden Sea National Park, which is the national park that I know best for obvious reasons. Therefore, it is not realistic within a few years and within a clear economy that these very areas will be able to obtain protection as is required to comply with IUCN Category II. We fully share the ambition that both national parks, but in reality all common land owned in Denmark, should be managed more with nature's interest in the highest priority. Denmark is one of the most intensively cultivated countries. We usually say that two thirds of our land is under ploughs, and that is where infrastructure and city have to be added, and that is why we have a special responsibility to ensure that the interests of nature are high on those areas that are not under plough because they are relatively small in our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160301	Thank you. There are brief comments. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160301-2	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask a little more about the plans of the Social Democratic Party. If there's gonna be these new big areas, and if there's some pilots in those areas, what's the plan for that? Is it buying them out or what is Social Democracy thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160331	Thank you. The plan is, of course, as I was told in my rapporteur's speech, that these are the areas where we can establish very large and coherent natural areas and where we can make it relatively cheap. It must be on the land which is already publicly owned. I can easily see that, in the case of specific projects, we could go together with funds which could have an interest in contributing if there are some privately owned spots on these large lands which are jointly owned. And then, under normal private law conditions, you could offer the landlord concerned the option of being bought up if he so wishes, and then you could have a larger area, which is coherent. But it is the case that if you study the map, you will see that there are quite large areas of common ownership where we can get more out of our areas from a biodiversity perspective if we change management and make it into large, coherent natural areas. It is about moving back a little with our machines and our offensive management, our too harsh management. We need to give nature space, and then we need to let the great herbivores handle more of that nature management. It will provide much more exciting natural areas for everyone, but also obviously a strengthened biodiversity in Denmark. There are, in fact, a whole range of areas where we can do this, and some, I think, relatively low-hanging fruits where we can do more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160457	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160501	My question is also a little bit about ensuring that we who live in rural areas are safe, that is to say, what plans might be put on the table if things go so wrong that the Social Democratic Party gains power. But I understand that it is exclusively on state land and that we will then put some large animals on those lands that can, like, graze them. Could the Social Democrat rapporteur go a little further on those animals? So are these some people who need to be hired by state employees to keep an eye on and look after? I assume that they must also have a certain enclosure so that they do not spread out into rural areas and, for that matter, in the villages.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160549	I don't think there were any government animals. But here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160553	Thank you. If they're bought by the state, I don't know if you can technically call them government employees, but we can leave that alone. What is crucial here is, of course, that we do so taking into account the landowners and, by the way, those of us who live in these areas. I therefore believe that, if you listen to my opening remarks, you will be quite sure that it will of course take place on land that is jointly owned, not only state-owned, and I also believe that municipalities could be interested in joining us here. If you look at the map it's already done by a number of researchers you'll see that there are these opportunities around the country if you think a little more creatively and out of the box than has been done so far. It is clear that we must ensure that the animals we put in as part of the management of the areas, a more natural and gentle management, are fenced in such a way that they do not run over and destroy the neighbour's field.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160655	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160657	I am also a little curious, and it may well be that I am a little squarely decorated, so I would like to have such a bit more specific examples, because when you have to have animals out that graze or something, I wonder whether they should have somewhere else where they can go in winter and things like that; I suppose they should. That is the one thing that is. The other thing is: is it only light-open meadows or fields or something? I hope that the rapporteur may understand what I mean. Perhaps the rapporteur can be a little bit specific and perhaps give some examples of what that is like. Then, at least, I also have concerns about the landowners mentioned by Mrs Anni Matthiesen. If you now live somewhere, because you can do that in a state forest or on a state area or on a municipal owned area, what is the intention of the Social Democrats as regards the people who live there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160800	I think that if you listened to my opening speech, you would be quite comforted. I would urge the rapporteur to visit Langeland, for example, where the wild horses are kept. Well, well, well, well. These examples already exist out there, i.e. these examples of large grassers being used to manage our natural areas. Another example, which I also mentioned, was the elk in Lille Vildmose, which has the same function. The idea is, of course, that we should ensure that the animals are well, but in reality there should not be more grazing pressure than the animals are able to care for themselves. What we have seen, unfortunately, with the management that there are on some areas of the Nature Agency at the moment, is that the animals there have been overfed so that they do not have the nature management function that they should have, and in many places they have had too much machine management, which means that we do not have the positive biodiversity effect that we can have from grazing animals. So that is what we are thinking very specifically, and there are actually examples out there where you can go and see that it works. I cannot help noticing that if you ask all the experts in this area, for example in the extensive debate that is currently taking place at Everything, you will see that soon all biologists in the Kingdom are asking for this approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160924	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404160926	If I were a biologist, I'd be asking for it too. But it was simply a matter of understanding. After all, we have been on a biodiversity trip in the Committee on the Environment and Food, where we also saw areas where we also saw animals that went out all year round and that took care of some areas. At first glance, this was not a huge area for me, and perhaps that is why I stumbled because the rapporteur is talking about the major areas here where we can make some more biodiversity. I think that much of what we saw when we were on that trip was also small areas. I don't know if I'm more comforted, but I feel a little more calm now, compared to the fact that it may not necessarily be all of Jutland that you want to add to biodiversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161010	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161012	If you listened to what I said about the area, you'd be comforted that it's not all Jutland. I don't think that's possible, as long as we have a very cultivated country. What is crucial here and what is the reason why we need to have larger areas, as large as we can possibly get, is that if we are to really strengthen biodiversity, it is crucial that it is large, coherent areas. This is because if we have a larger area and then something negative happens externally to one species in one area, the species can migrate to another area and thus survive a fire or an outbreak of disease or something like that. If these are small areas, animal species cannot move, and then it is that they die out and disappear from the areas. That is why it is crucial that they are given a certain size.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161059	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161103	Thank you. After all, it is a pleasure to hear the Social Democracy talk about so much more nature: 15 large areas. I also know that there are plans to build much more untouched forests, because that is exactly what the researchers are saying to us. I have a few small questions for that part. Is it the same land we are talking about, that is to say, state forest, that is to be set aside for untouched forest, and is that what becomes the 15 areas? And how fast is that gonna happen? Otherwise, what we are talking about today is the national parks, the existing national parks. Does the rapporteur have any hope that they will be improved and will be better connected, which is one of our proposals, or are the Social Democrats' thoughts on 15 major new areas, etc., that they should be instead of national parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161157	No, I really think it is obvious, and I think I also mentioned it very briefly in my rapporteur's speech, that we are considering these wild natural parks and our national parks. This is obviously not going to be one by one, because our national parks contain large areas, which are private land and agricultural land. But there are also large areas in our national parks that could be included in the wild nature parks. So there can easily be overlap between a wild natural park and a national park, but it will not become one, as our national parks look like today. In the same way, it is easy to imagine that you put something untouched forest inside both wild nature parks and national parks. There is no contradiction, rather the opposite. It would be awesome and fun to visit and also be good for biodiversity if you also had something untouched forest inside the wild nature parks. And that would also be the alpha and omega of biodiversity in relation to the ideas we have about grassers, who must be responsible for nature management.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161311	Sir. Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161313	I think that sounds really exciting, and it is also very much in line with some of the thoughts we have. I'd like to know how fast you Social Democrats think this can happen. After all, we ourselves have some thoughts that national parks should draw up some development plans which say that in ten years' time you will be up to a decent natural content, and when we are going to lay out the entire state forest, 107 000 hectares, we also think that this interpretation can be done over a relatively short period of time. How fast does Social Democracy think this transformation of nature can happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161352	You have to be careful in this field to give firm guarantees, because you also have to be able to live up to it. I think I will say that I promise that it will go faster than the current government's roll-out of untouched forest. But then you haven't set the bar too high either. I would say that with regard to the part relating to the untouched forest, it is our ambition that with the 55 000 hectares that we want to build in forests that are currently state owned, it will be possible to do so relatively quickly. There is a question of designation. Compared with the last 20 000 hectares up to the 75 000 hectares that are the target and where this is to be done in the private part, it is clear that it will go slower, and that is an economic concern. In relation to the wild nature parks, it is, of course, a matter of finding these lands, and we will get to work on this quickly, but also in view of the concern that came from the bourgeois rapporteurs before, which I think is real, it is important that we roll it out at a pace so that the private people who live in the areas, the municipal stakeholders, can join in, so that we get everyone on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161453	Thank you. Then it's Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161456	Thank you. Now I actually got an answer to some of that, but first of all I would just like to praise the Social Democrat rapporteur for standing and speaking nature in a very inspiring and pleasing way, and it is a good thing to hear following on from this proposal. Then I would like to ask whether social democracy can envisage improvements to national parks when it comes to nature. And what improvements could be made in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161528	First of all, thank you very much for your kind words. I think it shows that there is something here that the opposition is going to have if we were to get support to create a more green Denmark that really can make a difference in relation to. You can almost look forward to an upcoming parliamentary election, considering what we could do together in a more green and ambitious constellation and majority if the Danes will support us in it. I am glad about the question of our ambitions for national parks, because I did not quite get to grips with it in the context of Mr Beazley's report. Christian Poll's question. But yes, I think we must have higher ambitions for the nature content of our national parks. I think our national parks are doing great, and I have soon visited them all and think it's fantastic places, in terms of tourism, outdoor life and nature, but we can do more. That is why we were also very strongly opposed to the fact that the present government would disenfranchise many thousands of hectares, among others. within our national parks. So we can easily have high ambitions for our nature in national parks. I just think it is unrealistic to imagine that they will all be able to fully and completely meet the very high demands of the international name for national parks so quickly, because they contain so many private areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161645	Thank you. Julius Graakjær Grantzau.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161648	Thank you. I would just like to say that I do not know so much about the Social Democrat's agricultural policy that an idea could be to think forestry into greater biodiversity, etc. There I would just like to invite the rapporteur to one of the first forest farms set up directly with one of my neighbours in the mountains of the Mol National Park. So you can see that as an inspiration to a way of converting some of the actually cultivated land into much more nature, while at the same time cultivating really efficiently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161726	Well, I would like that very much, and I think that forestry and conversion to ecology, which are some of the tools you can use, and also land-exchange reforms, which are especially about how to develop nature within our national parks, are interesting. It is interesting how, in dialogue with the pilots in this area, we can ensure that the farming that is there is carried out with due regard for the natural interests. And that is what we have achieved with the national parks, and I share the Minister's view at the outset. One of the things we have experienced with national parks is that in several places local pilot owners and farmers actually go into the projects and experience that they are getting something out of being part of the national park. And that's exactly what I think we should be protecting and watching out for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161813	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen and passes the baton on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161824	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the proposal is to improve the quality of nature in Denmark's national parks. In the Danish People's Party we are not in favour of supporting the proposal. One of the things we were very concerned about when we made the National Parks Act and also agreed to the National Parks Agreement was precisely that it was voluntary for landowners to participate in it. I do not think that we should go in and change those conditions. It is up to the landowners if they want to give a boost where they can do it themselves. Some people do, and I'm glad if they do. But we in the Danish People's Party are not prepared to suddenly change the rules, now that we have established the five national parks. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161916	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404161918	Thank you. Now, when the rapporteur mentioned, I was a little shocked if we should not actually dismantle national parks, because if we want to put in more ambitions, there may be too much resistance. That's kind of how I understood it, anyway. However, I would just like to say that it is very important to understand that those who work with national parks and those who live near them and use them at all are extremely fond of them, but I also hear from the many people that they wonder that you can have intensive forestry, intensive agriculture with pesticides, etc. inside these areas. Internationally, then, you do something else. When you talk national parks abroad, it's quite different. So the rapporteur thinks: should we let them or should we put more nature into them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162018	I can say neither, it was also an option. No, I don't think we should shut them down, so we agreed to have these five national parks set up. I was there when the Land of the Skjoldungs was made, I lived in Frederikssund at the time, and I was very concerned that the National Park came, and I helped make the decision about the Northern Zealand of the Kings, which was the last national park. The reason I asked the question and then I'm sorry if Mr. Christian Poll has misunderstood it is a bit that the minister told me that they were making an evaluation, and to me it seems as if the result of that evaluation could only go in one direction, and then it doesn't matter to do an evaluation. If you already know which way to go, then you can just go that way, and that was a little my point in asking the Minister the question: if the evaluation shows that it makes no sense at all to have national parks, we might as well just close them down. Actually, that's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162115	Thank you. Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162118	Yeah, I can see that that's how it works. I think that an evaluation is much more detailed, and I really expect that this evaluation will include the desire to have a higher quality of nature in the area, because that is what I hear our various actors around the national parks talking about. Of course it is especially the nature-interested, it can be bird-watchers, it can be biologists, and it can be anglers, there are many who are interested in getting a higher quality. And then it's interesting to talk about how we get there, how we get that promise to it. It's gonna be an interesting conversation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162156	Of course it's gonna be an interesting conversation. So, the Danish People's Party is certainly not opposed to higher natural quality. Why would we be? Nor are we against clean air or cleaner environments. Well, who is it? But I would also like to say that we have a reasonably realistic approach to this, and we actually believe that Denmark is a cultural landscape, where we therefore have some cultivation, where we have some forestry, which is certainly also good, and I believe that. Now I am the daughter of a forest bailiff, I grew up in the woods, I think the forest is wonderful, also the forest that has been cultivated. I just want to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162235	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162238	Thank you. I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not see that there is some kind of false trade name in calling an area a national park if there are no stricter requirements for nature protection in order to ensure that you can see that you are now in a national park and not outside a national park. Is it not also an important part of Danish national understanding that one can say that if we have a national park, it is quite different guidelines that apply there and that it is precisely in order to show the unique nature that we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162312	I can see that one can misunderstand it, but then we should not have set up the national parks we have set up. Then we should have done something completely different, and we haven't done that. After all, we have just made a law establishing how national parks operate in Denmark, and if it is to be different, we must do so in another way, but then it will also be smaller areas, because then I would say that we will have a tremendous problem with regard to the Land of the National Park of Skjoldungs or the Northern Zealand of the Kings, and then the two national parks are largely gone if you want to have what I think Mr. Peder Hvelplund would like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162343	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162345	Now it is not because we have large areas of nature in Denmark, so it can be said that when we then designate areas as specific national parks, it should be possible to reflect itself in the way that, when you move into them, you can see that it is a national park. That is why I would like to ask again whether it is not a form of false sales description if you do not immediately see that you are in a national park?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162408	Well, I don't know if there is a definition in some dictionary of what a national park is, but we have at least made a definition in Danish legislation. Then it is possible that you think it has to be something else, and that is fair enough, and then you can do it somehow, but I just believe that if you want to do it, as Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten and Alternativet will, so we don't have five national parks in Denmark then we get something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162436	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen. The next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162444	Thank you. And thank you to the alternative for raising the resolution in this Chamber today, where we can then have a talk about national parks. Yes, the Danish nature and biodiversity are under pressure, and we in the Left actually take this very seriously. And for this reason, we have actually also taken the initiative for a great many different good initiatives, which should help not only improve the Danish nature but also provide more biodiversity. And to mention just a few, we have among other things. ensured greater biodiversity with more untouched forest for the benefit of plant and animal life. In addition, at the same time, we have also ensured better access to nature through the nature package that we have agreed on. As has already been said, a number of parties back in 2007 helped to create a common law on our national parks. And it is actually the case that I think that the five national parks we have here in Denmark are fantastic. And I have to say, I enjoy visiting them myself. In the Left, too, we believe that national parks continue to meet the objectives set out in the law. It is the case that a closer investigation is under way right now, and we will then have to meet across the parties again and discuss the matter when we have the results of it. But I must say that I believe that national parks continue to develop a coherent nature and, for that matter, open-air life in this country. That is why we must say with sadness to the alternative that the Left will not support the resolution here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162641	Then Mr. Christian Poll it anyway. Otherwise, it would also be a breach of the series of questions from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162651	Thank you. I just thought I'd like to know if it doesn't have the character of a fake sales description. In other countries the natural areas have a somewhat different class, and when a tourist then comes to Denmark and parks his car by what he thought was a natural park, it turns out that there is conventional farming and intensive forestry. Does the rapporteur think that, after the evaluation here, we could meet to try to bring in a little more natural quality so that we can get closer to what people expect?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162731-2	I would like to acknowledge that we live in a small country, and sometimes I think that Mr. Christian Poll might have to move to a much larger country, where there were considerably more hectares to do well with. I can say that I am one of them. visited a national park in Vietnam last year and there we could drive for many hours before we reached one end to the other. I know you cannot do that in Denmark, but I have to say that as far as the five national parks we have are concerned, I am happy every time I visit one of them and I enjoy the fact that we have created them. Sometimes I think about what it really is, the alternative may also want to achieve, and does it then, frankly, require a larger country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162823	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162825	One of the things we would like to achieve is to turn the decline in biodiversity into a growth, and that would be natural if what one would think was the best nature, that is, a national park, was actually an excellent, free and wild nature, and that is why we want Danish nature to be given a boost, including in the national parks, also in the Natura 2000 areas, also in the Danish state forests. It just seems strange to us that, when there is the natural crisis, we cannot raise the quality of nature where it is to be expected to be high.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404162903-2	In fact, I think that is what we are doing. In fact, I think, both in relation to the nature package, which the Left has also helped to set in motion, and in relation to more untouched forest, etc., that it is some of the things that are also helping to lift nature. Then I would say that when I visited, among other things. The Vietnam National Park, I was glad that there was a sign when I drove in, because it was not the case that I automatically thought that I was now in a national park, because it was very similar to the nature that was also outside the national park. But when I passed the sign, just as when I passed the sign in front of the Wadden Sea National Park, I became aware that I was now in a national park, and then you might look a little extra in relation to what kind of a fantastic area you walk in and drive in. But I would say that even in Vietnam I wouldn't have been sure that I was driving in the national park if the sign hadn't been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163001	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163005	Thank you. I just want to ask you one thing, and it's actually in the wake of Mr. Christian Poll's question about whether the rapporteur does not think that there should be more excellent nature and more excellent, untouched nature it was so. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is only untouched nature that is excellent in the eyes of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163028	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163029	I can reply briefly to that: no, I do not think so. I actually believe that there are many, many different views on what is excellent. I can say that I enjoy nature every single day. I live in the middle of it and have a view of both forest and meadow, and I think that is excellent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163049	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's the Enhedslisten. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163059	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten would like to thank the alternative for raising this important debate on the lack of quality in our national parks. This is a subject which has over the years been very much included in the Enhedslisten, and we were also the only party that voted against the proposal for the National Park Act at the time when it was adopted, because we felt that it would lead to a definite devaluation of the concept of national park. From the outset, it was clear with the whole process of the National Park Act that the intention was that the establishment of national parks should not lead to a single requirement of nature and the environment, which had not been made in advance, and that any voluntary effort should be left to help nature, but otherwise agriculture and other production in the area should continue as before. The Enhedslisten therefore already tabled, back in 2007, in connection with the process of the National Park Act, an amendment to introduce international IUCN standards. In the Enhedslisten, we have been vocal ever since, with the current use of the national park concept, Denmark is undermining the international standards used by other countries when they use the term national park, and thus Denmark is helping to undermine the role of national parks globally. As the National Park Act is today, no further protection of nature is required in national parks than in other areas. That is what Parliament's natural political ambitions have been able to do, and we have to note that there was, and is not, a political majority who really wants to do something about biodiversity in these areas. That is fair enough, but calling the areas national parks is simply a false trade name. We think in the Enhedslisten, it is good that you strike some lines on a map and run some local profiling of an area. From a tourism perspective, there can be good rationale for this. But we must not call the areas national parks and then pretend that we are doing something extra for nature in these areas, when that is not the case. Instead of calling the areas tourist parks, it might be right to call them tourist parks. Because we can see, as we predicted and warned against throughout the process, that when we do not apply international standards to our national parks and do not require the restoration of nature in the areas, we end up becoming false sales names. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Takes National Park Thy, it may live up to what is understood by a national park internationally, but in the other national parks there is a great deal of international standards for what can be called a national park. So yes, the proposal from the Alternative is entirely in line with the policy for which Enhedslisten has fought hard since the first discussions on national parks in Denmark started, namely that the Danish National Park concept should be raised to international standards. And, as I said, the proposal is therefore fully in line with the previous proposals from the Enhedslisten as early as 2007. The Enhedslisten can therefore, of course, support the proposal. The Enhedslisten would like to supplement the proposal. In order for us to be able to meet the international standard, it will require that we make concrete demands in the legislation on the restoration of nature in national parks, including the requirement that natural areas should be better bound together, and that, for example, agricultural production must stop in areas, and that, for example, there must be an end to agricultural production. to be considered in recovery through rewilding in the areas. This means that, for example, there is a need for the Commission to take action in this area. to be released large grassers who can help create a more self-sustaining and wilder nature. In fact, we do not believe that the alternative proposal is sufficient in itself. The current national parks are not all located and designed most appropriately from a natural perspective and therefore do not provide sufficient protection of our nature. One proposal could be to work for the concept of the idea historian, debater and author Rune Engelbreth Larsen, namely the concept of national parks. He has traveled the kingdom to photograph and clarify where they could lie. National parks are based on one or more large, coherent natural areas that are starting to redeem or that, after a short period of time, are brought into a state to meet the IUCN Category II criteria. Rune Engelbreth Larsen has identified 35 areas that will be suitable for nature parks, because they are larger natural areas where there is already a great potential for nature. These are large and coherent areas or areas which could be linked together and which could give a wilder nature on a more natural basis. Here we will be able to re-issue, for example. wild horses, moose or bison and re-establish the conditions for a self-bearing nature that becomes a wilder and thus a more natural nature. Such land would rightly be designated national parks and would mark the difference from existing national parks with the false sales name. However, with regard to this resolution, which is about raising the quality of existing national parks, the Enhedslisten naturally supports the proposal, but, as I have said, we believe that we must lift the bar further and rethink the concept of the national park in order to get it back on the natural track seriously, for example. to establish national natural parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163620	Thank you. I just want to know if I understood it correctly, so that Enhedslisten, if they are allowed to decide, will put all the farming and forestry in the national parks that we have, and then say: You cannot have that; now there must be wild horses, wild bisons and elk out there. And then the rest of us just have to be there or move to Copenhagen or Aalborg, or whatever. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163649	Now it is the case that when you live in the countryside, like me. also does, then one learns to appreciate nature very much. And there you can only see that a very large part of the Danish area is already a cultural landscape that has been cultivated. Denmark is one of the countries in Europe whose area is most cultivated, and there it is clearly our ambition that we should have a larger area of land that is laid out for nature. And that means, by its very nature, that there should be no farming or forestry on those lands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163718	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163719	But what is the size of the area? Well, I'm asking because I just find it very difficult to understand both the Alternative and Enhedslisten when we talk about this. Because when you live in the countryside I do; I have forest in the backyard, but I also have Christmas tree plantations in front, which hopefully absorb a little CO2 So, what do you have ideas about in these large, coherent natural areas? It's something I just have a hard time imagining. We have a cultural landscape in Denmark. If we go back to what we once had, it should be swamp it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163804	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163805	Well, now it is not the case that nature fills up more than agriculture does. And if you look at how much of the land is now allocated to agriculture, it is often some land that is basically not productive. Then it was much better that we had nature on those lands. This would give both much more biodiversity and much more opportunity to exploit the natural values that exist in Denmark. So it is not because we have a lack of space compared to being able to have nature in Denmark. It is just a question of what political will we have or what nature view we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163833	There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163836	Thank you. We just need to get a grip on what Enhedslisten really means. Because, as I heard in the rapporteur's speech, more of these large wild animals were to be exposed in the existing national parks. Is it true that it is in the existing five national parks that we have to have more wild and large animals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163903	No, it's not necessarily. What I mentioned in the rapporteur's speech was also that, for example, it was not possible for the Commission to take a decision. Rune Engelbreth Larsen has been out identifying some areas in Denmark that were more suitable for planting to national parks than the existing national parks. So some of this could well be in some of the existing national parks, for example. National Park Thy, which is indeed a good example of something that meets the standards of national parks. But otherwise it could easily be in other areas and not necessarily in the areas that today make up national parks. What is crucial is that we ensure that where there are national parks there is also nature and that we there protect nature and strengthen biodiversity. It makes no sense to call a place where there is agriculture and forestry and petrol tanks, a national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163949	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404163950	I agree quite a lot that we must of course have nature in national parks, but I am only concerned if it is the case that Enhedslisten plans to throw the landlords out of the national parks, that is to say that farming in existing national parks cannot be driven forward. For that matter, I can also be concerned if you want to postpone, for example. Bison in the North Zealand of the Kings, for then there are at least some cities in those areas which are facing some challenges. That is what I would like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to confirm or deny.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164030	I do not think I quite understand that, because the fact that areas are laid out for nature does not mean that people cannot live there. Well, man can live in nature. Man is quite well off with that. What that means is that there are some very special restrictions in relation to protecting nature in terms of man's overexploitation of nature. And the fact that there is grazing bison doesn't mean they're walking around in the middle of the streets of North Zealand. It just means that the land is grazed off by bison, and there of course you do not grow grain or rape or maize or whatever you might come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164104	With that, we thank Mr. Peder Hvelplund. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164114	Thank you for that, President. B-94 on the increase in the quality of nature in Denmark's national parks: in my view, the motion for a resolution is based on an understandable misunderstanding which is understandable, because the proposers of the alternative are not part of the National Park Agreement and therefore do not know the background to it and therefore have a very easy way to misunderstand the purpose. Because the purpose of the Danish national parks is not exclusively nature conservation. In fact, the parks fulfil a number of other objectives, including the dissemination of cultural history, and there has been broad political support for this. There has also always been a political majority in favour of the foundations of the national parks on which they are based, namely voluntaryness, and that the status of the areas as a national park does not change the existing regulation. In other words, we have promised that landlords in national parks will not be subject to any new restrictions. There is now, I understand from the Minister, an evaluation of the National Park Act, and once that evaluation has been completed, there is, of course, a natural moment for new political discussions on the legal basis. We will wait with excitement in the Liberal Alliance, which is why we do not, of course, support the resolution here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164256	Thank you, and there is a comment from Mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164301	Yes, as the author of the motion, I am curious. The rapporteur calls it a misunderstanding, and that is really what I think it is, but it is at two different levels. Because I am well aware that the Danish national parks are invented and regulated by legislation, but it is also an international concept, and when you come and visit Denmark or you as a Dane are used to visiting national parks around the world, it is of course that you can be disappointed. You can have a different expectation from what you experience when you come to a Danish national park, and when, at the same time, we have this great task of turning the decline in biodiversity to progress, it would, in our view, be natural for you to tackle what you should have the highest expectation of, namely our national parks, and then give it a shell there. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks after this evaluation? Will you go a little to the steel and try to get more ambition into the national parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164414	Thank you for the question. As a starting point, I have a very open approach to future political discussions on the national park legal basis. Who knows, it may be to avoid future misunderstandings and disappointments among both present parliamentary politicians and other visitors in national parks around us that we have to discuss naming. Now I could hear a former rapporteur inventing the name of natural parks or at least mentioning it as an opportunity for land other than the specific national parks, and I would not deny that that would be a good idea. Whether we have chosen to call it a national cultural park or something else in the name here instead of having chosen to call it a national cultural park or something else, because we agree with that, at least I am, and as other rapporteurs have also said, that Denmark is a cultural landscape far along the way, I do not know, but perhaps we should have introduced that on the signs that are around the landscape and that advertise our national parks, there is: Sorry if you are disappointed, or something like that. It could also be part of it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164531	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. It was so clear an answer that there was no reason to ask again. Mrs. Ida Auken, the Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164541	Thank you very much. Today we are having a discussion about whether we should have more nature into national parks, and I think I will start somewhere else. For Radicals, the alternative is that there should be more nature in Denmark. There must be more natural quality throughout the country wherever it makes sense. We also understand very well that the concept of national park here does not at least match the international concepts, but we have also been in the agreements farther back and it was because we had the hope that by bringing together some of these things and focusing this focus we could also show the landowners and the farmers who were in the area that there could be a purpose in strengthening nature, that we could prioritise some of the means of set-aside, natural resources that we have, within some of the national parks, and have a greater coherence. We may think that in the debate about trying to save the existing national parks and making them the great nature reserves, we may not get very far, even because everyone who has been involved in this has also helped to reassure farmers that there will be no legislation sneaking in by the back door, and there you have to stand by your word when you say that this is not what is in the national parks. Then you can't come back and put another purpose down. So we would rather go another way, and therefore we have proposed to make ten nature reserves in Denmark, and the escapes mentioned by Enhedslisten, also with Rune Engelbreth Larsen's natural national parks. We just want to call it nature reserves because the word reservation is so fine. It means that something is reserved, that something has first course. So we'd like to make some areas in Denmark where nature actually has the first right, and that's why we've pointed out ten places where you could start by making these nature reserves of over 10 km2. I can mention some of them here: Almindingen, Bistrup Forests, Gribskov, Harrild Hede, Hindemade, Melby and Wild Fences, Mountains of Mol, Rold Forest, Rebild Trays, Straw Lake and Wind Hede and Tranum. These are the ten places we have suggested that you go in and see if you can create some coherent natural areas where nature has simply the first right. So we should also look at all the other areas we have in Denmark: Where can we get nature? I personally believe that we must include farmers and pilot owners in the exercise, because they will be the natural carers. They are the ones who have many of these lands and they need to be included, so we also need to think about the incentives we give to farmers to make nature. That is why Radicals have proposed that we make a large-scale plan for the Danish agricultural country, where we take one third of the land out of intensive farming. That means they don't have to be plowed. You can do other things on them. You can have tourism, you can have hunting, there can be a lot of fishing involved, there can be haydog, there can be cultivation of biofuels • other things that can make sense. However, there will also be a great many of these areas which can benefit from nature, and we will do so by redeploying agricultural aid funds. About a billion. kr. We're just gonna spend a year making this take, and it's a pretty big plan we're gonna do. In fact, over the next 10 years we will find areas on which we have to work, which are up to four times Bornholm's size, and up to 2050 we believe that we can do something else on land that is equal to twice Funen. That is because today we have an agriculture in crisis. There is a three-digit billion debt, there are more farmers over 70 years of age than under 40 years of age. I think there are almost twice as many farmers over 70 years of age as under 40 years of age. There are simply no young people who want to go into this profession and think new and think green and think new purposes and new ways of making money. And one of the things we can usefully help young farmers to focus on is to make nature and ensure that it can also be profitable, that it can become a way of living for them, and that is why we will go a little different than the alternative, even though we share the amazement that an international concept has been used and that has always been the problem around these national parks and we share the desire for more nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404164959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165001	Thank you. What a lot of ambition we hear today with nature. I'm really happy about that. First it was once Bornholm, and here we are four times Bornholm. It's very exciting. In order to return to the national parks, I think that once we have this evaluation, we could renegotiate, and what I think we might be able to do was to look at the borders of the national parks and go to the landlords and say: you can stay in the national park and then make some sort of transition to nature, or we move the border, so you'll be outside. Could it not be a relevant debate in a process where we say that we are now adjusting and seeing what can be done because we want a high quality of nature in what we call national parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165049	Now I don't know if Mr. Christian Poll as a child has been exposed to some of the things called the Rorschachtesten, but that's probably a lot of other people who have to look at a lot of spots and then try to say what it imagines. Then it may look like a face, or whatever you have of performances inside your head. I would say that if we did that exercise on the current national parks, I think they would really become meaningless. I think they would simply look like the weirdest Rorschachtest, and one really had to tighten up to say that there is a national park here, and as Mrs Pia Adelsteen and others have pointed out, it is if one completely followed the otherwise very good intention of the alternative for proposals, i.e. almost train stations which one cannot get to, in Hillerød, and one cannot drive in. Well, we also need to hit a place where what we're doing instead makes sense. So instead of transforming the current national parks into Rorschachtests, I believe more in going out and making some real nature reserves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165146	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165148	But the Danish nature is very divided, and I think that it will also apply to some of the land that Radicals have in mind, i.e. that it can be difficult to collect them. So it's spots of nature that we have around, and when we, for example. Looking at untouched forest, it's even smaller: tiny spots around. So it is probably a general problem that we have in Denmark that there are two-thirds of our land and that we have to have nature adapted, and there we have to let it develop slightly into, for example. agricultural land, e.g. In the national parks too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165226	Yeah, that's right. That's why we made the Green Denmark Card with the previous government: to try to get more coherence and more space for the natural areas and have a thinking about where we want this nature and where it makes the most sense. I am thinking of a map of Denmark, which looks at the areas which are today, for example. are low-level areas, which are not much of a farmer, and many of them do not necessarily lie in national parks. So to get more nature in Denmark I think we should do the big exercise on the whole agricultural land, the whole area, and not necessarily just on the national parks. Then I would say that one of the nature reserves I mentioned was the Mountains of Mol. So you could actually have a nature reserve inside the national park. At least you know where to point the signs to those who are interested in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165311	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165313	Thank you. I think it is very positive to hear the rapporteur talk about these nature reserves. Whether we call them national parks or nature reserves can be awesome. Finally, the rapporteur said a little about the fact that a nature reserve could, in principle, be situated in a national park. But will the Radicals help us to make stricter demands on existing national parks today? There must still be a difference between whether you are in a national park or a nature reserve or in a national park or whether you are outside. So will the Radicals help us to make increased demands? Perhaps this could mean that some of the most pointless areas were then taken out of the national parks and that they were said not to be part of it, but if they are located in a national park, there are more stringent requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165405-2	It's an exciting thought that you go the other way and say that we start with the natural parts that are in these national parks, and then you go out if you don't want to do anything. We might be able to discuss this, but to go into an agreement we have made and where we have persuaded a great many pilots and very many municipalities to join, and then change the conditions, is simply bad style. Well, we've been in the same place as Enhedslisten, the whole process, but we've also gone in and made the deal to get a focus on nature. Now I was up at National Park Thy, where farmers can actually start to see that there is a huge advantage in having natural land and producing and living with them. They actually convinced a number of farmers from the North Zealand National Park that it can be beneficial for them to focus more on nature. If you then go out and cheat them by changing the rules when you have stood and said that there is no difference, then I do not think you are a responsible politician. It's simply to stand by my word, even though I kind of share the desire to have a lot more nature, including inside these parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165508	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165509	Yes, it is also a bit because it is a bottom-up agenda that we have. I think that sometimes we should also be careful that we keep making it sound like nature is something we pull down over people's heads. As the rapporteur himself said, it is actually very much appreciated in some of the places where it has been a difficult process, but where it has succeeded. It might well be that this was the process that had to continue by bringing in new demands. It may then become even easier to implement it, because it is, of course, a bottom-up task in terms of protecting biodiversity and strengthening biodiversity. It is necessary that we do something, even if it is a little difficult, but I just think that this was a possible way to go and that people eventually find out that it is actually very nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165548	I am tempted to say that right here, Radicals are perhaps a little more ambitious than Enhedslisten, because we will not only be content with the land in the national parks. We will actually try to see how we can get nature throughout Denmark. 60% of Denmark is today under plow. It's very intensive. If we can get one third of it and a large part of it can become nature, then it is a much, much bigger exercise than going into the individual national parks. So there must be nature reserves and a big set-up plan before we give ourselves to save a concept for tourists!
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165620	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404165627	Thank you. I got completely flashback to my time as a psychologist, where I've been sitting with Rorschachtests, and I would say that most of the ink blots I know are actually more coherent than any of the national parks we've got at least the one we have up in North Zealand. So that's actually a very good picture of it. In the SF, we very much agree with the intention of this resolution to create a more coherent nature. For many years nature has had a difficult situation in Denmark, and this has led to a major decline in Danish biodiversity, and it is absolutely true that it is a bottom-up task that we have. Nature has an invaluable value in itself, and there are also many other reasons to protect Danish nature and biodiversity. As the alternative itself points out in the motion for a resolution, large and coherent natural areas are the best way to ensure and strengthen Danish biodiversity. There is no doubt about that, and that is why it is also a great wish of the SF that we will actually create these great and coherent natural areas, but in relation to this we do not believe that this motion for a resolution hits the mark in creating these vast and coherent natural areas. Rather than focusing narrowly on existing national parks, we in the SF believe that the solution must be found by focusing both within and outside the existing national parks, and that is what has been said a little here today, namely that if you imagine that you have some sort of quantity, you also have some common quantities, because some of it is clapping over each other. After all, we also have Natura 2000 areas within national parks which have their special protection. We have protected areas within national parks, and we also have some outside. So that's really the thing about trying to find out where there are quantities and common quantities that can meet. We need to ensure that more areas are classified into nature in total terms. More of our nature must be allowed to remain untouched so that we can have more wild nature with high biodiversity, and then we must create some more green corridors between the existing natural areas. So more nature, more wild nature and more coherent nature. We therefore also believe in SF that we should not allow ourselves to be restricted by these existing national parks, but instead look at Denmark completely and then investigate how we ensure biodiversity best, also because nature can contribute to several purposes ranging from climate to culture to biodiversity. In some places it makes sense that the different purposes and interests are combined, sometimes it does not. If it makes sense to combine the different interests of the existing national parks and instead to set aside untouched forests elsewhere, we of course believe that this is what we should do, rather than forcing all existing national parks to focus exclusively on wild nature and biodiversity. In addition, we in the SF believe that we should not allow ourselves to be restricted by the traditional focus on land. We must also safeguard our marine environment, and there the rapporteur for the Alternative and I have just had an exciting evening of debate, because we could try to begin to expand our thoughts on biodiversity and nature reserves, or whatever we would call them, to what is going on at sea. There is a great need for this, and the solutions must therefore also be found on many fronts, but an obvious possibility, which is related to this motion for a resolution, is to make the northern Øresund an internationally protected area. National parks fulfilling international obligations can therefore be an excellent tool, but we do not believe in SF that this should be a requirement for the existing national parks we have. The SF cannot therefore support this motion for a resolution, but, as I said, we are very much in agreement with the intentions of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170032	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments. And the next is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170045	Thank you. After all, I was just waiting for Mr. Knox to come in. Christian Poll had to ask his question, so I was completely surprised that it was already my turn. However, I would like to thank the alternative for tabling this motion for a resolution which is being discussed today. I think I am a little like the raisin at the end of the sausage, compared with the fact that most of the arguments have gradually been reversed in this case. There have been many good speeches, questions and answers back and forth that I have been able to follow through Parliament's television. In the Conservative People's Party, we cannot support this resolution, which may not come as a surprise. I myself have been a very warm advocate of the national park we have got in the North Zealand of the Kings. A large number of municipalities were in favour of this, and they really pushed for this national park, partly for the sake of nature and partly because there was some tourism potential in it. It helped create a common story; there was cultural history in it compared to the fact that it was the kings' northern Zealand with parforce hunting etc. But it was just difficult for the municipalities to get enough landowners along, and it has taken many years to convince enough landowners that it was a good idea. We have been skipping it several times, because it simply could not be done getting enough landowners. And what we heard from the mayors, who were also out to meet the pilots to ask why they didn't want to go, was that they said: We're just worried about what it means; it may well be you say that right now and here it doesn't mean restrictions on our land, but we're afraid of what it means in 5 years what it means in 7 years. And there they were reassured that it wouldn't matter. That is why we would be delivering a huge political failure if we went in and changed it. Then you'd have to break it all up and start over. It is not possible to do so within the present, because people have agreed to it under some other conditions. I fear that it would make it very, very difficult to make large nature projects in Denmark forward-looking, because it would break confidence in us politicians. And that is why we cannot support the proposal here, which calls for there to be no cities or farms in these national parks. There has been a lot of talk today about the physical demarcation of a national park: when do you get the feeling that it is now that you are driving into a national park? I have also been to some of the internationally recognised national parks around the world, and it is therefore not the case that this is quite obvious to you when you are on one side and on the other side of the sign. There you are also informed about what it is within the national park you want to experience, what it is specifically for some natural experiences you want within the national park. And you have to do the same today if you want to visit, for example, the North Zealand of the Kings or one of the other national parks; then you have to inform yourself in advance where it is that the natural qualities are within the area. In fact, I also think that Mrs Ida Auken was very sharp about the fact that we have a political responsibility to live up to the conditions which originally formed the basis of this agreement. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Poll. Mette Abildgaard That's not true! It's gonna come as a surprise. )
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170407	I have also followed and seen the Kings' North Zealand when it was appointed, and I am thinking precisely, as Mrs Trine Torp also said, that it is a patchwork blanket. If you look at it on a map, you think: Where is nature? Well, there's a little climb there and there, but most of it's almost field and city. And even inside the forests and the natural areas where you think it should be, there is also intensive forestry in the vast majority of it. And there's what I'm wondering if it's not a strange experience for a tourist or for someone who's interested in nature to come to Denmark and say that now we're going to this national park, and then it's really a patchwork of small forest blunders where there's intensive forestry. And what could be done in the tail of the evaluation which is apparently under way? What does the rapporteur think can be done with this evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170505	I am simply not in a position to answer what to do with an evaluation I have not yet read. I think I have to say that we have to start reading the evaluation and then we have to discuss it. I fully agree that this is a very fragmented picture, particularly in the northern Zealand of the kings. We are also well aware that it is also too fragmented. That is why there is also an ambition in the text of the agreement that is behind it to continue to try to tie the national park better together by bringing more landowners with us, but we will only get that, if there is security, in relation to the requirements that go with it in the long term, when you become part of a national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170545	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170547	Is the national park just a tourist park or a cultural park, or what should you really call it? And what is the rapporteur's and the rapporteur's party's ambition to reverse the decline in biodiversity? Is that something that has to happen in national parks too? How do we get that process beyond the ramp?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170610	I will have a hard time explaining in 30 seconds how we can correct biodiversity. However, I would like to say that I think it is a relevant debate to take today, and I would like to thank the alternative for that. In the Conservative People's Party, we are also thinking about several nature reserves, natural parks, and what we might call it. Little Wildmose is a good example of a natural area where there is actually not much habitation, virtually nothing, and where one could easily consider allowing nature to be given greater choice. So we will be able to discuss some more natural-heavy setups, but it must be based on something new and not in existing national parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170645	With that we thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard. And then we leave room for the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170655	Thank you. I have been in a number of national parks around Europe and also in the United States once and have spent much of my holiday time hiking in such parks. And I think it's pretty amazing that you can go around and you can prepare and read about the national parks and find out what's of special nature here and here, and look for it and have some great natural experiences. That's one of the things I spend and that I and my family spend a lot of time on when we leave. That is why it is almost a little shameful for me, so when I get visitors and people ask if we should see a Danish national park, I cannot say unequivocally: Yes, let us go to the North Zealand of the Kings and see the wildest. I will often take them along the coasts of Denmark or to very special points where I know there can be nice views and beautiful nature. But this, like saying that we are going to Denmark's National Park up here in North Zealand and experiencing a lot of coherent and wild nature, is therefore hard to say to guests. There's what I'd like to see when we've appointed the national parks, and now that we've been working with these national parks for a number of years, we're going to set ourselves some goals, so we're going to say: yes, now we've appointed national parks, and let's make a plan that in two years' time this will happen, and in three years' time this, and in four years' time this. And, overall, in 10-15 years, we have something that can really be said to be a national park. And that is what we have as a proposal in the Parliamentary Chamber here today. I welcome the debate because it has actually shown that a great many parties are interested in creating much more wilder nature in Denmark, and that is the main point. That is the overall point; it is about turning the decline in biodiversity into progress. And there are so different bids, especially from the opposition parties, on how we can create more wilder nature, where it should happen, in what ways, what we should call it, etc. etc. From the governing parties and from the Danish People's Party I hear no such strong ambition that we should have much wilder national parks or much more wilder nature, and it is of course a bit disappointing. However, I would like to welcome the fact that, from the entire opposition side, we have heard many different ambitious proposals that we should have much more wilder nature in Denmark. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170949	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404170953	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and, to that extent, thank you for tabling the motion for a resolution, although I must admit that I think it tends a tiny bit to be a waste of time in that there is, of course, a very broad political majority on precisely these elements, and when we talk about national park legislation and so on. And then I will hurry to say as a follow-up to the rapporteur's speech that I have suffered pity for Mr. Christian Poll, when he has to bring these guests out to look at the Danish national parks, because I really do think it is a pity that one should feel a little guilty. But the fact that it should actually mean that a motion for a resolution has to be tabled in the Assembly, maybe I think it should be drawn a little bit. In other debates earlier today, we have also, in connection with another motion for a resolution, also tabled by the Alternative, just as we have just been in and round something with economics and finance. After all, I am a liberal member of parliament, and I like economics and finance, and that is also true of what we are doing, and I have said in the past that the alternative has a whole party parade of all kinds and impossible good proposals, but that the funding seems to me to lag a little behind. We used to talk about the North Sea, and there were several hundred billion kroner missing on the bottom line somewhere to finance it. This is hardly a case of hundreds of billions, and yet, I would say, and yet, because there is a whole lot of privately owned land in these national parks, which we have to understand now, of course, be converted to nature or which, at least in some way, must be protected, and this will lead to the need for some form of compensation, but where should the funding for this come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171133	Thank you. After all, this is about making plans, and it will be completely individual for the different national parks that we have today, what is needed. It may well be that for some land there will be a need to simply buy out some landowners, I imagine. It may also be possible to enter into agreements with the landowners that you do some kind of extensive operation, that you do other activities, or that you exchange land in some land-sharing exercises. So at this point, and with the structure of the proposal, it is not possible to put real amounts on which we ask more about a process and an objective that should be worked on in Danish national parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171223	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171224	Yes, I know that in the alternative we are very concerned about the process, we have to sit together and everything else, and the rapporteur himself says that it is difficult to set the amount. Yeah, it's hard to put money on, but it's also some big amounts we're talking about here. Just like that, with a punch on the bag, the alternative today, with its resolutions, has used somewhere in the vicinity, we have to guess, and I'm just guessing in round numbers, 150-250 billion. kr.; i.e. 150-250 billion. kr. Come on! Now that we spend our time here in Parliament on this, at least try to tell me how just some
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171305	Sir. Christian Poll, the opportunity is there now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171306	Thank you. After all, we have a government programme in which we come around both nature and climate and a number of other issues that are fully funded. So we have an overview of our economy on the government programme we have presented. If we then have such a series of proposals in this Chamber, some of them have the character of wanting plans to be made when you have a national park for you to have more nature. That cannot be financed in advance. And we also have this one by stopping the exploration of oil and gas in the North Sea, which also has very long prospects with very, very uncertain figures. So, overall, I would say: in our government programme we have good offers of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171353	So comforted. No one else has asked for the floor and the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171408	We are opening the debate with the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171430	Thank you for that, President. The alternative, with its next proposal, B 107, has proposed that the government be required to manage state forest with biodiversity and open air life as its sole purpose and without revenue from the production of timber and chips. In other words, the alternative will stop forestry in the forests of the state and leave the forests untouched. Again, I will withdraw the excitement from my speech. I hope you will listen to it anyway by saying that the government rejects the proposal from the Alternative, but I would also like to justify it. As a starting point, I agree with the alternative that we should take the lead on the land of the state in terms of nature, and that is also true in the state forests, and so does the government. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have carried out the historically largest designation of untouched forest and other biodiversity forest in state forests. A total of 13,800 new acres. But back to why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution: the income that the Nature Agency actually has on wood production is estimated to be in the order of 90-100 million. kr. a year. It is also a kind of money at the end of the month, and it is money that is currently being spent on what the alternative will promote with the proposal, namely open-air life and nature care on state land. And this 90-100 million. kr. a year is the total loss of revenue for the Danish Nature Agency. In addition, the cost of nature care in untouched forests will be around 60 million. kr. a year. And so it will be quite a lot of money that has to be found elsewhere. In addition, a production stop in the state's forests will hit companies in the Danish timber industry quite widely and they will be forced to import more raw wood. It can be expensive, as wood is expensive to transport. The Danish Nature Agency is the only significant Danish supplier of FSC certified raw wood in Denmark, and there are Danish companies that are deeply dependent on supplies of sustainable wood from state forests. Denmark also has many less decentralised heating plants, which are mainly supplied with chips from local state forests, for example. on Læsø, where the Danish Nature Agency owns most of the forests and delivers almost the entire supply of the heating plant. Finally, the construction of untouched forests has implications for the contribution of state forests to climate action. There are researchers at the University of Copenhagen who estimate that untouched forest does not absorb carbon as effectively as a continued natural forest management. Finally, I have to conclude that, although this is, as a starting point, a sympathetic proposal, it is perhaps also a somewhat remote proposal from the world, because the consequences of this have not been fully thought out, and here I am not just talking about the lost income on forestry. However, I would like to come to a meeting because I have a great deal of sympathy for parts of this proposal. So I would like to meet the alternative by offering to carry out a service review of the Danish Nature Agency's forestry operations, in the same way as I have initiated a service review of the operation on the Danish Nature Agency's light open areas. Because in this way we will ensure that all the consequences are highlighted and that we have a fully informed basis for any decisions. As I said, I think the state should take the lead. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171811	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171817	I'll try to be brief. What is obvious with the forests of the state is that we hear from biodiversity researchers, for example. be Carsten Rahbek, but several agree that the easiest and simplest step to reverse the decline in biodiversity to a recovery is to stop logging, timber production, in state forests. This means that we can simply free nature from our common land, and that is only one fifth of our forests in Denmark. That means that we still have four fifths, that is 80%. of the forests, back to producing timber, namely the private forests. So I would like to know whether the Minister has other plans to turn the decline in biodiversity to progress just as quickly and equally cheaply. For me, this sounds like an obvious grip on that task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404171916	That is also why I am expressing sympathy for parts of the proposal and offering this service, because I see many positive aspects of it. I just have to say that there are many Danish companies, Danish furniture classics, which are produced with FSC-certified wood, and that is what you get from the state's forests. The other forests are not FSC certified in the same way as the state is. It is, of course, a challenge that can be solved in other ways. So there's also this thing about the income from this forestry operation, which means that the money has to be found somewhere else. And now I heard the exchange of words between Mr. Carsten Bach and Mr. Christian Poll before about this, and I can see that 100 million. kr. is in the petty department compared to the incredibly large billions you were juggling with before. That doesn't change the fact that the money has to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172005	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172006	FSC and the wood industry, yes, and I have also been in dialogue with them, and I know there is concern out there. But the thing is that you could get a lot of the private forests FSC certified quite quickly, especially if you push a little on that development and perhaps the minister could consider that. It is not the case that we want to shut down timber production in Denmark. There's still 80% of it. of the forests back to the timber production. What we just need, if we ask the scientists, is 75,000 hectares. Will the Minister begin by placing 75,000 hectares of the Danish state forests for biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172047	I've laid out 13,800 ha of untouched forest and other biodiversity forest. It is actually quite historic, excuse the use of the slightly squandered concept, but it is, in fact, the largest interpretation of untouched forest and other biodiversity ever made by any government. I am quite happy to go along with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172113	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172114	Now the Minister himself says it is historic. That's right. One might say that the government is shining on a relatively cheap background, but rightly so: it is true that this government has done more than the previous government has done in relation to planting untouched forests. But it is still the case that we have 624,000 hectares of forest in Denmark, and with the government's plan, the Nature Package, 16,700 hectares are being planned, so we end up at 19,700 hectares in 2065. That is to say, by 2065 3.2% will be. of the forest area be laid out for untouched forest, so it is not, of course, because it is the entire forest area that will then be used for untouched forest. But that really means that, in 47 years' time, wild animals and plants will get 0.3 per cent. more of Denmark to fuck with. Although the Minister now says it is historic, does the Minister not think that there would be room for improvement, after all, in relation to securing more untouched forests in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172221	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172222	There's always room for improvement. There is also so much room for improvement in myself and in our way of doing this. The figures mentioned by the rapporteur are not in my mind for obvious reasons. And I would like to say that I am very fond of forests, I am very fond of untouched forests and biodiversity forests, but that is not the only thing we have forests for. And I do not believe that this is the only purpose that forests must achieve, namely to be untouched forests. Biodiversity is important, but there are other considerations too: recreational considerations, climate considerations and wood production, which I think we should keep in mind. So my satisfaction at these 13,800 hectares is not being tampered with by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172310	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172312	I do not imagine that either, but I just think that we now have researchers who produce a report that clearly says that we need to raise the level of ambition and at least have a minimum of 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. After all, we can continue to talk about biodiversity being important, but if we do not put concrete action behind it, then it will be a little hollow. I mean, if we keep saying that well forest is nice, but that we have to use it to operate, then it doesn't strengthen biodiversity. Does the Minister not agree that if we are to achieve those goals in terms of biodiversity, we need to increase it and make stronger efforts in relation to what we are doing today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172355	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172356	I can assure you that the government does this, both in the form of plantings of more untouched forests than ever before, and in the form of its own efforts. As late as Monday I set fire to a tree in Dyrehaven north of Copenhagen... it's not something I would recommend to do in general... where we expanded Dyrehaven at Jægersborg Hegn by 25%. e.g. for biodiversity reasons. We are doing quite a lot for biodiversity. I also have to say that if you just take 75,000 hectares of forest and pull it out, then the first cost is 4 billion. kr., and current annual costs will be 35 million. kr. It's sympathetic to mean this, but as long as you mean it without getting the money, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172442	With that, we can thank the Minister. We're gonna start with the rapporteur's line and start with Mr. Knox. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172458	Thank you. Also in the present proposal from the Alternative that state forests should be managed with biodiversity and open-air life in mind, there are very good tactics and thoughts. There is no doubt that biodiversity can be significantly and cheaply strengthened if we lay more forests untouched. In fact, researchers clearly say in the 2016 large forest report that we need 75,000 hectares of untouched forest in Denmark if we are to stop the decline in biodiversity associated with forest. So this is the cheapest and fastest way we can go if we want to stop the decline in biodiversity, what we do, of course. That is why, in our great green proposal from last spring, the Social Democratic Party has committed us to the 75,000 hectares of untouched forest in Denmark. 75,000 hectares of untouched forest must ensure that Denmark takes responsibility for stopping the so-called sixth mass extinction of species on earth that the planet is experiencing right now. It is a situation in which species die out up to 1,000 times faster than what is natural, and we will be able to help to stop this if we lay out more untouched forests. The aim of the social democracy is that half of all state forest equivalent to 55,000 hectares should be planted for untouched forest. In addition, in the long term, 20 000 hectares of private forest must also be laid aside for untouched forest either by swapping or buying private forest. It is extremely ambitious compared to what all previous governments have done, and also light years ahead of what the current government has done in this area. When we apply half of all state forest to untouched forest, it is all about the fact that we also want to see it and that is why we do not put it all out • that Denmark contributes to the production of wood, which is a sustainable material for the production of furniture and construction. We agree with the alternative and, I think, the rest of the opposition that the intention of this proposal is right: we must have more untouched forests in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172657	And that gave rise to a brief comment. Sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172701	Thank you and thank you for the contribution from the Social Democratic Party. And thank you for the description. Once again, it is very good intentions that are in the green line of social democracy, from whenever it is from. What I would like to ask you is what consideration it was that the Social Democracy and government partners took in the period from 2011 to 2015, where you sat in government and, of course, had the opportunity to set aside at least half of the state forest area for untouched forest, if you would have liked to. There must have been a consideration that has been taken since almost 500 hectares of forest were laid aside for untouched forests. So if the rapporteur would just explain what consideration has been given in the period from 2011 to 2015, when the government was in power.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172801	I always think it's a little pathetic, maybe a hard word, but very little potent... when government rapporteurs stand here five minutes in closed hours and have had the power and influence and the glory and the great cars and everything you have now, when you've sat in government 4 years minus 30 seconds, and then criticize Social Democracy for having done something or have done nothing or done anything other than what you want more than four years ago. It does not testify to such great self-confidence in relation to one's own project. I can say that the Social Democracy initiative is from May 2018 and that in that proposal we are presenting a huge boost to the area, a massive effort on untouched forests and therefore also a massive effort to strengthen biodiversity. And you just have to say, and I also think that the Liberal Alliance cares about this, which is how you get the most nature for the money... that there's bang for the buck in relation to untouched forest. There we really get a lot of biodiversity for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404172913	Thank you. But I did not get an answer as to what consideration it was the Social Democracy with government partners took in 2011 to 2015. And I can assure the Social Democrat rapporteur that I feel very potent just so that it is in place. I'm just wondering why nothing happened between 2011 and 2015. Why did the Social Democrats vote, why did the government not vote in favour of the resolution which the Blue Block tabled at the time and which the Liberal Alliance actually retabled in the short period that the Liberal Alliance was supporting the Left Government in its time, to make a great deal, in fact, of what the Social Democratic Party now wants, that is to say to do 20%. of the state forest area to untouched forest?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173005	Of course, the potent thing should be understood figuratively, and I am sorry if I stepped at a delicate point there. I'm sorry about that. In relation to the question, it is the case that we need more untouched forests in Denmark, and we have had that for many years. Scientists clearly say that this is where we need to take action if we want to strengthen biodiversity. I think the government has taken a step under the current regime, but I think it is going too slowly to roll it out. I think the ambitions are too small. But I recognise that one step is being taken. I think we just need to take bigger steps faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173050	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173052	Thank you. I was just a little interested in hearing about something. The Social Democrats and the SF's nature scheme envisages the construction of 75,000 hectares of untouched forest, but no time limit has been set. When do you imagine it would have happened? Is it by 2020, 2030 or by 2040, or when is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173119	Of course, you have to be careful there. But what I have said before is that for the 55 000 hectares to be allocated to public areas, that is to say of the 75 000 hectares, it is a matter of designation, so that it can be done relatively quickly. It is a question of finding the areas where it makes the most sense and where the forest has such quality that it can make a significant contribution to biodiversity as soon as possible. So it is a matter of a shorter number of years and as soon as possible. Compared to the last 20,000 hectares up to the 75,000 hectares in total in Denmark, we have to be realistic about how fast we can roll it out. It is clear that we cannot and will not buy 20,000 hectares of private forest and distribute it to untouched forests in just a few years' time, because it will simply be too expensive. So you have to find other ways of putting the last 20,000 hectares on the private land, and this can be done, for example, by swapping land which is currently owned by the community, with private areas and thus bringing it up to 75,000. It may be that you can buy something, it may be that you can think in schemes that can make it more attractive for forest owners to manage forests in a more natural way and perhaps even make it completely untouched. So there we have to be more creative because of course the economy sets limits. But with the first 55,000 hectares it can and must be done very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173255	Thank you. I did not really get an answer as to when this would happen, i.e. what the time horizon was. I also think that what is a little worrying is that the report by the researchers indicates that they have the reverse weighting of how much private space should be and how much state forest should be. Too far the greatest potential for getting biodiversity through untouched forests lies in private plantations. What scientists recommend is that it is 53,000 hectares that come from private and then only 22,000 hectares from state forests, and that is just to reach a minimum of 75,000 hectares. So do the Socialists not agree that we need to make an increased effort to ensure that it is also the areas where we get the most biodiversity and so that it remains in private forests?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173343	Well, I have noticed so widely that both scientists and also the green organisations were actually quite enthusiastic when we played out with our 75,000 hectares, because it is light years ahead of what the current government wants, and it is in all contexts historic to reach the 75,000 hectares. It is true, then, that it is essential that we find the right areas to be laid down, and that is also why I do not want to say 2, 3 or 4 years, but the part relating to the designation of publicly owned land can be done quickly, in other words very quickly; it is a question of designation. The second part will take a few more years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173420	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no more comments. Welcome to Mrs Pia Adelsteen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173431	Thank you so much. In relation to the proposal itself, which the Alternative has put forward to transform state forests into forests with biodiversity and open air life as the sole purpose and without any revenue from the production of timber and chips, I would say that we cannot support this in the Danish People's Party. I actually believe that we have the same basic positions as the Minister. Some revenue is needed, and wood production is also needed. I think a tree house is one of the most beautiful things you can get. And then I think that somewhere you have to produce wood. Having said that, I would like to say that I think the debates, when we have these forest debates or biodiversity debates, are sometimes a little weird, because it is very much divided up in that this government, with the support of the Danish People's Party, wants virtually nothing at all, whereas a red government wants everything. We are the blacks, and the opposition minus the Danish People's Party are the greens. And that's the discussion every time we have something about nature. I just have to say, I think I'm a little bit tiring. I think, too, if I may use sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen's words, it is pathetic that we are constantly being charged with being black because we do not just go all the way. I should like to refer here to the proposal made by Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach also touched on a few points: the resolution that we in the blue bloc, as we are called, actually tabled under the auspices of the Socialist Government, where Kirsten Brosbøl was the Minister for the Environment. Here we went in and said: Now we're going to put 20 per cent. of the state forests to untouched forest. Here we got a clear no from the whole red block because it would be far too expensive. There are about 100,000-110,000 ha of state forest. We said that 20%. was to be interpreted into untouched forest, and got a clear no, because it would cost too much. We had taken 20%. of income, as those from the state forests had said it would cost. We were told that we couldn't count at all. That's fair enough, too. But now I understand that, after they are not in government, but are now in opposition, the Socialists will suddenly put out 50%. of the state forests, i.e. 55,000 ha. I just have to say that time and again it is simply a policy of outbidding and then we are told, after we have spent the last 2-4 years laying out 13,500 hectares of forest for untouched forests, that we are the blacks. I think that's impressive. So despite the fact that there are some very good intentions in the proposal for more untouched forest, and despite the fact that the state forests must of course lead by example, there is some economy in this. At least we have learned this from Kirsten Brosbøl when she was Minister for the Environment. And then I hope that, in fact, it was true when it came from there, as well as what comes from the present Minister for the Environment, is true. So we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173749	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173754	Well, when the rapporteur says that about being a black party and something like that, I just have to say that I think we are facing a huge challenge. When we have researchers who say that it is absolutely necessary that we have some more untouched forest in relation to biodiversity, then the economic task is just a bottom-up task. Then we'll have to discuss how we do it. But to say that the task should not be solved, I think it is irresponsible. In other words, when there are clear research results that clearly show what this is going to mean for biodiversity not only in Denmark, but also globally, then we have to let it be a bottom-up task. And then the funding must be something we are discussing. We need to clarify how we do it. But we can't say we can't afford to save this because we won't find the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173841	But I didn't say we shouldn't lay more untouched woods. I just said that now we have at least started with 13,500 hectares. And I'd like to ask Mr. Peder Hvelplund, why a blue proposal was rejected when there was a government led by the Social Democrats, because that is what was done in the Enhedslisten. They said no. We could have started there too; it was just someone else who had to find the money, and then maybe it wasn't as important, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173909	Well, I just want to say that we in the Enhedslist are in any case ready to find the money. And I think that when we see the 2016 report, it is also about the way in which we get the most biodiversity, if we put something into private forests. I am fully in favour of spreading more into state forests, but we also have to do so in relation to private forests. And that may happen, it will be more expensive, but we will have to look at: where do we get the most biodiversity, where can it pay best, and where can we best restore the opportunity to have biodiversity? I hope that the Danish People's Party is willing to find the funding for it and recognise that what is the problem is that we should have at least 75,000 hectares of forest, of which 53,000 are private and the 22,000 are state. If we can agree on that, we can sit down and see if we can find the funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404173959	But I think it's a funny way to turn this discussion around. In other words, when it was the Socialist-led government that was here and we made a proposal, the Enhedslisten said no. There was nothing about the fact that we now have to sit and find funding, and at least there was nothing about my standing and saying: we are making a proposal, and now we think that Enhedslisten should find the funding. We wouldn't dream of that. Because we're not in a blue block like that. We usually find the funding ourselves in contrast to many of the Enhedslisten's proposals, as well as the Alternative's proposals. And then the two parties themselves may think that they have funding. I don't think you do. And I just want to say that we have taken a huge step in this reign in relation to untouched forest. And it is certainly not something that will cause us to be blamed for being a black party or someone who will do nothing for the environment and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174044	Thank you to Mrs Pia Adelsteen and warmly welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174051	Thank you. With the resolution here, the alternative would like to ensure that state forests are managed with biodiversity and open air life as their sole purpose and without income from the production of timber and chips. To be brief, I can say that the Left will not support the alternative proposal. In fact, we believe that we have done a great deal for nature, and it has also been listed here from the platform, how much we have just laid out for untouched forest. Let me say that I also share a little the frustration of the Danish People's Party when it comes to hearing that things are going too slowly and that even more can be done when we have actually been those who have taken a huge historic leap in recent years. And there it might be nice if there was also some recognition from perhaps some of the red parties, compared to that it was we who in this way set history in motion to plan more untouched forest. In fact, not everything is either black or white. It is often both-and-for-thought, even when you think of legislative proposals, and I have to say that among other things. The income generated by the use of state forests for timber, chips and so on also helps to ensure some of what the alternative actually points out in this resolution, in other words to ensure better opportunities for open-air life and also, for that matter, to spend extra money on safeguarding nature and biodiversity. All in all, we have to say that we will not be supporting the resolution, although, of course, there are also things in the proposal that are sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174251	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments, so I welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten - the red-green ones. With a little rewrite, everything is not black or green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174302	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for raising this important debate on the biodiversity of forests and the need for untouched forests. It is an issue that has finally crawled up on the political agenda, and it is extremely important that the debate should also be brought into this Chamber. The political awareness of untouched forests has increased as a growing recognition of the need for special action in our forests if we are to halt the decline in biodiversity in Denmark. A majority of the country's more than 30,000 animal and plant species are adapted from nature to the forest as a habitat, and many endangered species are only found in the forest. Many species of forest today are unnaturally rare because there is a lack of space and natural quality in our forests. Scientists unanimously say that species need forests with old trees, lots of dead trunks and branches and flowery clearings, natural bogs and water holes. A new NOVANA report shows that several of the Danish forest types are deteriorating and that no forest types show progress. In 2017, the European Commission wrote directly ■ and I quote that it is alarming that all assessments of forest habitats are unfavourable. And they wrote on and I quote again that Denmark is one of the EU countries that has the most habitat assessments with unfavourable status. Quote out. It is therefore beyond doubt that something extraordinary must happen to Danish nature in general and to the nature of forests specifically if we are to counter the negative development of biodiversity. This requires concrete action in the wild to regenerate the habitats of the many thousands of species naturally associated with forests and trees. If we are to reverse the decline of nature, we must abandon much of the timber fields and give nature more space and ensure a better nature. Scientists fully agree that untouched forests are the most effective means of protecting biodiversity in forests. Untouched forest is, moreover, the most cost-effective means of protecting as much as possible endangered and vulnerable biodiversity in Denmark. With the Nature Package from 2016, the Government will increase this area of untouched forest to 16,700 hectares in 2025 and to a total of 19,700 hectares in 2065. When phase-in is complete, only approx. 3.2% of the current Danish forest area be exempt from forest management and thus be given back to the forest nature. The government's designation of areas for untouched forests has taken place with a very long phase-in period, and the long phase-in period is due, among other things, to the fact that the government will provide funding for the laying of untouched forests by milking forests for economic value for very many years. They will thus cut down the oldest trees in the forest, which have the highest natural value. In 2016, a number of researchers published the report "The conservation of biodiversity in the Danish forests" which concluded that at least 75,000 hectares of forest need to be set aside for untouched forest in order to ensure biodiversity in the Danish forests in the long term. However, this is only 13 per cent. of the Danish forest area and 1.7%. of Denmark's land area. If we really want to safeguard biodiversity in forests, we must go further than the minimum recommendation of researchers and have greater certainty that the species of forest will be preserved in the long term, and that is why we must comply with one of the biology's natural laws: the greater the area, the more species. In the Enhedslisten, we do not believe that we can afford to gamble with minimum scenarios for protecting our biodiversity, because our nature is too valuable for that. The Enhedslisten therefore believes that we should place the level of protection of the forest species above the minimum scenarios of the researchers and thus take advantage of a safer scenario, also mentioned in the research report mentioned above, which suggests that we should aim to produce around 20%. of the Danish forest area for safer protection of the forest species. The alternative proposal for a state forest, which must have a biodiversity objective, is therefore also a tempting bid to resolve the biodiversity crisis in forests. In the Enhedslisten, we are very concerned that we have the forest areas that are best suited from a biodiversity perspective for untouched forests. And there is a lot of state forest where there is incredibly poor biodiversity, but on the other hand there are many private and municipal forests that contain very large and important biodiversity. So there are several things that it would be good to have more clarity about, including the time perspective, that is, when we should have the areas for untouched forest, what the alternative has unfortunately not addressed in this proposal. The Enhedslisten believes that there is no more time to waste, and we believe that we must move quickly in the most effective way on this agenda. In the Enhedslisten, we are concerned that the effort for nature is linked to the other sustainability agenda, without it being at the expense of nature. For example: it would be appropriate for the proportion of wood in Danish construction to increase significantly, and this is among other things. for climate reasons. At the same time we can read in a new interesting article from the renowned journal Nature that much suggests that untouched forest and self-planted forest are better at binding CO2 In the Enhedslisten we would like to encourage that we in the Danish Parliament get more clarity on how at the same time we best solve this cross-field of interests, and we would therefore encourage that we continue working on the subject in committee and possibly conduct a hearing. Finally, we would like to thank the alternative for the proposal, and our natural rapporteur, Øjvind Vilsholm, will look forward to further work on the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174855	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments, and we will therefore move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404174904	In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that the state must dismantle its commercial activities on its territory. This is, of course, public theft, but without really paying any attention to it, most of all because state forestry, originally for shipbuilding, has existed since the time of absolute monarchy. Fortunately, we have got rid of absolute sovereignty, so why not also dismantle state-owned commercial forest management? In the first place, however, the Liberal Alliance will focus on dismantling state farming on the thousands of hectares of land owned by the state and converting it into free, wild nature and forest and managing the land for the greatest possible biodiversity, carbon build-up and open-air life for the benefit of nature, the environment, climate and people. In the Liberal Alliance we love free and wild nature and thus also free and wild forest. In fact, at the request of the Liberal Alliance, in the form of a blue block nature package, we are already in these years and in the years to come in the forests of the state 10,000 hectares of forest for new untouched forest and 3300 hectares for so-called other biodiversity forest. And that means that approx. 20% of the state's forest land will ultimately have biodiversity as its main purpose in some years. The nature package is a good and great first step on the way to completely dismantle commercial activities on state land, but although it is far, far more than any other majority in the Folketing has ever done for more free and wild nature on state land, we in the Liberal Alliance will not be content with it. And that is why I and the Liberal Alliance also believe that the state must have a new plan to phase out the Danish Nature Agency's commercial operation in the long term and convert it into an operation that promotes free and wild nature and where the management of the land provides as much biodiversity as possible, carbon build-up, open-air life, etc. for the benefit of nature, environment and climate and for people. In addition, the Liberal Alliance also proposes that we already designate a number of relevant state areas around the country where we can take state-owned agricultural land out of production and where, for example, we can take it out of production. rewilding projects can be initiated immediately here and now. The state must only deliver free and wild nature and forest to the Danes. And before I say thank you for the floor, I would like to follow up on the exchange I had with the Social Democrat rapporteur earlier, where, unfortunately, I did not really get an answer as to what consideration it was that the Socialists had taken in the period from 2011 to 2015, when they actually had the opportunity to set up a much larger area of the state's forests for untouched forests, but chose not to do so. We still have to find out what was taken into account. In conclusion, I would like to say to the rapporteur here that I and the Liberal Alliance take account of our government partners and, on this side of a parliamentary election, the Liberal Alliance is content with the great step we have already taken in converting state land into untouched forest. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175255	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175259	Thank you. I must, of course, start by commending the Liberal Alliance and the rapporteur for actually being the most visionary party in the blue block in terms of biodiversity, since the rapporteur stresses that all state forests will actually be set aside for untouched forests, and in fact agricultural land must also be set aside for wild nature. I am just a little puzzled because when you read what the researchers write, they say that a large part of the need to create biodiversity is something that exists in private forests. I hear that the Liberal Alliance doesn't have exactly the same zeal to interpret something into untouched forest. So, is it to be understood that it is the Liberal Alliance's view that biodiversity can only thrive on publicly owned land?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175350	No, it is certainly not the view of the Liberal Alliance that good nature and biodiversity can only thrive on the land of the state. On the contrary, it is actually the case that a very, very large part of the very best nature, the nature with the highest quality we have in Denmark, is actually privately owned. And good for it. As a Liberal rapporteur, one can always be a tiny bit nervous when one gets praise from the Enhedslisten, but I do now accept the rose in this round. And then I would say that it is quite correct, on the other hand, that we in the Liberal Alliance are focusing on the conversion of state land. We think it is very important that the state should take the lead here and set a good example. And then we in the Liberal Alliance are very concerned about private property. That is why we have no intention of imposing any restrictions on private pilots and forest owners in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175443	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175444	Now it was just because the rapporteur spoke so warmly about this carbon build-up and how much good it would be if the state forests were converted into untouched forests, so that biodiversity was just raised. It could then be difficult for an outsider to understand why this applies only to state forests, but not to private forests, especially when it is so that researchers actually point out that the areas that are best at creating a lot of biodiversity are actually in private forests. However, I am aware that it will of course be difficult for the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to go out and argue that we need to nationalise Denmark as a whole in order to achieve good biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175524	It is absolutely true that it could be very difficult for the Liberal Alliance rapporteur to go out and argue for it. There are, of course, the same conditions on private land as on state land, in terms of nature and biodiversity. There's no difference. As I said before, we care a lot about private property in the Liberal Alliance. We do not want to impose any restrictions on private pilots in this context, but we would very much like to take the lead in transforming the state into that. And in this context, the management of the Nature Agency's land and the land of the state should be a shining example of how to run it with nature and biodiversity, open air, etc. That's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175610	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175612	Thank you. I was just a little confused because I expected the Liberal Alliance to be involved in what we have actually heard for many years, namely a relatively rapid release of production in Danish state forests, but then it became an explanation that all the agricultural land that the state owns is going to be forested and that it should be the first. There I am just wondering, because you ask biodiversity experts, they say that there is not much biodiversity to pick up at the beginning when you turn a plow field into forest. Is the Liberal Alliance in favour of the rapid conversion of all state forests to untouched forests, or should we wait for us to get through the agricultural land first, and what is the timetable for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175703	What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that we wanted to phase out the commercial activities of the state, and then I point out the very big and fantastic step that we have already taken in the blue block with the Nature Package and the conversion of a very large part, a historically large part, of the state's land into untouched forest. But it brought me a little bit out of my head in any case, no matter whose phone it was. What is then included in the agricultural area is that, in the context of the Nature Package, there is too much focus on forest, and there are also other commercial activities on State land, including agriculture and commercial farming on state land. The Liberal Alliance would very much like very quickly, rather today than tomorrow it might be called, to start the process needed for the state to dismantle its commercial farming and convert the land into free and wild nature, not necessarily forest, but it may well be forest. And then I'll confirm sir. Christian Poll in that it is quite true that at first it can be a little difficult to get biodiversity started if you, for example, are able to get it started. travel forest or convert a plow field into light-open nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175827	Great, I'm really glad to hear that. I would just like to know when the rapporteur and the Liberal Alliance are thinking that we must reach this 75,000 ha of untouched state forest, which biodiversity scientists say is necessary to stop the decline in biodiversity. That is, of course, what is, like, the large round figure that has been in the debate. When are we gonna get there? 13,000 hectares is a fine start, but it is small things compared to what we have to achieve: 75,000 hectares at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175901	I can't put on a specific date. It is, in fact, a very large conversion that is required by the Danish Nature Agency in relation to the current operation, and in relation to the considerations that are to be taken on many other things, also on the Danish Nature Agency's lands, both historical monuments, open air operations, etc. etc. There are plenty of considerations to be taken into account, but the faster the conduct of commercial activities under the auspices of the State, the better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175933	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404175941	Thank you very much. This is an important discussion we have today: what is going to happen to the state land on which there is forest? I would like to begin by saying that I think that there has been a little chasing at the Danish Nature Agency in recent months and perhaps years. I just want to say that the Danish Nature Agency is doing what they are being asked to do politically. This means that it is not the Danish Nature Agency that you have to hunt on this issue, it is of course the politicians who have been responsible, myself included. And I can start with a confession, which is that when I was Minister for the Environment, this theme was not so high on the agenda. And there I would like to thank those who have helped to raise this, because I believe that state land is actually a place to pick up more biodiversity and to speed it up. State land is certainly a place that I have personally realised, that is to say it is possible to go and get a lot more nature on there. I think we can almost talk about looking at it as a good paradigm change in this area, so we can start to get more focus on how we can get greater biodiversity on state land too. The Radical Left has suggested that we make these ten nature reserves with wild nature. They concentrate heavily on state land, and we have also pointed to the first ten. Then you can continue. It's obvious that several of these places, such as... Rold Skov forest is forest. So there it would be good to have a much larger focus on nature and biodiversity. Having said that, we need to think holistic about forests in Denmark, because forest is good for nature, it is good for biodiversity, but it is actually also very good for solving climate problems. And that means we're going to need more wood. We're about to build a lot more wood. We're about to have wood in, because wood is actually a brilliant machine that nature has invented that sucks CO2 It's one of the only things that can really pull CO2 If you can then take the tree and not burn it off, but instead use it to build something with • you can try to figure out how many tons of CO2 So keeping it going in Denmark is a really, really good thing. We think that we should produce more wood in Denmark, we think we should use more wood Denmark, and I also think that the time has come to actually create a large, comprehensive forest plan for Denmark, so that we can start to meet the objective of doubling the forest area in Denmark. There is, of course, an important step to take here to talk about what is going to happen on state land and whether it is worthwhile that most of the State's land may be managed more naturally and that the private sector may then have to deal more with forest production. However, I think that we lack a great deal of knowledge and we really lack a lot of clarity about what the various things deliver, in earnest being able to make a decision. That is why we cannot support the alternative proposal as it stands, where it is very important in principle that it should only be here. For there may be some places where it makes better sense perhaps to maintain both, both nature and forest management. But we are actually very, very positive about the fact that this discussion has been raised and that it has become as big as it is, and we have even played out a number of proposals over the last year, for example. on Denmark to have a wood-building strategy. We want half of all low construction and a quarter of all high construction to be wood construction. Here you should not imagine Swedish forest huts; you should imagine that among other things. The large bearing structures are made of wood. They have been through history, and wood is different from concrete that emits CO 2 2 So using more wood is also an important thing, but it is clear that it should not affect nature, so it should be because we get more forest in Denmark that we can also solve the problem. Thank you for the proposal and the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180345	You're welcome, sir. Peder Hvelplund has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180349	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, there were many positive elements with which we fully agree in the Enhedslisten. What worries me a little was just that the rapporteur said that we could then lay down state forests and use them for biodiversity and then leave it to private forests to produce there. This concerns me a little because researchers from the University of Copenhagen in their 2016 report just point out that if we are to have biodiversity, the best opportunities for it are actually in the private forests. You propose that if we are to keep that minimum standard of the 75 000 hectares of untouched forest, the 53 000 hectares of them should be from private forests and 22 000 hectares from state forests. Does the rapporteur not agree that we also need to exploit the potential of private forests and that this is an agenda that we need to raise? Then it is possible that we need more knowledge and that we need to work a little more on it, but the task I think is pretty clear after the 2016 report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180448	Yes, I'm sorry if I've expressed myself unclearly. Of course, there must also be a biodiversity focus in private forests. There is no doubt about that at all. Now we were just discussing what should happen on state land, where I think that one could benefit from a greater focus on nature and a less on wood production and say that there may be private people who can do so. This does not mean that we should not focus on biodiversity and nature in private forests, but we should also think about how we do it, so that forest owners have an incentive to focus this on biodiversity. Because you have to keep thinking about people planting some forest. I have a very, very great respect for forest owners and, not least, people who make deciduous forests, who have a horizon of 50, 100 or 200 years... I don't know how many people in this society make investments with a 50- and 100-year horizon, but that makes the forest owners in this country... and if they want to focus more on biodiversity, society must also think about: How can we reward them for it and make it interesting? Then I think we can have a lot of nature in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180548	Thank you for your answer, and I am very pleased to hear that there must also be a focus on ensuring biodiversity in private forests. I simply believe that when this is pointed out in the report from the University of Copenhagen as a minimum standard, that is, with the 75 000 hectares, of which 53 000 hectares are to come from private forests, it is a kind of bottom-up task that we need to find solutions to. Then I fully understand that we must, of course, ensure that this is done in a good and proper way, but naturally the importance of biodiversity must be very, very high.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180623	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why I welcome Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404180630	Thank you. The SF's position on this motion for a resolution is, in fact, very similar to our position on the second alternative resolution we have just discussed. In addition, we agree with the Social Democratic Party, with which we have made a joint proposal on how we can get more wild nature in Denmark, which is also the purpose of this motion for a resolution. We therefore fully agree with the intentions and aims of the resolution, but we do not believe that this is the best solution that is being proposed. This is because we do not think it is appropriate to allow ourselves to be restricted by what is state-owned forest and what is privately-owned forest. Why should the state not be able to start forests for production forests, which will then be able to swap with forests that are more valuable in other respects, but which are privately owned, for example. a forest that is more valuable in terms of biodiversity or in terms of protecting drinking water resources? And why should the state not be able to carry out cultivation experiments in order to optimise future wood production? As has also been mentioned before, among other things. by Mrs Ida Auken, wood production has a great many climate advantage options. For example: it can replace materials with high greenhouse gas emissions in construction, including: Steel and concrete, and it can bind CO2 It is of course by no means because all state forests have to produce wood, but why should untouched forests be limited to state-owned forests? We believe in the SF that instead we should focus on laying out a certain amount of hectares of untouched forest. And that's where it's gonna be hard. Because where are we setting the level of that? What is the realistic plan that needs to be made to achieve it? In this way, a greater degree of flexibility will be achieved, enabling the best solution to be found after taking all considerations into account, including: economics, climate contributions and biodiversity. There are several possibilities for private forest involvement and subsequent conversion into untouched forest. You can exchange state production forest with a more suitable private forest, you can choose to buy private forest, or you can create a one-off subsidy or compensation scheme for private owners if they convert their forest into untouched forest. It is therefore on the basis of the flexibility we propose in the motion for a more wild nature that approx. 55,000 hectares of the state-owned forest, i.e. about half of the state-owned forest, and that in addition, approx. 20,000 ha of private forest for untouched forest. It seems as if, at least in the debate here, we are very many parties in the Chamber who want the same thing and, as Mrs Ida Auken said, perhaps it is also such a positive paradigm shift that has happened because it is about more nature and wilder nature. Therefore, if there is agreement in the House, we could amend the motion for a resolution, so it is a request for a certain amount of hectares of untouched forest to be planted within a certain target or year, and it should, of course, be more ambitious than the plan already put forward by the government. At least we in the SF would like to be a part of that. To sum up, we are therefore very much in agreement with the alternative that we must do much more for Danish biodiversity and that untouched forest is the most efficient and cheap method. We just believe that the way to convert forests into untouched forests must be more flexible so that we do not limit ourselves to the state-owned forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181021	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181024	Thank you and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that with the timetable, and that is also what I asked the Socialist rapporteur earlier, and the rapporteur actually says that it would be good if we could agree on something here as a follow-up to this debate. I just think it is going to be very important that we become more specific in terms of when these objectives are to be achieved, and there is also the fact that I was a little lacking in the rapporteur's speech ■ that in the Social Democrats' and SF's paper there are 55,000 ha of state forest and then only 20,000 ha of private forest. I think we need to listen to what is in the report from the University of Copenhagen. Does the rapporteur not agree that we also need to increase the amount of private forest if we are to achieve better quality in terms of biodiversity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181122	Yes, but I really think that the Social Democrat rapporteur might have indirectly answered exactly this question by saying that the part of what is the state-owned forest is the one in which there may be a rather short period of time to implement it, because what can be said about the roads to have the privately-owned forest turned into untouched forest is a little more complicated, and then it may have a longer time horizon. So that is also the point of getting started quickly, and it can be said that the most obvious thing is the state-owned forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181200	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181201	I agree with that. Scientists also say that the 75 000 hectares are the absolute minimum, so we could perhaps reach some sort of agreement to say that let us start with the 55 000 hectares of state forest, but then have a binding target on, also with the year when we shall then achieve the 53 000 hectares of private forest afterwards. Because then we will reach at least over 100,000 hectares of forest, and we will still get 53,000 hectares of private forest, which is what scientists are proposing. Then we will be on the right side of the minimum standard that they lay down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181237	For the time being, we have only laid down 75 000 hectares in total, and it can be said that biodiversity does not care whether the forest is privately owned or whether it is state-owned. So that's what we put forward. However, I think that what is important, on the other hand, is to make a plan as to what we are going to achieve with it, and there are some of the roads that are a little faster than some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181302	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no more brief comments and a warm welcome to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181312	Thank you. I know that there is easy greasy money to get from the Minister by making a short speech, because he is a little pressured on time, so I will say very briefly that I can see a lot of sympathetic thoughts in this resolution from the Alternative. But I must also say that, when I put on the ideological spectacles, I kind of agree with that, as Mr. Carsten Bach pointed out that the State should not, as a rule, be engaged in forestry activities. We have private people who can do that. State land can be used better. But we can't just make such a decision here. There is economics associated with what is wood delivery to e.g.. the Danish furniture industry, which will be squeezed. So, although we have a lot of sympathy for this proposal and recognise its impact on biodiversity, we cannot support it. The Conservative People's Party has also proposed that there should be even more untouched forest than is laid down during this period of government. We have proposed 40 000 hectares in the past. Then I would like to stress that I am very proud of what the government has delivered in relation to untouched forests, where we have delivered ■ which has also been the subject of exchanges of views in today's debate considerably more than the previous government. I'll hold it to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181433	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And we have now come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Christian Poll from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181444	Thank you. I will also try to do so quickly. 65% of all red-listed species in Denmark are linked to forest ecosystems, and 36%. of all redlisted species in Denmark are only found in forest. And that means that a very large proportion of our endangered biodiversity is entirely dependent on the state of the forest. It's b.la. the reason why we want a rapid conversion of Danish state forest to untouched forest. We think it would be a natural battle with the role of the state................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What does this mean for forestry in Denmark? Indeed, state forests account for 18%. of the total amount of forest in Denmark, i.e. Approx. One fifth, and then we still have four fifths that we can use for forestry. So are these the right areas? Yes, it can be said that several rapporteurs have highlighted certain private forest areas, which could also be important. Our approach to this is to see if we have to do some soil distribution exercises in this round. It does not have to be exactly the areas that are today state forests. There may actually be a very good point in doing a soil distribution exercise in many places. I have been pleased with the debate here and to hear that many parties, both in red and in blue, would actually like to go much faster and further in terms of releasing state forests and other forests in Denmark from forestry, so that we can turn the decline in biological diversity into progress before it is too late. So thank you for that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181643	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181645	I'll be brief. I just want to ask whether the alternative rapporteur does not agree that it will be extremely important to bring in a timetable for this, so that we can sort of get turbo on this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181659	Well, that's quite central. For what we have seen the government do here with the 13,000 hectares has just been with a very, very long time horizon and in relation to a very small proportion of the forest area. So, for us, it is of course important that when we get to grips with it safely after an election, we also set some time limits for when there should be so and so many hectares laid out for untouched forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181727	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181748	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181808	Thank you. After all, the proposal aims to make it more difficult to abuse nitrous oxide as a drug, something that we have unfortunately seen increasing among young people. So, of course, we support that. The Minister is asking for authorisation to be able to lay down rules to limit the number and quantity of nitrous oxide cartridges that can be sold by traders to private consumers. It's the Security Authority that's supposed to control it. Such a limit on volume would, according to the Minister, make it easier for the Security Authority to lift the evidence as to whether a sale is illegal. It must be understood that today it is also illegal to sell nitrous oxide cartridges if it is obvious that it is for drug purposes. The proposal has not been consulted. That comes in connection with the announced announcement. We look forward to it. At this stage, as it stands, we can support the proposal. We want to do what we can to limit the abuse of nitrous oxide cartridges. However, the Social Democrats also feel that consideration should be given to whether we should not ban the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges to people under the age of 18, while at the same time we believe that the government should do more to deal with the pollution challenge associated with these nitrous oxide cartridges. They are simply lying on the streets and alleys. We've proposed a pawn system that would make sure they got off the street. Other initiatives can certainly be imagined. In any case, there is an unresolved problem there, which I would urge the Minister to address, possibly in cooperation with the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181939	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404181953	Thank you. It sounds very tempting to create a pawn system and an age limit, so young people under the age of 18 shouldn't have the opportunity to buy these laughter gas cartridges for whipped cream production. In the Danish People's Party, we just don't think it's the right way to deal with the challenge, because it's the same thing as legitimising that it's all right to have this kind of abuse, and they just have to go on: Once you're 18 years old, you just have to be able to buy and use, and then you have to have a mortgage on the cartridges, because then it's all fantastic. If you go into the Gift Line and look at what it really is for a risk you take in this kind of abuse, you see that it's actually something that can lead to death at worst, as ingestion of this drug can cause acute oxygen deficiency. So in the Danish People's Party, we cannot recognise that the right way to deal with this is to make an age-indexed ban. We need to discuss a general ban that can be enforced in relation to the fact that, as some people are doing today, hundreds of cartridges must not be bought 24 hours a day, and otherwise we can start to inhale in one way or another. In the Danish People's Party, we agree with the government that it is reasonable that the Minister should also be empowered to lay down rules on quantity limits. But we do not believe that it is enough to take hold of the challenges that it is, in relation to the fact that there are too many people who seem to be interested in whip cream production here in Denmark. After all, it is thought-provoking that the only thing that can be done is to discuss whether there should be any quantity limits. So in the Danish People's Party we recommend that we look at which places we should be able to have these products on the shelf, i.e. places of supply. It's not fair to sell hundreds of this kind of bullets to young people both over and under 18 years of age on streets and streets in grocery stores and in convenience stores. So we would very much like us to go beyond what the government is proposing. We think that we should look at both the scope of the procurement points and, of course, look at what is in the resolution, namely quantity limits. With those words, of course, we can support the proposal put forward by the Minister, but we want to go further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182233	You're welcome, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, and welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182241	Thank you, sir. President. When the Left's business rapporteur, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, unfortunately, was unable to be in the Chamber today, I have promised to give the speech on his behalf. The debate on the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges was particularly hot when, in the autumn, the Socialist People's Party tabled its motion for a resolution on the age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide cartridges. Similarly, a mortgage on nitrous oxide cartridges has been discussed before in the Social Democratic Party, and it is therefore clear that many of the parties here in the Folketing think that we have a problem that we need to address. Today it is actually illegal to sell gas cartridges for intoxicating purposes, but it has been found that it is difficult to prove when a sale is illegal. With this bill, we will introduce a legal basis which can set a quantitative limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide cartridges. The Left believes that a quantity limit for the purchase of cartridges makes it more difficult to use nitrous oxide as a drug. The Left also believes that this will make it easier for the salesmen of nitrous oxide cartridges to know when the sale is illegal. The cartridges are especially used to make whipped cream, and there is, after all, a limit to how much whipped cream you can put on your cocoa. The sad development of very young people, I think, is also of concern to many of us. I can at least say personally that when I find out that these cartridges are in different places, perhaps especially in the larger cities, I am also worried that perhaps some parents here do not have a conversation with their children, perhaps over dinner. I think it is quite clear that I would like to appeal today to the House that this is one of the things for which we parents must also bear in mind that we have a responsibility. All in all, however, I believe that this is a good legislative proposal and that is why, of course, the Left will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182453	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and welcome to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182502	Thank you for that, President. This is, of course, one of the legislative proposals in which we can say that it is very good that we have regulated an area that has not been regulated in the past or at least not been strictly regulated enough. We are seeing how the problem of these nitrous oxide cartridges has been increasing, and that is why we are of course positive about the proposal here to make a limit on quantity. However, I would like to say that I fully agree with the rapporteur, both from the Social Democratic Party and from the Danish People's Party, in their view that we could easily go further here. Questions have been raised in the past about the age limit, and I know that SF's health rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, has previously asked questions about whether an age limit could be introduced, and there has been a similar argument that it could not be done because it was already illegal. However, I think that when we are here and are in the process of making a limit on quantity, or at least the Minister has a mandate to do so, it was quite natural to look at an age limitation in relation to it and also the other measures that the Danish People's Party rapporteur also mentioned. It also seems strange that when it comes, for example. If we're dealing with aspirin, we can set age limits of 18 years, but when it comes to laughter gas cartridges, we can't. So we clearly support the draft law and also look forward to being able, in committee, to help tighten up some of the demands, and I hope that there will be a majority in favour of this in committee. However, as I said, we support the proposal and I should like to welcome it from the SF and say that they also support the proposal and also the same intentions that I have expressed here to tighten up the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182643	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund, and warm welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182649	Thank you. The government wants to impose a quantity limit on how many nitrous oxide cartridges a company has to sell to private people, because the cartridges seem to be used for intoxication, which is illegal. Apparently there seems to be an unnatural interest in making whipped cream! The change should not apply to sales from company to company, so that the industries that use nitrous oxide cartridges in their production are not restricted by the new rules. Traders will continue to be able to trade laughter gas cartridges among themselves, so-called business for business, without quantitative restrictions. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182732	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup and we have come to the Radical Left. A very warm welcome to Mrs Ida Auken, from the Radical Left in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182748	Thank you very much. It's a smaller one, I don't want to say epidemic, but at least it's something that's spreading that young people use laughter gas as a drug, and if you live in the city and probably also in rural areas, you can experience coming in the morning after a party, and then these cartridges are piled up and used, not because you've had a whipped cream party, but because they've been consumed, and that means that when we see this kind of new trend spread, and you can't expect young people to know that it can be harmful to consume this laughter gas, we have to do something. That is why we think it is a very good idea and a very responsible idea to limit the volume of the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges and can therefore, of course, radically support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182836	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. And welcome to Mr. Anders Johansson from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404182843	Thank you very much. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this is a matter of imposing a quantitative limitation on the sale of nitrous oxide cartridges, and of course we support this in the Conservative People's Party. It is already forbidden to sell gas cartridges for intoxicating purposes. Therefore, it does not make sense to buy them in as large packs or in as large a number as you can today. And it must be assumed that when you buy them in these large packs, there is a great risk that it is also for intoxication, and it is already prohibited. In this way, if smaller packs are made, it will also be easier for dealers to check that it is not being negotiated against the legislation that we have. That's why I think this is a really good tool for curbing sales to the many young people who use these whipped cream cartridges to get a short-term rush. Of course, it is not acceptable that it is as easily accessible as it is today. It is precisely the availability that will be restricted by implementing this proposal, and at the same time there will also be a call for more control. In general, it will be easier to control sales so that we can ensure that sales take place within the framework of the legislation we have. We can legislate on a great deal, but in the end it is of course also the young people themselves who have to take responsibility, because when we make a ban or intervene somewhere, there is a tendency for another option to be found. That is why I think it is important to stress that the responsibility lies with both parents and young people themselves, but that parents are naturally responsible for monitoring what their children and young people are doing and, of course, we must always think about because this is very, very harmful, as some of the previous rapporteurs have said. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the bill to make up this volume limit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183037	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we've come to the Minister of Business. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183045	Thank you very much for your contributions and for your support for the proposal. Many of us have noticed that there are laughter gas cartridges all over the place, on the streets and alleys, around Denmark, and that is not because there is a greatly increased consumption of whipped cream, they are lying there, and if that were so, I would actually be worried too, because then I really think it would also mean something to public health from the point of view of the quantity of cartridges around it. But it's not. I had an experience myself at some point out there around Bellahøj in the northwest neighbourhood where I live, I walked by a car and saw, and I don't think I exaggerate by saying that there were hundreds of cartridges on the ground outside the car, and then there were two young people sleeping in the car. It is very strange to witness, and it is very strange to see that this has gradually become so widespread. On 11 December, we had a debate in which SF had tabled a resolution on an age limit for the purchase of nitrous oxide and, as I said at the time, of course, the Government supports the intention to avoid young people using nitrous oxide for intoxicating purposes, but it is our view that an age limit will not work because it is already illegal to sell for intoxicating purposes and an age limit will be able to send a signal that it is okay to use nitrous oxide as a drug if you are above the age limit. We think that would be unfortunate, because it's stupid to use nitrous oxide for intoxication, no matter how old you are. The draft law empowers the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is currently me, to set a limit on quantity for the purchase of nitrous oxide, and this will then make it more difficult for young people to have access to the use of nitrous oxide as a drug when the legal basis is implemented. The safety authority's control of the area is based on the Product Safety Act, but since it is difficult for the Danish Security Authority to prove whether nitrous oxide is purchased to make whipped cream with or for intoxication purposes, it is assessed that a quantity limitation will facilitate the burden of proof as to when a sale is illegal, and it is very easy to objectively check whether the number is above or below the number of cartridges allowed. If you sell a very large number of cartridges on the Internet or in shops, it indicates that the sale is for intoxication, as there is a limit to how much whipped cream you as a private person may need to make. I know that some people will say that this is a bit of taste judgment, that is to say, the fact that we are deciding whether you as a person need 200 litres of whipped cream in a week, but we still think that it is a very healthy and reasonable assumption that you probably do not have one. A quantity limitation will also make it easier for hardware buyers, for example, to know when a sale is illegal. As a result of the proposal on quantity limitation, the Danish Security Authority is increasing its control efforts both on the Internet and in physical shops. The Danish Health Authority also focuses on preventing young people from using nitrous oxide as a drug. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal has not been consulted. We attach great importance to the adoption of quantitative restrictions as soon as possible to try to curb consumption, but there will be a consultation on the specific limit on quantities, which will be implemented by means of a regulation. So thank you again for your comments. I look forward to the further examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183433	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183435	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. It is in relation to the comment about the age limit that I would like to say that I do not quite understand the fact that it should be said that it is legitimate for those who are over 18 years of age. In other words, banning sales to young people under the age of 18 is just a way of protecting some of the young people, young people, whom we know very well are some of those who use nitrous oxide today. I would therefore like to say that, like what the Minister himself says, it can be easier for hardware dealers to say no, if there is a limit in volume, it could also be possible to say that there is an age limit, just as there is in relation to over-the-counter medicines or cigarettes or alcohol or other things. But in this case, it will be primarily to protect the all-wryst, which are some of them, which we know is doing the most damage to, and which are some of those who are at risk of using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183528	Compared to other substances that can be used as an alcoholic alcohol, we have an age limit because as a society we think it is okay to take them as a drug when you are above the age limit. In the same way, if we set an age limit for nitrous oxide as being in order, it will be understood that if you are above the age limit, you will take it. I believe that it is a problem both if you are over or under 18 years of age, for example, if you use nitrous oxide for intoxication. It is not suitable for it, it is harmful and we do not want to be involved in spreading it. So I do not think that an age limit is right. I think it would be misinterpreted, and I also believe that it should be banned for adults.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183625	That debate is also part of the committee's proceedings. I just find it hard to believe that consumption should increase among people over 18 years of age because a ban is being imposed on young people under 18 years of age. It is not a question of legitimising it. It is a question of protecting the group of people who are most exposed to this particular problem. But now we're not going to discuss this. In any case, I think it is important to have that problem looked at again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183658	Well, I don't know if it's the case that it's necessarily only the young people under, for example. 18 years, or where the age limit is now to be set, which is the most vulnerable. I don't know. I have seen people who are over 18 years of age using laughter gas and who are young adults, and I do not think that the problem is less if it is that age group than if it is younger teenagers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183729	Thank you, Minister. No one else has short comments, nor has anyone else asked to speak, so the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190404183748	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 5 April 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
