ParlaMint-DK_20190122130029	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Ida Auken (RV), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA): Motion for a resolution No. B 81 (Proposal for a parliamentary decision to make the Folketing CO 2 The title of the notified case will appear in www.folkettingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130103	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130123	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-17, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 18 of a minority (ALT), joined by a minority (EL, SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of 22 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 19, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130222	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130244	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on Amendment No. Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, on behalf of the European Democratic Alliance (S). 5 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of RV), on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 7-9, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) or on Amendment No. 7-9, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA and CF) or on Amendment No. 10-12, elected by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF). They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130342	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130412	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130440	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130511	We'll just wait a minute. I would ask that Members who do not wish to be present leave the Chamber and that those present be quiet. Otherwise, I'm gonna start yelling at you! or something very high several times after each other. Then I think we can start the first reading. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130617	Thank you. On the initiative of the Social Democratic Party, the government has now put forward a bill that sends out a clear and clear signal that psychological violence must be made illegal on an equal footing with physical violence. It is a bill that explicitly makes psychological violence illegal and punishable. And it's about time. In the Social Democratic Party, we have been working for a long time for psychological violence to be explicitly banned. That is why, of course, we are also pleased that the government has now recognised the need for an independent provision in the criminal code. It is incredibly important that we signal that psychological violence has very severe consequences and that, as a society, we take the problem seriously. Isolation and slow destruction of a human being through repeated coercion, threats, control, humiliation and humiliation cost the victim long-term psychological damage. An inventory from the country's women's crisis centres also shows that virtually all women in the centres have also been subjected to psychological violence and almost half of them have symptoms of post-traumatic stress. Of course, as a society, we have a duty to take action against this. We should not be under any illusion that we can solve the problem by simply adding a provision to the criminal code and making it punishable, but an independent provision in the criminal code can make the police and the prosecution more aware that psychological violence is happening and can be punished and, in many cases, must also be punished. Punishment cannot, however, stand alone, for in many cases the damage has been done, and there is a victim labeled for life. That is why preventive action is, of course, at least as important, and it also requires a political priority. In the social democracy we will therefore continue to work to ensure that preventive action continues to be a priority and a priority, among other things. with further training of the police and the prosecution, so that they become better at spotting and responding to cases of psychological violence, and also by more outpatient services, so that fewer people only seek help when they end up in shelters. Against this background, I can say that the Social Democrats naturally support the bill, but also with the addition that we must not forget that the aim is always to prevent people from becoming victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130852	Thank you. There are no comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122130905	Thank you. And you will have the honour of hearing the equal opportunities rapporteur today. Exercising violence is totally unacceptable, and this applies to all forms of violence. Life Without Vold has described several forms of violence, such as physical violence, psychological violence, stalking, sexual violence, material violence, economic violence and digital violence. Physical violence is the most well-known form of violence and is often characterised by punches, kicks, pushes, knife attacks or strangulation attempts, which inflict the exposed physical pain and injury. Besides the physical damage to the body, physical violence can also result in poor mental well-being. This is happening, among other things. because of the fear, stress and degradation of the self-esteem of the victim, which occurs when physical violence occurs. In my world, too, when you have been subjected to physical violence, you are subjected to mental violence. The two things are connected. On the other hand, you may be subjected to mental violence without being exposed to direct physical violence. Both men and women are subjected to violence by their partners. The State Institute for Public Health estimates that 38,000 women and 19,000 men are exposed to partner violence annually. Digital violence takes place online, for example. on social media and on phone, for example, the victim may receive threats of various forms of violence via digital media, share naked images against his will or have his phone hacked. Material violence is not directed directly at a person, but at the person's possessions. It may be, for example, if your partner, in an argument, breaks things that are of great importance and value to you, tears you and destroys your clothes or throws your belongings out of the window. Financial violence can take place in several ways; it may be, for example, if a man or woman is denied access to his or her own account, is deprived of his or her salary and therefore has to ask for pocket money from the partner or be forced into debt. By economic violence, the violent person is deprived of the right to control his own economy. Then there is stalking, which can be described as a form of psychic violence, to which more, both women and men, are being subjected today. Stalking is defined as repeated events experienced as offensive or disturbing to the person who is exposed to it. And it can, among other things. It is about being persecuted, monitored, receiving repeated text messages and calls, harassment, vandalism and rumor spreading. I am incredibly pleased that we from the Danish People's Party fought to get the Danish Stalking Center on the Finance Act so that they can continue their great work in this area. The Danish Stalking Center also raises a request in their hearing for a separate stalking clause, and of course I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's opinion on this. The bill is about comparing physical violence with psychological violence and introducing a new provision on psychological violence into the penal code. In this way it is reflected that mental violence can be as serious and harmful as physical violence, and that the practice of psychological violence is just as worthy of punishment as the practice of violence. The purpose of the bill is therefore to criminalise psychological violence in close relationships. Children's Conditions note in their hearing answer that when you delimit the target group to persons belonging to or associated with someone else's household, other caregivers will not be included. It can, for example, be done. be persons in places of residence, teachers or educators. There we have seen several documentaries, for example. children who have been subjected time and time again to humiliation and ridicule at the place where they are placed by the authorities. We also saw it with the documentary brought to hell, and I would also like the Minister of Justice to discuss it in his speech. See the draft law, page 9: "It is assumed that the proposed provision applies to persons in the household of the injured person, e.g.: a spouse, partner, parent, foster parent or sibling. This provision will also apply to persons closely associated with the other's household. This could be the case, for example, for former spouses who are still regularly in the household, for example. because their common children reside there, or an uncle involved in the upbringing of children. This could also be the case for the injured girlfriend who doesn't live with the wrongdoers. In order for the provision to be applicable, it must objectively be the case that someone is exposed to abusive, abusive or abusive behaviour. In addition, however, I would like to mention to the Minister for Justice the programme shown on TV 2 about a woman who was harassed, stalking, etc. by his ex-boyfriend. He settles 900 meters away from where she lives. And there I would like us to look at it in relation to this bill, precisely in relation to the fact that it must be psychologically offensive that he can sit in his house and watch her through a binoculars after he has exposed her to so many ugly things and has killed her dogs. But we share the intention in the Danish People's Party, and we look forward to discussing this further, also in relation to what we have raised in this Chamber today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131437	Well, then, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131447	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It's nice that you take it so positively. After all, I am the equal opportunities rapporteur, and today it is our legal rapporteur who is taking the matter. But I'm a little curious about psychic violence, and I think it's so good that we bring it up now. Hate crimes, which I know you have also talked about with the rapporteur, are also on that street. We have the Institute of Human Rights, which in 2017 produced a report that shows that almost half of the women on social media, especially Facebook, are abstaining from the democratic debate because of this environment. The same applies to ethnic minorities and religious minorities. Where are we in terms of assessing this as psychological violence? Because I fully agree with the rapporteur that we must also look at whether people outside a household can be offenders, and that is also happening on the Internet. So can the rapporteur comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131537	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131538	Thank you for the question. As the rapporteur knows, we are in the Committee on Gender Equality together. I am now also chairing the Committee on Gender Equality, and we have just sent a letter about a hearing of experts or anything else that we should have in the Committee on Gender Equality, precisely in relation to hate crimes. I do not know whether the rapporteur has seen it, but a draft has come forward, and the rapporteur is of course welcome to add something to the draft if the rapporteur believes that other experts need to come in, particularly in order to have a broader knowledge of the area and if there are some grey areas in relation to the legislation. But we'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131617	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131619	Thank you for your invitation. I will certainly do that, and I actually think we will just discuss it afterwards. So there are no more questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131628	Thank you. There are no more answers either. Then it's mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122131643	Thank you for the floor. I have been following the problem of psychological violence since I first set foot here at Christiansborg. It all started with a show of a film made about those who used the crisis center in the Danner House, and there I realized how demonic this transition between physical violence and psychic violence is. In particular, there was a sentence in my meeting with the caretaker down at the Danner House that impressed me, such a sentence that gets stuck in the head, just as chewing gum can get stuck in the hair. It was said about the fact that men who beat often only have to strike very little at the beginning, then it turns to threats. Then it's enough that you have this knowledge of what can happen, that there's such a smooth transition between physical violence and psychic terror. And that's why I think this bill is so important. We in the Left therefore believe that the bill, which aims to criminalise psychological violence and thus equate psychological violence with physical violence, is a major step in the right direction, of which we can all be proud, and that is probably one of the things I have been involved in in here, I am most pleased that we are doing. However, we have an addition to the bill, which we hope the Danish Parliament will support in the further committee work. Many of you may have followed in the documentary God's best children and seen how a preacher commits demon exorcisms in front of shocking and crying children, and in the Left we agree with the Children's Terms that this kind of behavior can be described as mental abuse that can leave serious trauma with the children. For us, it is important to clarify that the bill also applies to radical religions that exploit the foundations of the free church and exert psychological violence on children in the form of demon expulsions, etc. In addition, I need to say a little about the criticisms raised in the media in the debate on the criminalisation of psychological violence. Some people have pointed out that it is difficult to lift the burden of proof, and I fully admit that it is easier to see physical violence rather than psychological violence, but that does not mean that we must therefore accept psychological violence. Of course, we have an ambition that cases should be reported and tried in court, and my impression is that after conversations with many people who work with this every day, psychic violence often has many leads in the form of threats on text messages and on social media and other places that make me not so nervous that no cases can be raised in this area. The aim of the proposal is to send a signal to the victims that what they have been subjected to is at least as harmful and punishable as physical violence. In addition, someone points out that with the bill we are interfering in something that belongs to the sphere of privacy, and of course I also disagree with that. It is our prime task to protect the fundamental rights of the individual, including the rights of the individual to live freely against physical and mental abuse. And I look forward to further discussions. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for an important and well-drafted bill, which we in the Left support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132019	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132027	Psychic violence is extremely serious. Being subjected to mental violence can completely ruin a person's life. When a person is subjected to mental violence, he or she forgets who they are. They may be in doubt about what is right and wrong. They may be in doubt about where their own borders are and where other people's borders are. Psychic violence is very serious and, as the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, it should be prevented first and foremost. If you go out and visit a shelter for women who have been subjected to violence, then several of them can report that the psychological violence they have been subjected to has been as severe as the physical one and, above all, that the two things are often connected. It is not often that I commend the Minister of Justice, but today he deserves praise. It is a huge step forward that mental violence is now being criminalised. I hope that criminalising mental violence will also have a preventive effect. Normally I do not believe that stricter penalties or penalties can at all be preventive, but since this is a completely new criminalisation, we believe in the Enhedslisten, and we hope in the Enhedslisten that it can have a preventive effect and, above all, provide the police with tools to address the psychological violence. Secondly, hopefully it will also give us a greater insight into who is committing the psychic violence and who is hurting the psychic violence. One might be tempted to assume that psychic violence primarily affects women on the basis of VIVE's latest report on violence and sexual abuse, but that is just guesswork. The psychic violence is committed by both men and women and affects both men and women. Either way, there is a need for more clarity as to who is committing the psychic violence and how it is committed so that we can stop it and the perpetrator can be treated. I hope that criminalising mental violence will also help to put an end to social control, which we unfortunately see in some ethnic and religious environments. We are in the Enhedslisten, in other words, very pleased that mental violence is now being criminalised, and we intend to vote in favour of the bill. But, of course, we have some improvement proposals. First of all, I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts on what some of the consultation parties have said, namely that the restriction now lies in the fact that it must be psychological violence committed by someone who is or has been inside the household. There, in the Enhedslisten, we can agree with some of the points that are highlighted in the consultation answers, and I think we should look at that in the committee reading of this bill. I think that we should consider whether we should not remove that demarcation, so that we can also more clearly frame the part that concerns stalking and the problems of stalking, as the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also mentioned. So I look forward to hearing the Minister's reflection on this and I hope that we can take it up in committee. Finally, I would just like to mention that, in the context of this bill, I would have liked the government's working group, which looks at our rape legislation on consent, to have been completed and that today the Minister for Justice could also present a consent-based rape legislation so that we could really improve the legal position of women in this society. In conclusion, however, I would just like to say a great deal of praise for the draft law. We look forward to the work of the committee and count on a strong vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132427	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132434	Thank you. I sincerely welcome this bill. I can then understand from the Social Democrat rapporteur that he also welcomes the bill and implicitly says that the Minister for Justice is practically running the business of the Social Democratic Party with this proposal. It is, after all, a good thing that the VLAK government is doing something and putting action behind words on something that the Social Democracy has been working for and has wanted for a very, very long time. I would just like to urge the Minister of Justice so quietly that there should be no systematic implementation of what the Social Democratic Party has been working on for a very long time. There's a lot of work behind this bill, because it's complicated, and we can also see that in the consultation answers that have come and in the debate that has been about it. It is complicated to translate psychic violence into legislation, how to document and thereby lift the burden of proof of scars on the soul in a court of law. It is easier to document a broken leg or bruise on the back. So I fully admit that it is a complicated area to have to put it into practice in a court of law, but that does not mean, of course, that you just have to give up and say that it is too difficult, so you do not deal with it. Because we know that psychological violence is taking place and that is why, of course, we also have a responsibility to try to do something about it. As rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Mads Birded, said, there is also a criticism that we should somehow have a desire to interfere in the privacy sphere and what is going on between, for example. A couple. The answer to that is: yes, we interfere when a person commits violence against another person, but we do not interfere in the fact that some may think that one's partner, for example. had been a dull type for a long time. There's a difference between the two, and that's the cut we're trying to figure out with this legislation. I appreciate the bill, and the Liberal Alliance warmly supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132645	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122132654	Thanks to the government for bringing forward the bill. It is important that, with a particular part of our penal code, we emphasise that we do not accept psychological violence, that we do not accept trying to control or harm someone else with a deliberate behaviour that may have very serious consequences. It is important that we protect all those who are subjected to violence, whether it be physical or psychological violence, because it can be at least as harmful to be subjected to psychological violence as to physical violence. Psychic violence can be committed in many different ways. It can be committed in ordinary close relationships, but it can also be committed in connection with digital services, i.e. by texting and on social media. Of course, it is more difficult to legislate that there is no doubt about mental violence than physical violence, because physical violence can be proved by the fact that you can often see a person that something physical harm has occurred. I would like to emphasise, as other rapporteurs have also stressed, that psychological violence is unfortunately also being committed against children. It may be children who feel the psychic violence on their own bodies, but it may also be children who are subjected to violence in such a way that they witness the physical violence or mental violence of a parent or sibling. It can affect a child's development and can put deep traces in a child's psyche and influence a child's entire adult life and upbringing. Therefore, it might also have been good if, as the Children's Conditions and Children's Council recommends, one had split it up, so there was a section that concerns children. And, as others have also mentioned, it could also be pointed out here now that people who are around the child should also be included, and that, in the current wording, for example, we do not have any. the staff of the day-care institution, school or other institutions in which the child spends many hours is included in the provision. One could also consider whether one should not be more specific in relation to children who are subjected to psychological violence. But those are the words from us. Many important and good things have been said by the other rapporteurs, so we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133023	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133029	Thank you for that, President. No children should grow up to be ignored, no children should be denied care, no children should be taken hostage in their parents' conflicts, and no children should be talked down to by their parents because of their weight or appearance or what they eat, because mental violence does not bruise the skin, but underneath the skin it makes just as bad and it is, whether you are a child or an adult, whether you are a man or a woman. That's why it's good that with this bill we're going to equate psychological violence with physical violence in close relationships. I do not know whether the Minister for Justice can tolerate any more praise today, but I would nevertheless like to go into it, because the Radical Left and the government have had a great deal of disagreement in the area of justice in the last session of Parliament, and that is why I think it is appropriate to say that this is a very good legislative proposal and an important legislative proposal which the Minister for Justice has tabled and which we very much support. We have received a number of good and very thorough consultation responses from the various professionals in this area, which I would like to address. There are several people who have pointed out that mental violence does not necessarily occur immediately, but in fact can happen many years after you have split up, because one of them then finds a new partner. It can only be where the psychic violence begins. I think it is very good that the Minister for Justice has listened to the hearings that have come and has helped to clarify that it also counts as psychological violence, although this is only something that happens later. On the other hand, there are two other things that I wonder why the Minister of Justice has not listened to. The first is about the Istanbul Convention. I would therefore like to use the committee procedure to ask the Minister for Justice a few questions about it today, if he thinks it is easier to understand what the explanation is for not signing the convention, because if that is what I read immediately from the Minister for Justice, then he thinks that we are covered with what we are doing here. And then I think that if we are, let's write it right in. The second thing is the demarcation, so this is that it has to be some around the household: what is really the problem of extending it, so you also have the cases that we describe as being those who do it by proxy? These are typically men who cause some others to harass, or it may be outright stalking. I can see that the Minister of Justice writes that it would be most appropriate to have the demarcation that is here, but I can listen to the fact that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has mentioned something of the same, that the Danish People's Party also mentioned it and also the alternative, so we are the more rapporteurs who can see that it would make sense to extend it, so that we have more, because mental violence is as serious as it is. So I will also use the committee procedure to delve further into that. Finally, I should just like to welcome the SF and say that they can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133421	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133431	Thank you. For many, mental violence is something abstract, it is something that is difficult to define. But if you'd like to be specific about what psychological violence is about, I would recommend an interview with someone named Anette at Dr.dk, where she among other things. Says: I just experienced being locked in the situation and thought it was normal. Psychic violence came insidious, without me noticing. She says that her ex cut her dance card to control what she spent money on, and when she was shopping at the supermarket, according to her, he followed the account movements and wanted to discuss whether or not she could buy liver mail for the children. She saw that control spread, became all-encompassing, and she became more and more isolated from her friends and family. She got used to nasty comments and threats, unprovoked outbursts of anger, and later came psychic violence. She says: I had actually felt that I was a strong person with much energy, joy and abilities, but at some point I began to feel confused, incompetent, indecisive and very little active. I had pain everywhere, I slept badly, I was left out of energy and maybe also a little depressed. It was Anette's definition or story of mental violence. That is why I am delighted that today we are discussing a legislative proposal which focuses on something that is usually difficult to put your finger on. Psychic violence can give the soul as deep a scar as physical violence. What may be particularly dangerous in psychological violence is that it often happens in secret, in close relationships in the home, and therefore it can be difficult to detect. It is also a more subtle form of violence, and it can be difficult for the victim to get help. It is also an area which has a very unclear position in the penal code, but the Minister of Justice is now going to change that. With the bill, psychological violence will to some extent be equivalent to physical violence, and a separate paragraph will be introduced which adjusts psychological violence to the criminal and procedural law, and mental violence will in future be a basis for immediate divorce. All in all, therefore, we improve the rights of the victim of this type of crime. But we are also sending out a signal that this kind of abuse and terror is deeply serious and criminal. Today there is a huge taboo on this issue, but with clear legislation we show our support for the victims in this type of case, and furthermore there will also be increased focus and training in this area in the police circles as a result of adoption. Since the Minister of Justice published the plans for this bill, there have been some who point out that it is very difficult to provide evidence in such cases and that it therefore makes no sense to introduce legislation. There are many things that are difficult to prove, but that does not mean that we should not legislate on it. We believe that the victim should always be put first in our legal policy and we must ensure that our legislation covers those areas where there is disproportionate violation of people's dignity, freedom and psyche. So it is not a question of criminalising violations, insults, but of putting an end to systematic intrusive psychological violence, which many are unfortunately exposed to today. That is why we support Conservatives on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133834	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122133843	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the many positive and constructive contributions that have been made here today. I'm really glad if this ends with us having a unanimous Parliament to back this bill. The drafting of the bill on psychological violence actually began just over a year ago in close and very good collaboration with a wide range of actors. In the course of this work, I have met some of the people who have lived in homes where psychic violence has prevailed, for example. a woman who lived with a man who monitored her behavior in the smallest detail; and a woman who, because of the man's jealousy, was isolated from his associates and subjected to a regime of degrading control. There are stories of people who have collapsed after long periods of mental violence and in the years after that still live with the scars on the soul that the violence has given. These are stories that have touched me deeply and strengthened my belief that it is time for us to criminalise psychological violence. I am therefore very pleased that we can now deal with a bill that equates psychological violence with physical violence. As a minister, it is also important for me to be involved in breaking taboos, and with the bill we are helping to detach mental violence. This is absolutely necessary in order to deal with the problem. With the criminalisation of psychological violence, it will be quite clear in the future that mental violence is unacceptable, in line with physical violence. It is important that we, as a society, send a signal to the vulnerable that they are not the ones who are wrong about it. They are victims, and the person who has subjected them to violence is violating. It is about the victims' sense of justice, it must always come first, and we must ensure that victims are met, seen and heard in our judicial system. Mental violence often occurs in the home, and it leaves no marks on the body. I therefore admit that it may be difficult to prove that psychological violence has taken place, but that is by no means an argument for refraining from criminalising psychological violence. This is also clear from the reception given to the draft law by previous victims of psychological violence. In order to ensure that the police and the prosecution are ready for the meeting with the victims of psychological violence, a number of measures have been taken. There will be among other things. guidelines on how to receive and interrogate injured persons. The National Police will also ensure that police training is adapted to the new provisions and practices on psychological violence. With a provision in the criminal code and guidelines for the police and the prosecution, we are now taking an important step on the road to ensuring the understanding and recognition of the victims from society that they deserve. At the same time, a new action plan to combat psychological and physical violence in close relationships is being worked out. In addition, with the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, 65 million have been allocated. kr. to finance the action plan. There are, among other things: funding for an information campaign on psychological violence, targeted at the general public, and funds for outpatient counselling and treatment services for those who have been exposed to physical and psychological violence in close relationships. These actions, together with the criminalisation of psychological violence, constitute a broad effort to combat psychological violence. Now, too, in today's debate, such attention has been paid to it, and there has been talk of stalking, harassment and so on. I would really, really like to urge that we take one thing at a time and keep our tongues in our mouths here. When we talk about close relations, it is of course because there are people and organisations who have come and said: the place where the space we should all have, namely our home, is where we need to find special protection. In primary school there is special legislation. In the labour market there is legislation on working conditions, etc. There are other laws that take that into account, but it is in the close relationship that we really need it. The aim of this proposal is therefore to criminalise psychological violence, and when we talk about stalking and harassment, let me just say that the draft law includes certain cases of psychological violence which have the character of stalking or harassment, because it either continues or begins after you may no longer be living together. If the perpetrator is not associated with the injured person's household, it is not included here. It is more to say that if all cases of stalking and harassment are to be included, it will be a very large extension of the legislative proposal, which will simply require some completely new and much more thorough consideration. I'm just asking that the fact that we're gonna look at it doesn't have to stick a stick in the wheel so that we can pass this bill and get on with it. I would urge you to do so very strongly. I have also asked that we take a closer look at the initiatives of the Stop Stalking Foundation, that we get it evaluated: Is this going well enough? Are you sure it's going to be okay? So there is no position on my part here that we should not look at that, but when it comes to the bill here, it is just a little important that we get the fence in that it is about close relations. There may be a lot of stalking and harassment, and then I think it's really nice that we look at it wider. And that, as I said, is some of the work I have started alongside this. Children were also mentioned in places of residence. It is true that in schools and in day care institutions there is a law on the environment for education and other legislation, which belongs to the various ministries. That's where it's handled. However, if you are placed in a place of residence, this provision can also be applied there because that is where you live. It is just to clarify it. I very much hope that these actions and the increased focus on psychological violence can help prevent mental violence. I believe that the proposal can encourage more victims of psychological violence to come forward and report abuses so that they can be freed and returned to a life, a free life without control and control. With those comments, I would once again like to thank you very much for your contributions. I look forward to the further debate and also to being able to elaborate on some of the points I have raised and which were asked from the Chair today, perhaps with some written answers in committee. And then I hope that a united Parliament can come together to adopt it here, even if there are things you would like us to look at too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134550	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134557	Thank you for the Minister of Justice's speech. We have focused on psychological violence, including in the Committee on Gender Equality, where the Minister has been speaking. I would like to follow up on what I also said in my rapporteur's speech, particularly in relation to, among others. the program that was on TV 2, followed by my ex. Here a woman is grossly harassed, and the ex-girlfriend has also violated a restraining order; he buys a house 900 metres away from her. And there is what I asked the Minister if he would help to look at something in this regard, namely whether you can use anything from the gang package, in other words that you cannot stay in the same municipality if you have exposed someone to something really, really ugly and very dangerous • it was also a question of killing her two dogs. Is the Minister willing to take a look at that? I think the Minister has seen the program. Otherwise, I would like to send it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134702	I haven't seen the program, but I can lively understand the insult that lies in it, of course. Well, we can quickly get around here. It is, of course, expressly stated in the restraining law that stalking is an aggravating circumstance in determining penalties. There is today a criminal clause on stalking which emphasises that it is a serious crime. And this criminalisation of psychic violence we are talking about will include psychic violence that has a stalking-like character, and therefore it can also benefit stalking victims. I am not in a position to comment here on this in detail in relation to the proposal to establish a framework for where to live. I do not think this is something to be regulated in this draft law; then I think it is something quite different that we need to get hold of. Well, the problem I think it would be very interesting to look at, but I'm a little more in doubt as to whether it should be part of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134758	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134801	But it doesn't hurt to make a bill any better, and we in the Danish People's Party want to do that. The second part I would like to ask you is in relation to what the Minister said about the subject of residences. So I just need to understand. Perhaps it needs to be clarified more in relation to the part that carers, that is. educators, teachers and others, for example. is located outside the home, is also part of this and that it is not only in relation to the household. As far as the household is concerned, we often think about where we live. Of course, you can also be at a place of residence and sometimes be at home with your parents. Will the Minister confirm that it is also in places of residence and the like?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134850	Yes, it is really important that we clarify this, because there is a difference depending on where it is going. If it takes place in day care institutions and schools where you don't live, there are other rules. In other words, schoolchildren are protected by the law on the educational environment, and day care institutions are protected in a similar way. However, if you are placed in a place of residence, it will also be possible to apply the provision here, precisely because it is the nature of the place where you live; then, depending on the scale, it will of course be possible to apply it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134931	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122134936	Thank you. I can easily understand the Government's and the Minister's considerations about how broad definitions should be in this bill, because this is a new area that is being criminalised. That is why I just need to hear the Minister's views on whether it should contain psychic violence per person. deputy, and if there is not to be an effort against stalking in this bill, where is it supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135009	Stalking and harassment can already be part of this bill, depending on the context of it. After all, we have created the "Stop stalking" initiative, which I have asked for an evaluation of. Then we have also introduced legislation in this area, which I believe the law will have to be evaluated next year. Now, however, I have asked for the initiatives to be looked at in the first place, whether they are good enough. Then I think I will have to reply in writing to that with a proxy, because I just need to be sure that we are talking about the same thing. For if pr. deputy must mean that it is not one of the parents, but if it is someone who is related to the home and commits it, then it can also get underneath this. I have a feeling that perhaps we should be a little precise in an answer here. I would, of course, very much like to reply to that, perhaps also in writing, in order to spread it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135104	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135109	Thank you. I would very much like to send a written question to the Minister. Then I just need to hear the Minister's thoughts on this related to the household. I understand that we are going for close relations, so let us put away the part where it is committed by some who do not have close relations. But when it is associated with the household, does it not put some inappropriate restrictions? When I think of what is intended, namely to criminalise psychic violence and stop psychic violence, I think it is an inappropriate restriction to put down, because it may well have been committed by someone who has never had a connection with his household. It is also something about when a close relationship is a close enough relationship, and I think that a household may be too narrow a limit. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't. At any rate, I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135209	Thank you. I would like to unfold it in writing, and then I would like to try to give such a fairly good answer to it. The reason why the bill is about close relations, I have to say quite frankly, is that the starting point we have taken in all this work has been that the organisations that have come to us have said: what we need is to get something done in the close relations, because that is the space that every human being should have, it is in its close relations. There can also be harassment and bullying in the workplace, and there we have, for example. OSH rules, and in primary school we have rules on the teaching environment. So it has been more the intention to do so in the close relationship. So if people come as part of the family or you are used in other ways, it will also apply, but that is not such a broad definition of it throughout society, because there are other rules in this area, that is why. But it is not certain that this was a good enough answer, but then I would like to elaborate on it in more detail in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135307	Thank you. I do not think there are any more rapporteurs. Sir. Naser Khader has pushed in, but I think it's a mistake. So why don't we say it's over now? We do. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135328	The debate is open. Minister for Children and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122135346	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. In motion for a resolution B 45, it is proposed that before the end of this parliamentary year the government should submit a draft law on the incorporation into Danish law of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The children's convention has not been incorporated into Danish law today. The motion for a resolution seeks, firstly, to send a signal both nationally and internationally, because the rights of children are still being suppressed in other countries; secondly, to allow children, parents and guardians to be able to raise cases of child rights violations more directly in Danish courts; and thirdly, to provide a framework for what legislation the Folketing will be able to adopt in the future in relation to children and young people. These wishes are understandable, and with the 30th anniversary of the Children's Convention here in 2019 it is a good time to stop and take stock of how far we have come, where we still have to safeguard and protect children's rights and how to do so. In Denmark, we have come a long way with the work to safeguard and protect children's rights as enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. By 2017, Denmark received both rice and praise for the work when Denmark was examined by the UN Children's Committee, and we therefore agree that there is still work to be done. However, the government does not believe that incorporation of the Children's Convention into Danish law is the answer to the last question on how to safeguard and protect children's rights, and cannot support the proposal on the one hand because incorporation would be much more symbolic in nature than real improvements to children's rights in Denmark, and on the other hand, because this would entail a risk of transferring powers from the Folketing to the courts and other authorities. I will come back to that, but first it is important for me to say something in general about the application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Denmark. The children's convention already applies to Denmark today, even if it is not made a Danish law, which is the consequence of incorporation. Children, their parents or guardians can therefore invoke the rights of the Convention directly in the courts and other authorities dealing with cases relating to the situation of children, and they have been able to do so since Denmark ratified the Convention back in 1991. There it was assessed whether Danish law was in accordance with the Children's Convention, and that was the case. After that, the government has constantly assessed whether Danish legislation meets all Denmark's international obligations. Therefore, incorporation does not mean that children are given more rights than they already have today. So that's a pretty important point. The general principles, rights and obligations of the Children's Convention have also been continuously incorporated directly into Danish legislation in several cases. For example: The principle of the child's best interests is a fundamental prerequisite for providing special support to children and young people under the Service Act. The principle is also reflected in the new family law system, which establishes the child's right to be heard, a right which is also guaranteed in, among other things, the right to be heard. The law on health, and the obligation to protect children from violence are enshrined in the parental responsibility law. The Children's Convention is also invoked and applied by the Danish courts, and with Denmark's accession in 2015 to the Optional Protocol to the Convention, which provides individual redress to the UN Children's Committee, the legal certainty of children in Denmark is further strengthened. So the signal from the government is clear, both nationally and internationally: Denmark must comply with the Children's Convention. The Human Rights Committee set up by the former SRSF government in its report submitted back in August 2014 could not reach an agreement to recommend the incorporation of inter alia: The children's convention. One reason was the fundamental question of the risk that incorporation would lead to a shift of competence from the Folketing and the government to the courts and other public authorities. Several members of the committee, including the chairman of the committee, Supreme Court Judge Hanne Schmidt, and the member appointed on the recommendation of the Association of Judges, Judge John Lundum, were of the opinion that the incorporation of a total of six UN human rights conventions would entail a not insignificant risk that Danish courts could reach decisions on inter alia. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. So the risk was among other things. This is because the incorporation of the conventions would create a stronger legal basis for applying the provisions of, for example, the Convention. the children's convention in accordance with inter alia: general remarks and statements by the United Nations Committee on Children's Rights, which the government would otherwise not have chosen to comply with or are not obliged to comply with. The government does not want to take any steps that could upset the balance between the legislator and the courts in this way. Instead, we must ensure that all new legislation meets Denmark's international obligations. In its general observations, 23 so far, the Committee on Children's Rights has expressed its views on the interpretation and application of the provisions of the Convention on Children's Rights and, in matters of interpretation, the general comments can provide practical guidance on the application of the various provisions of the Convention on Children's Rights, but only to a certain extent. The Convention is not aimed at Denmark and Danish affairs alone. It is, of course, a global legal instrument which must be applicable in all 196 Member States, and the content of its provisions is therefore varying and sometimes vague and very general. So the children's convention, for example, contains. do not respond to the best interests of the child or to the obligation to recognise a child's right to benefit from social security. Reply to this, as far as children in Denmark are concerned, can instead be found in Danish legislation, legislation which must at any time fully comply with Denmark's obligations in the Convention. The government therefore wants to continue to work with exact Danish legislation, which implements both the rights and obligations of the Children's Convention, while taking it seriously and correcting it if there are also cases where implementation is not fully adequate. So in this way we can ensure real improvements to children's rights here in Denmark and send a clear signal that children's rights must be protected. The government therefore believes that there are both political but also a number of practical challenges as well as economic challenges in incorporating the Children's Convention into Danish law, and we therefore do not want the Convention to be made Danish law. Danish law must, however, at all times comply with Denmark's international obligations, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140115	Thank you. Trine Torp, a brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140123	Thank you. It is true that, when we have revised legislation, we have in fact thought it into both the family justice system and the service law, but that is the way it is dripping. This is where it is planned to review all legislation, in fact to see if we are living up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The minister uses as an argument that the Human Rights Committee thought it was incredibly extensive. After all, they did not only have the children's convention to deal with, they were also a large number of other conventions. Can the Minister say that this will not improve conditions for children in Denmark and will also confirm that it will at least not worsen it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140212-2	But the Convention on the Rights of the Child is already under consideration today. In other words, there is a very large difference between where the competence is eventually transferred to the Danish Parliament, so that this is where we are actually making the real improvements that we want to make together, or whether it ends up being a shift, where it is the courts that have to formulate it instead, and which also have to take a position on distribution issues. What I am aware of is this shift on the one hand, and I am actually aware that the inclusion of children's rights will not result in better or more rights being granted because the children's convention is already being followed, but that it is in Danish law that it is being followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140257	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140258	The minister also mentions the fact that it will only have symbolic significance. I know that many decisions are being taken at the moment in this Parliament, which is of purely symbolic importance, so it should not prevent anyone from voting in favour of it. However, the symbolic significance is also really important for children and young people in this country, in terms of sending out a clear signal that children's rights are above all else, in terms of having it written into Danish law. After all, it was a majority in this committee that could actually recommend the inclusion of the children's convention, and we have the Nordic countries, with which we usually compare ourselves, who do so, so can the Minister answer why it is that Denmark should be such a foot-to-mouth compared to the other Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140358	However, Denmark is by no means foot-timing in terms of safeguarding children's rights. I did not say that this was a proposal that would have symbolic significance. What I said was that if you incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child, you face political challenges both because you shift powers from the Folketing to the courts, but you also face some practical challenges. And today it is the case that in the legislation we adopt, we already have the children's convention, and we are also constantly assessed by GREVIO, in relation to how Denmark complies with the children's convention. So I think we have secured the best possible basis. I would prefer it to be the politicians who make decisions on how to safeguard children's rights and, therefore, that it is not something that is being shifted to the courts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140452	Thank you. Then we have to go to the rapporteur's line, and that is first Mrs Malou Lunderød, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140510	Thank you. There should be no doubt that this is wrong and unacceptable every time a child is violated by its rights. After all, as a society, we must protect and take care of those who do not always have the opportunity to quit or shout, and that, of course, also applies to children. The Social Democratic Party shares SF's view and attitude on children's needs and right to protection. It was therefore both necessary and appropriate for the international community to agree in 1989 on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. As a result, Denmark has ratified the Convention, and that is why we also have an obligation to ensure that we continue to comply with the provisions contained therein. Likewise, we have joined the Additional Protocol in 2014, which provides for the right of appeal to the UN Children's Committee. This gives us an opportunity to assess on an ongoing basis whether progress is actually being made in improving children's rights. I assume that there is a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament on safeguarding the rights of children in the legislative work we are doing. The work to strengthen children's rights can certainly be intensified in relation to what it looks like today. For example: It is not long ago that I and others were in this Chamber, where we discussed the implementation of the child's reform, and where there was also quite a consensus that there is room here for improvement when it comes to concrete implementation. The SF has, of course, tabled a similar motion for a resolution to what we are discussing here today and, like at the time, there should be no doubt that we certainly support the intention behind the resolution, because it is good and right. We can absolutely and should do more to guarantee the rights of children. For us, however, it is not a question of sending a signal through the incorporation of the Convention in this way; for us, it is actually more about finding the most effective way to strengthen children's rights. If we do not support the resolution as it stands here, it is partly because we are not convinced that this is the most effective way of strengthening children's rights, partly because, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Human Rights, we are also concerned about the shift of powers from the Folketing to the courts that may lie. So, although we fully agree with the SF's reasons for tabling the motion for a resolution, we would rather discuss other ways of improving children's rights and ensuring that they have a strong voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140756	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp has a brief comment to make. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140800	I would have hoped that when the chairman of the Social Democratic Party announced that he would be the prime minister of the children, it would be an invitation that the work of incorporating the children's convention into Danish legislation would of course have to be started. I almost thought that was a matter of course, and the last time this proposal was dealt with, the Social Democratic argument was that we would wait for this committee to actually make their recommendations. And it's true that the concern they're raising is about this displacement. But the Danish courts have seen it in other cases... do not actually judge very proactively. Usually they operate on the basis of a precautionary principle, in which they do not activistly go out judging by such conventions. So that is perhaps a little unjustified concern, but I would just like to hear the rapporteur: why should we not follow the lead of the Nordic countries when we all want to be the prime minister of the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140910-2	Thank you. We can certainly learn a lot from the Nordic countries in terms of how to safeguard children's rights, and I think they can learn something from us too. We would very much like to talk about how we can strengthen children's rights, as I also said. When we have been out saying that we want to focus on children, it is, of course, about doing so in all the legislative work we are doing here. But it is just important for us that we are the ones doing the legislative work, and that is why we are genuinely concerned that we are going to give some jurisdiction from us to the courts, which we would rather rather be lying in here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140942	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122140943	Yes, but what we are proposing here is to start the incorporation process. That is where we are going to find out whether we actually put children's rights and best interests at the top of all aspects of our legislation. Well, that's really it. Because it is true that we are doing so in a few areas, but this is, after all, a more systematic review of our legislation in relation to whether it really focuses on the child. So will the rapporteur not recognise that this work could help to secure it where we do not guarantee children's rights properly • it could be in relation to the use of force; it could be in relation to isolation; it could be in relation to coercion in psychiatric science; it could be in many of these places • and that it could actually be a sensible way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141026	I would like to recognise that there is a need for this overall view of how we strengthen children's rights across the various legislative areas, and that is what we really want. We just don't think this is necessarily the most effective tool to use. However, as I said, I agree with the intention and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141047	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141055	Thank you for that, President. We constantly focus on children and children's rights, and we must, of course, continue to do so. Just before Christmas, we were discussing the new bill on the Family Court House, which I also know Mrs Trine Torp was involved in, and we have also held several consultations and questions on, for example. The child's reform. That is because all the rapporteurs here have a concern about the implementation of the child's reform, and that is what we are constantly doing here in the Folketing, and we must continue to do so. We can therefore have a concern that, if you write the convention into the Danish law, you will get some sort of fly bone by it, and that you will then sleep a little per hour, and we certainly do not want that to happen. There can really be some signal value externally by including it in the Danish law, but for us that is also what becomes the difference, and not really so much the concrete piece of legislation. We would rather spend our time there, as we do when, for example, we do. We have already ratified the UN Children's Convention, which I also know Mrs Trine Torp was on a trip to Greenland to look at the children and conditions up there, where we constantly see something and learn something and take hold of it and make it a concrete act here in the Danish Parliament. So we are, of course, already living up to it, and I think that if you have a concern about it, you can ask questions about the individual legislative proposals to see if they comply well enough with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is very difficult to see where the difference really is. I would just like to finish by saying that, although we do not support the SF proposal itself, we agree with the SF that we must constantly focus on children and children's rights. And we also have that with your proposals here today, although we do not support it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141244	Thank you. Mrs Trine Torp, brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141245	Well, that's exactly it. It is perhaps one of the topics that can bring together the Danish Parliament at the most, namely when it comes to protecting children and when it comes to safeguarding their rights and also ensuring that they are heard. We have good cooperation on this. That is also why I really had some hope that such a proposal could gain support, also because it is not just any convention. It is a convention which deals with some of those who most need protection, namely our children. I also know that the rapporteur's party is concerned with such a thing with coercion in psychiatry and the use of force, and that is where we have good cooperation. In fact, it would be possible to come in here and see quite specifically whether the legislation we have complies with the provisions of the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141338	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141339	I did not see a definite question, but it is, of course, true that one could do that. But there is nothing to prevent us, like Parliament, from making that decision ourselves. We can just choose to do that or say that we will. I don't know how clever this is, but there's definitely a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141354	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141356	Yeah, that's the system I'm looking for. We could risk discovering places in our legislation where we have not taken that into account at all. That is what some work could also be about. But is the rapporteur of the opinion that incorporating the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law will lead to children having fewer children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141421	If we incorporate the UN Children's Convention into Danish law, children will have neither fewer nor more rights than they already have today. That's why we can't quite see what that's gonna do. Then it may be true that there may be some legislation in which we are not entirely involved. That's all we have to do, if we get obsessed with something, take it up in the Folketing. I would recommend that we all just put our heads behind our ears.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141444	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141453	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for having also tabled this motion for a resolution, because I think it is actually important that we also have the debate in this Chamber. However, the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF can then reveal that the Left will not support it, but it does not mean that it is not also important to debate matters. With this proposal, the SF will require the government to submit a bill to incorporate the UN Children's Convention into Danish law in this parliamentary year. The SF also writes in the resolution that it is believed that over the last many years there has been a good follow-up to the conventions on the rights of the child. And, of course, a number of child-policy initiatives have also been adopted which are of great benefit to children. At the same time, however, SF would like to see a complete incorporation of the Children's Convention into Danish law. I have to say that we are already under an obligation to protect children and safeguard their rights in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Furthermore, it is already possible to invoke the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the courts and other public authorities, and this will not be changed, even if we chose to vote in favour of this resolution. The incorporation of the Convention will therefore have only some kind of symbolic value, as it were, and will not bring about any real improvement in children's rights. That is why I do not think it is necessary either to put forward or to deal with a legislative proposal which the SF is proposing. I would say that in the Left we are very aware of the fact that we must, of course, look after the children and we must do everything possible to ensure their rights too, but I think we do, in fact. As I have said, the children's convention already applies to Denmark, and we in the Left of course also want to continue to work to see whether there are places in Danish legislation where, for that matter, we can do even better. With that said, unfortunately, I have to say to the SF that the Left will not support the motion for a resolution. And I have promised to send a message from the Conservative People's Party saying that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141727	Mrs. Trine Torp, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141729	I can hear that, like here too, there is an argument that there is doubt as to what that might mean. That's what the exercise is all about, you might say. But what is really the worst thing that could happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141745	If I were to draw out one thing that I could be worried about, it is actually to shift the balance too, that is between the Folketing, that is, us politicians, and then for that matter the courts. I think that could be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141802	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141803	But is it not also true that we actually have a system of justice which is very conservative, that is to say, which does not actually have a tradition, as I said before, of being so proactive and not listening to what the intentions of the Folketing are, but which has the ability to balance between these considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141827	Yeah, you could say that on the one hand. But on the other hand, it can be said that if we choose to fully incorporate the children's convention into Danish legislation, then there is that danger. And that's really what I can have a worry about. On the contrary, I think it is really important that we politicians here in the Folketing have the opportunity to influence things, and for that matter perhaps even make it even better in many areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141852	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122141900	Thank you. This year it is 30 years since the UN adopted the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has been almost as long since we ratified it in Denmark. Fortunately, we did so two years later. And I think that when it is 28 years since we ratified the Convention, it must also be time for us to take steps to fully incorporate the Convention into Danish law. After all, the Danish Parliament has taken on the occasion of the past, and now we have the opportunity again. I would like to thank the SF for once again bringing forward the proposal. The Danish Parliament last discussed a similar proposal in spring 2014. I did not have the pleasure of participating in the treatment myself, but Enhedslisten supported the incorporation into the legislation at the time. After all, this was rejected by a majority in the Danish Parliament on the grounds that there was a work pending in the Committee on Human Rights, which has completed its work since the debate in 2014 and presented the conclusions of report no. 1546. There is not a joint recommendation from the Committee on Human Rights, as the comments on the motion for a resolution show, but it is true that there was a recommendation from a majority of the members of the committee who were not directly appointed by the government, so 5 out of the 15 members were directly appointed by the government, and they simply did not take a position on the question and were the 10 special experts who were legally qualified and who had been appointed. They recommended supporting the incorporation of the Convention into Danish legislation. I think they argue well for their views. If you go in and look at page 214 of the report, you can see that it says: 'It is therefore the committee's view that incorporation by law would mean strengthening the legal position of children in the areas governed by the Convention...'. That is significant, however. And it can be said that, as laymen, we very often have to build our assessment of the legal status of children on the judgement of the experts in law, because I agree that it is important that we know what we are doing. But here, from a majority, there is a very clear recommendation and a very clear statement that it will strengthen the legal position of children. Then there is the other side of the matter, which has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, namely whether there is a shift in decision-making powers, so that what has hitherto been a matter for the government and the Folketing moves over to the courts. That is what the report says. It is in this way open to the point of view and says that this is theoretically the case, but vice versa, as Mrs Trine Torp has said in several of her questions, it is also very clear that with the case law that has existed and with the way in which the courts deal with conventions, there is no indication that it would be the case that such a shift is taking place. And what's the worst that could happen? But if there was such a change and such a shift, it is precisely the legislator's option to change it in practice by a subsequent change of legislation. Faced with this, the question arises whether we want to strengthen the legal position of children or whether we will be concerned that we may have to review the law again because there is a shift in competences between legislators and courts. It should never be presented in such a way that there are no views against it, and I recognise that the issue of shifting competences is an argument. There is nothing in the report that was then drawn up to suggest that this is an argument that weighs so heavily that the recommendation to strengthen the legal position of children should not be followed. That is why I would like to thank the SF once again. It is a very good proposal that has been made. I think we should follow the practice in other Nordic countries, and I think we should follow the call made by the United Nations Committee on Children's Rights to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law. So the Enhedslisten will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142337	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142343	Thank you. But I would also like to start by thanking the SF for putting forward this motion for a resolution which, of course, focuses on the rights of children. I would also like to say that I am not really so worried about exactly the rights of children in Denmark. During the time I have been in the Folketing, 31⁄2 years, I have felt a broad political support to strengthen children's rights. When we have sat in the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs and discussed all sorts of different legislation, it has always been with the focus on children's rights. Once we have revised the divorce area, it has been with the focus on children's rights. We are a pioneer country when it comes to children's rights. We are strengthening children's rights. We'll talk about it. We are debating what no other country does. So right in this area, I'm not really worried. It is not because we are in the goal, but we are just a long way from recognising children as independent individuals with the associated freedoms. So when it comes to this resolution, I think it is good to have a discussion on it, but, as some of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, I am also concerned about this shift in competences. I am concerned that all of a sudden there are important decisions which should not be taken here in the Folketing by us, elected by the citizens of Denmark, but are suddenly taken by courts on the recommendation and invitation of the Committee on Children's Rights. As some of the previous rapporteurs have said, it can, for example, do. be distributional issues. After all, we know that in 2017, the Children's Committee proposed that social benefits should not be cut in Denmark in order to combat child poverty. In the Liberal Alliance, too, we are very concerned about child poverty, but we want to combat child poverty by getting Mom and Dad to work, not by raising social benefits. So it is a concrete example where I would be nervous about our decision-making powers here in the Danish Parliament if we suddenly incorporate the convention into Danish law and suddenly also shift competences. That is why the Liberal Alliance will not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142609	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142612	It is, of course, honest talk, that you do not want to risk it being something that makes you have to change the living conditions in which children and young people grow up, among other things. poverty. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there is anything at all against the fact that it would mean improving the conditions of children, that it was written into Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142641-2	The concrete example I have just given of raising social benefits in order to combat child poverty, I believe, basically, is not the right solution for these children. We know that the growing up of children without mother and father going to work is a social legacy. There is a greater risk that they themselves will become recipients of cash benefits. So I believe that the best thing for the kids is growing up with Mom and Dad going to work. That is why I want to fight child poverty through increased incentives to get to work, and that is through lower benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142718	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142719	So the reason for this is that you want to retain a political right to decide what is for the child's good or not, I have to understand. I mean, I certainly cannot understand it any other than that we are nervous that with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which guarantees the rights of children, we have ratified it ourselves, we will be able to make decisions because we disagree with the intentions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142750-2	No one here disagrees with the intentions of the children's convention, but there may be disagreement as to what is the best way to combat child poverty. No one here wants child poverty. I do not want that, even though I fully agree that the SF wants to draw that picture, that is, that the Liberal Alliance does not care about children. We're not. We simply believe that there are better ways of combating child poverty than by increasing social benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142815	Thank you, and the next rapporteur is Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122142825	In the alternative, we also think it is an excellent motion for a resolution. We ourselves have revolved around it in the past, and my main consideration is therefore whether there was too much symbol in it for us to vote yes. But in fact I think it is quite appropriate to take it up in the Chamber and we will also say yes to it. In addition to the excellent comments that have been made from among others. The Enhedslisten and the questions from the SF itself and Mrs Trine Torp, I have chosen to look at two things that support why it makes sense, despite also the good arguments that the Minister made before, and therefore also some of what we have heard in previous sessions. In other words, there is not necessarily anything that is being improved now and here by saying yes to this motion for a resolution. Conversely, I think there are two essential elements that might make it actually better over time. One is the international perspective in which I believe we have a role to play in Denmark. Because when the UN has conventions, who can support them? There is Denmark one of the countries that has historically been the first to do so. And perhaps we also have a society that is designed in a way that we have fought for is at a stage where it is actually possible to do so. And that's why I just think that Denmark, for the sake of the symbol alone, like some of our Nordic neighbours, should go in and say: we can do this. There may be challenges, but we can do that. It may well be that case law already supports the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, but yet we go in and say that we are saying yes to the whole package, even though it may have been a little hasty for a while. So it is the international and symbolic that can be in it. Then I think I will note Mrs Trine Torp's argument about what is going to be in this process. Are we gonna get smarter? Now that we are starting to have a filter called the Convention on the Rights of the Child, that is to say, as a filter on our future legislation, it draws some pictures into some areas with which I have worked very hard, namely the digital and green areas, where you start to have a filter that says: what should our legislation be marked? What should it do, and what are our ambitions? There it has been quite healthy, at least for us in the alternative, to have a green focus when we look at new legislation. At the same level in the Folketing in recent years, we have seen that the digital focus is quite healthy to have in mind from the start, even though it may not be exactly what you want to bring into a case. And there I think there is some learning that is guaranteed to come out if you choose to say that we are now incorporating the whole convention. Let me know if we don't get smarter. Well, I'm not sure there are any places where we've missed something. We have relatively seen a great system for children in Denmark, but we also have educational institutions, we have childcare and we have privacy, which in many ways are very different, even for Danes in a very equal society. So there are children here in Denmark who probably have an amazing everyday life, but where some elements could get what you usually say financially a check-up. It may also be that there are some boxes that could be changed and made more spacious or made better for the children, even if they are well today. And it is very rare that in the alternative we say no to looking with new and fresh eyes at something that is as good as this in intention, so that is a clear yes on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143143	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143151	Thank you. The kids are the most important thing. Children must have good children's lives, and that is why it is good that we decided in Denmark back in 1991 to ratify the Children's Convention in 1991. That's the year I started school. It has been quite a long time, and that is why it is rather strange that we should continue to have it ratified, but have not incorporated it. And now that I have been listening to the debate, I wonder whether the people who sit at home watching TV are really thinking what the difference is, that is, what it means to ratify and incorporate, because it sounds so technical. After all, all the rapporteurs say that, as it is today, we are obliged to abide by the Convention. And I would really like to start by reading a little bit loudly of some of what the Minister for Children has led, and I am most proud and happy to read in here, namely our common children's view, and this is how it says: The UN Children's Convention's focus on the child's right to play and participation is central to Danish daily offers. This means that day offers are obliged to give children codecision and create learning environments based on the children's perspective, and where the children's initiated play is promoted by the educational staff who safeguard the children's initiative, imagination and zeal. It is really good and fine and important and an example of how we are using the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. That is why we can also ask, as some of the other rapporteurs have done, what difference does this proposal make in terms of real inclusion? Yes, but what if it does? For what will happen if we vote in favour of this is that we have to look through our different laws and see if that is what all the rapporteurs say, namely that we always put the rights of children and the best interests of the child first. And some of the places where I and we in the Radical Left would find it interesting to have our legislation reviewed with these glasses, for example. All that is about the use of force against children, the isolation of children, but also our children in Soulsmark. For this means, of course, if you say yes to it, that we will always say, regardless of the other policy areas, that it is children and children's rights that are the most important thing. That is why I have also stumbled a little bit over the argument that I think all the blue rapporteurs have used, namely a concern that if you say yes to this, you will shift some power away from the Folketing to the courts. So, the whole idea that we as a country should accede to fundamental rights is, of course, that we say that those rights apply to everyone. No matter what you come up with as a politician, nobody can take these rights from people. And that is why I would just like to ask the blue rapporteurs just to think again about whether you mean what you say with that argument. Because if you are opposed to having fundamental rights, does that mean that you are against us being included in the Convention on Human Rights? I mean, because then what you are arguing for today has some pretty wild perspectives. I think, and we in the Radical Left think, that it is important to uphold fundamental rights. We think that saying yes to this can both make a difference for children in Denmark, but of course it can also make a difference in the world, by taking the lead in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143601	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen from the Left, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143604	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. When we discuss these things in the Parliamentary Chamber, I sometimes think that both the SF and the Radical Left have also been part of the government themselves at some point. Why didn't it change then?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143627	At that time, we set up a committee to work on it, and I think that we were guilty of what you may also be guilty of now, but that the government has found this a little bit difficult and therefore finds an excuse to shoot it to the corner. But as I also said in my rapporteur's speech: I think it is rather strange that we have taken the step but have not done it in full, and I really think we could agree with each other to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143654	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143656	Following on from that, I would like to ask: if it should turn out that we were in the situation that Mrs Mette Frederiksen became Prime Minister and she is touring around with also wishing to be the Prime Minister of the children... how will the Radical Left secure the things that you stand and say on the platform today? Because, as I understood from the Socialist rapporteur, this resolution was not supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143727	We in the Radical Left think it is a good idea to take the full step. When we last sat in government, we set up a working group to look at it. Now the group has come up with its results. There are papers which everyone can read, including the current government, and then we will have to discuss it if we are fortunate enough that the elections will take place in a way where the Radical Left has the crucial mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143755	It is always exciting when one approaches a parliamentary election, who has the crucial mandates. At least now it is Mrs Trine Torp, draftsman of the opinion of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122143804	Thank you. Thank you for the debate. Thank you for the support of the Alternative, Radical and Enhedslisten, each with its very good arguments as to why this is a good proposal. I would, of course, like us to celebrate the 30th anniversary of adopting that we incorporate it into Danish legislation. That would be the best birthday present anyone could give to the Children's Convention this year. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is based on the child's best interests, among others. to ensure the fundamental rights of children, e.g. food and health, children's right to development, e.g. education and information, children's right to protection against violence, abuse and exploitation, children's right to participation, participation and to be heard. And when I like to mention it, and that's all we know, it just says something about how many areas the Children's Convention is really relevant to. That is why we are also putting forward the proposal. There are obvious times when legislation is being raised, when fortunately we can agree that the children's convention should be written in, but it will be more or less random when we are just revising legislation, and then it may take a lot of years for the children's convention to be written into Danish legislation. So it's kind of an attempt to do it once and for all. We tabled this proposal on 20 November last year on the 29th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We did so because we believe that the birthday of the Convention was a perfect opportunity to start this process. Since 1991, Denmark has ratified the Convention, thereby recognising and being internationally committed to compliance with the Convention. In the SF, however, we believe that it is time for us in Denmark to go the last step and make the Convention an integral part of Danish legislation. The best interests of the child and the safety of children are a political issue, and everyone should be able to join in. I can also hear that all the rapporteur's speeches say that is important. The incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law will all be equally clear and strengthen children's rights, and that is what our proposal seeks to do. We know that incorporation will not solve all the challenges that children in Denmark have today, but incorporation must necessarily give rise to the necessary review of Danish legislation, which can help to point out where children's rights are challenged in relation to the children's convention, which we have thus internationally committed ourselves to respecting, and therefore also where reforms or changes to legislation are necessary to comply with the Convention. The whole process of incorporation should, on the one hand, lead us to see areas where children are not sufficiently protected today, but, of course, it can also confirm that there are a number of areas where we are already living up to the Convention, and both will be positive in our optics. At the same time, the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be expected to lead to a much greater awareness of the rights of children in Denmark, not only of the case worker, judges, legislators and authorities, but also of children, parents and civilians in general. The Children's Council has previously carried out a study which shows that more than half of Denmark's children and young people do not know about their fundamental rights. It's a huge challenge. Children's lack of knowledge of their own rights will have consequences precisely when rights are violated. It will be harder to react, and it may also be harder to imagine how a life could be without distraction. We must be better able to inform children about their rights, and that is why the incorporation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is crucial, because it will give us an additional opportunity to do so. Unfortunately, when it comes to incorporation, the sad news is that Denmark lags behind our Nordic neighbours. In Finland, the Convention was incorporated in 1991, in Norway in 2003 and in Sweden, a process has recently begun which will lead to the incorporation of the Convention into Swedish legislation by 2020. The Swedish Government's background for incorporating the Convention on the Rights of the Child has, among other things, been: It was that incorporation would lead to a clearer obligation in the general legislative work to take into account the rights arising from the Convention on the Rights of the Child and that incorporation would clarify the position of each child as a legal person with specific rights. At the same time, it has also been stressed that the incorporation of the Convention will make the Convention more coherent as a legislative tool. We believe that Denmark, on an equal footing with our Nordic neighbours, must incorporate it, partly because it will strengthen children's rights, partly because it will send a positive signal to the international community that Denmark is a society in which the best interests of the child and the rights of the child are fundamental values that we value highly. Against this background, I cannot entirely fail to note that good intentions about child politics and slogans about wanting to be the prime minister of children have been dominant in the political debate of recent months. Good intentions are very good. We are happy with them, but the announcements are also binding. Denmark has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and there is support across all parties in Denmark for what it says. Therefore, this should be relatively simple politically, I think. I fully and openly acknowledge that incorporating a convention into Danish law can be a long and far-reaching analysis in terms of legal and procedural aspects. There is no doubt that it will be difficult. There were some exchanges during the radical rapporteur's talk about this with why it has not been done in the past. There is no doubt that it has been difficult, but that is not an argument for not doing so, I think. However, experience from the other Nordic countries shows that this is possible, and the experts we have talked to all point out that incorporation will be good for children's rights in Denmark. This is also pointed out in the report which was drawn up some years ago, and it is therefore tempting to ask: what is really the worst thing that can happen about this? We can recognise that this is neither an easy nor a quick process and that it requires a great deal of thoroughness, but we therefore believe that it is time for us to incorporate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child into Danish law, so that the best interests of the child and the rights of the child will have an even more central and decisive place in the legislation in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144514	There are brief comments. It is first Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144518	Thank you. What's the worst that can happen? the rapporteur asks, and you can have a lot of thoughts about that, and I just got one. If you now imagine that we incorporated the UN Convention on Children into Danish law and we look at the children in Soulsmark, what would that have to do with our foreign policy? Would that then mean that those families were allowed to stay here because they have to live up to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144550	This proposal is not about immigration policy or asylum policy. It's not about children at all. So I could be tempted to put the counter-question the other way: is there any situation in which the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party rapporteur believe that we should not put children's rights above everything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144609	Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144611	In any case, I can say very clearly that we are not in favour of dictating our foreign policy by using the children as pressure against the Danish authorities. At least that is so clear. I also have another question: what is it that prevents us from taking it up for a review here in the Folketing if we have an example of coercion in a particular area, for example. in the institutional field, and we have some concerns about whether we are really complying with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child? So what is it that prevents us from taking it up for a review here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144639	Well, there is nothing wrong with that, and we do so sometimes when we review the legislation, as I said. It is just more a systematic review of our legislation, because there may well be places where we have not discovered that our legislation does not actually comply with the Convention. In other words, it is ■ and I think it was the Alternative's rapporteur who used the concept of a filter that we are going to see the legislation through. And the fact that children's rights are going to be above everything else and that this is the filter we are looking through is quite sensible, because we are going to discover, I am quite sure that there are places where there are other considerations than the consideration of children that are going to weigh the heavier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144720	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144724	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. This actually gave me the opportunity to ask a question, because it sounded almost as if Denmark has not ensured that children too are aware of the rights. Is it not true, or cannot the rapporteur confirm, that this is precisely where we are concerned, for example. does the primary school area have in fact made a great effort to make the children aware of their own rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144756	Yeah, I think we do all sorts of good things all the time. It is not at all to ignore the efforts being made both in the field of primary education, in the field of children, in the social field and so on. We do a lot of good things. But we also have to note that this is what the Children's Council study showed that in fact there are still a great many children who do not know their rights. And if we want to combat abuse, neglect of care in particular, then one of the prerequisites for children to talk to any people at all about the fact that it is not as it should be, the fact that they know what is okay and what is not okay and what their rights are and that they know that they have the right to be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144840	Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144841	Well, that's good to hear. It was also because I felt a little bad if it almost appeared as if Denmark had done nothing in this area. Because I am certainly aware that we are far, far ahead there. I have to say that I myself have visited several primary schools and actually also attended the way it is doing. As we have both written this with the children's rights into the purpose of the primary school and, for that matter, also as part of the primary school's education, I think we can actually afford to be proud on that front and that we are perhaps almost some of those who are at the forefront. In fact, I would like to say that in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144921	Yeah, and that's right. It also depends on who we compare with. Because we can probably also find countries that are better than us on that very point. And yes, we must acknowledge the good steps we are taking. I just do not think it changes the fact that there is still a great need to strengthen children's awareness of their rights, and there we are not yet in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144940	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122144957	We are opening the negotiations, and we are doing so with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145019	Thank you for the floor, President. The SF has tabled the motion for a resolution B 49, which instructs the government not later than 1 February to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to introduce minimum standards in nurseries and kindergartens. SF proposes the introduction of a minimum standard of no more than three nursery children per year. adult and not more than six kindergarten children per year; adult. SF justifies, inter alia: The motion for a resolution states that, according to the SF, the standards are historically poor and that the minimum standards proposed are essential for high quality in the day-to-day institutions. I would like to start by emphasising that we have an educational staff and managers on offer today, of which we can be insanely proud. You're just doing great. When I have the opportunity and come out and visit institutions, I am always really, really happy and very, very proud of both the professionalism and the commitment that is being shown. Thank you so much. I understand very well that Danish parents are very happy with their daily offers, and I understand as well that we see in studies that the children are very happy to go on the daily offers. And now to the question, because it is important to get some facts on the table when we speak norms so that we do not get such a sign of reality. The motion for a resolution describes the SF norms as historically bad. However, with the new national standards statistics from 2017, we have gained a better insight into the norms in the Danish municipalities, and the figures in the inventory show that in 2017 at national level there was a norms of 3.1 children per year. adult in day care institutions for the 0-2-year-olds and a rating of 6.2 children per year. adult in the day institutions for the 3-year-olds and up to the school start-up age. That level corresponds roughly to the levels in 2015 and 2016. So the marginals we're talking about are 0.1 and 0.2 respectively. The figures also show that the level of norms for the vast majority of municipalities is close to each other, both for day nurseries and for kindergarten. I am aware, therefore, that the standards in most of the municipalities are in fact very close to the level laid down by the SF in the motion for a resolution, given the official standards statistics. In addition, I am also very pleased to note the important point that parental satisfaction with day offers is very high and is also increasing. The Danish Centre for Educational Environment's day offer thermometer shows that by far, most children are very happy to go to kindergarten. The children have good friends, and they are fond of the adults of the day offer. That is a good thing, of course, and we should be pleased about that. These facts and also a number of different visits to day care, which I have been on, tell me that basically things are going very well in the vast majority of our day care facilities, where we have skilled educators, skilled educational assistants, helpers and day care workers around our children. I am very concerned about ensuring high quality in our day care institutions. That is why, in the bourgeois government too, we have concluded a number of agreements in the area of day-care. In 2017, the government concluded an agreement with a broad majority in the Folketing, and it has provided a really important foundation for the day offer area. Here we focused on a common direction through the strengthened teaching curriculum, good teaching skills through a solid skills boost, parental cooperation and management • just to mention some of the elements that are central to the agreement and which are certainly also quality. I think we all agree today that it is a question of quality. However, it is not only in the agreement on strong day offers that there is a focus on strong professionalism and its importance for quality. We have had that focus in all the agreements in this government, including the parallel society agreement and not least in the 1,000-day programme. In all agreements, money has been set aside for skills development, because it is alpha and omega that we ensure that managers and staff are very well dressed for the important task of supporting children and the well-being of children. Quality is therefore a number of things. In this context, it is interesting that analyses of the new day-to-day statistics point to the fact that local authorities actually give priority to different aspects of quality, such as staff training qualifications, standards, etc. While many municipalities have a standarding that is close to the other municipalities, municipalities have several children per year. In general, therefore, a higher proportion of educationally trained staff is employed. Conversely, municipalities with fewer children per year have. generally employed a lower proportion of staff with educational training. This indicates that the municipalities find different local solutions to suit the local needs • solutions that the locally elected can discuss with the citizens of their municipality. The local priority therefore requires that Christiansborg does not dictate in such a very square way how the management of the institutions should take place. Quality is about many things, including, of course, whether there are enough adults. Here it is my clear position that we must take action where the need is greatest. The only way to create more equal opportunities for all children is to be able to make a difference. That is why I am very pleased that the government has given a number of priority to funding for social norms, so that we increase the day-to-day offers where there are many vulnerable and many vulnerable children and families, because it makes a big difference to precisely the group that has the 1,000-day programme, where we were allocated 760 million together with the Danish People's Party. kr. to several educators and educational assistants in the period 2019-2022. Together with the funds from the dayoffer agreement, which is called "Strong dayoffer."All children must join the community, back from 2017 it means that about 15%. of all the country's day care institutions will have more staff. This is estimated to be an increased budget for the 550 institutions as a whole of about 6% to 7%. These are proposals and agreements which set a clear direction and which have secured targeted funding for areas with the greatest need. It is precisely not retail regulation as a minimum standard would be. I would like to conclude by stressing that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the children experience security and care and that there is a focus on the well-being, development and learning of the children, as they must, of course, under the day-off law. They have to do this according to local conditions and in dialogue with the citizens. This is exactly how municipal selfgovernment should work. That is why the government cannot support the proposal for minimum standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145714	Thank you very much, Minister. There are some brief comments. Sir. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145719	Thanks for the feedback. I think I want to say that I feel that we are a little back to square one, because this is a battle we have been fighting for years now. Where it might be the case in the past that the Minister replied that it was very expensive for us to take care of local government too, we are now all the way back to the fact that the Minister does not recognise that the norms are bad at all and that the Minister does not recognise that they are historically bad at all. So, we have seen several savings rounds in the municipalities, and we have seen a national campaign with educators who, in powerlessness, share images of themselves with signs, where it says that in the middle of the day they are alone with 23 children or 17 children because they want to show how bad the norms are. And now we stand in the Chamber, not discussing money and not how it can be done, but whether the norms are at all bad. Yes, they are. And if you look at statistics back from e.g. 1986, from which we have measurements and all the way up to now, we can see that they have just got worse, worse and worse in day nurseries with up to two more children per year. adult, in kindergartens with up to three more children per year. adult. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145829	I think it is really important to put some facts in place, because the starting point for SF to be historically bad is 2009, which you usually pull out. I just want to say that 2009 just stood out, both in relation to the years before and the years after, because in 2009 there were both fewer children and more educators than for the rest of the period for which VIVE did the survey; that was for the period 2007-2012. I would also just like to say that in fact, in the majority of municipalities in the majority of the country's municipalities, the norms are better or similar to those recommended by BUPL, i.e. an adult of three children in crèches and an adult of six children in kindergartens, i.e. in half. I think it is signposted to say that they are historically bad and that things are going miserably. It is simply not to recognise the great effort our employees make every day. They're doing great. In the municipalities, priority is given to this because the children's groups in the different institutions have different needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145939	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122145941	I also think that our educators, our educational assistants, our assistants and our leaders do this excellently. I even think that in many places they provide beyond their means, because that is the result when there are not enough adults; then you have to do beyond your means. But I also think that's what makes many of them feel impotent. They want these kids so badly, but they don't feel there's enough time. Now we are discussing whether the norms are good enough. I was under the impression that such an understanding had now begun to spread in here that the standards in the day institutions do not look very good. So I would just like to hear the Minister: does the Minister think that there are enough adults around the children out in the day institutions, as it looks right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150019	But it's up to a municipality to plan for itself. That is where you can see exactly what is needed. Is there a need for more trained hands, that is, for more with a pedagogic education? Or is there a need for helpers' hands? I do not want to take that responsibility from the municipalities, because it is precisely the municipalities that know the individual day institutions and know what is needed. In the standards statistics you can see what it looks like for each municipality at both nursery level and nursery level, and that is just the way it is, whether Mr. Jacob Mark likes it or not that for more than half of them, and this applies to both day nurseries and kindergarten levels, the ratings are either equivalent to or better than what BUPL is out and recommend. I am sorry that this does not fit in with the picture that Mr. Jacob Mark would like to draw. That's too bad for sir. Jacob Mark, but the reality is that in half it looks like it's better or similar.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150120	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150125	A look at the everyday life of the institutions: we know from studies by professional organizations that it is very often that you stand alone with a large group of children. A study that I just have with me down here there are several from BUPL says that three out of four educators are mostly alone with a group of children of up to 20 children. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that a single employee should stand alone for long periods of the day with a large group of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150206-2	No, of course I do not think it is reasonable for a group of children to be left alone for long periods of the day, and it is quite clear that there is a need for very strong leadership if that is the case. For it must be safe to go to work, one must be able to exercise one's professional skills both as a teacher and as a helper in our day offer. There must be time for care, of course there must be. But I also think that we have to recognise that it is also important that we can organise ourselves in different ways. I have a daughter in a crèche, and I have a son in kindergarten, and there I see in my local day care institution where I have my children that you prioritise very differently. Sometimes you choose very large groups, it is an active and planned choice, and sometimes you choose the very small groups. So I just think that both are important. Of course, it must not be the case that there are situations where it is insecure, but it is also not the case that it is bad that you have planning where you can have different groups where you can work with different activities during the day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150310	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150313	I agree with that. After all, it is wise not to work with the same number of employees present in the yellow room, whether there are empty or there are 20 children present, that is clear. But does the Minister not think that it is a real problem that staff standards appear to be such that it is not possible for much of the day to man the children's groups in such a way that there are at least two employees? Because I assume that the Minister agrees with me that it cannot be because the management thinks that there is probably no reason why there are more than one employee per employee. Twenty children. Is it not a problem that the norms are so scraped that one has to plan in such a way that there are not always 2 employees present?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150358-2	In general, management must ensure that there are sufficient employees. If, for example, you're gonna have to... has a long-term health report and then you have medical reports on a regular basis, but then it can bring challenges. It can do that in any workplace, and I recognise that one hundred per cent. But I just have to warn against drawing a scare picture that does not correspond to reality, because it is precisely the case that in more than half of the municipalities, the standards are either equal to or above the level recommended by BUPL. So to say that it's all scraped and it's all bad, I think it's talking our day care centres down, and I don't want to be a part of that. I think we should talk our day institutions up, acknowledge them for the tremendous amount of work they are doing, acknowledge that, over and over with the agreements that have been concluded, more money has been allocated to professional lighthouses, for the development of competence, precisely in recognition of the fact that we want them to unfold their professional skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150454	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150458	I would like to ask the Minister a question about the Minister's position, and the Minister does not have to answer with statistics, because I can read the statistics myself, but what I cannot find out is to jump into the Minister's head and find out what she is thinking. That is why I would like to ask: does the Minister think that there are enough adults in our nurseries and kindergartens, or does the Minister think it would be good if there were more adults?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150523	Well, we have given priority to several adults, and we have done that exactly where the need is greatest. That is to say, it is to keep us all fooled if you think you can make a minimum standard, as the SF would like, which costs 2.5 billion. kr. a year. After all, the government of that time chose to put it in the grave because it simply could not carry out that task. That is why we have given priority to several hands, and we have done that precisely where the need is greatest. Instead of lubricating it, we have chosen to give priority to where the need is greatest. So we have prioritised several hands, and we have even done so several times, and Radicals have even supported a number of the plans themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150602	Thank you. Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150603	But why is it so difficult for the Minister just to answer yes or no? So, does the minister think there's enough adults in our day nurseries and kindergartens, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150618	It's not that simple. It would be wonderful if we lived in a world where you could just answer yes or no, but it is precisely the case that it is up to the individual municipality to plan, and where there may be a need for more hands, because you have a group of children with special needs, you have to prioritize it. It is then the task of the individual municipal council to give priority to the more hands, whereas elsewhere it may make crazy sense that a slightly lower proportion is given priority, but where it is trained staff. The most important thing is to ensure quality in the day institutions, and I believe that there are clear indications that we have good quality. We have a high level of parental satisfaction; we have children who are happy to attend day care institutions; we allocate funds for skills development to the employees of the political agreements we have made. So I think that we are running in the right direction, and that is why I am sorry that we are trying to draw a scare picture which is just not real and for which there is no evidence out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150720	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are starting the rapporteur's round, and that is Mrs Malou Lunderød. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122150736	Thank you. It is I who take it today, as in the previous one, because our general rapporteur could not be here. I want to start by saying a thousand thanks to SF for traveling what I think is an incredibly important debate: how to ensure our children the best start of life. When you as a parent deliver your children every morning and maybe only see them again in the afternoon and are not always fully aware of what has happened at times, it is absolutely crucial that you can do it with peace of mind and have a sense of security that there are adults around those who see those who recognise those who support them and assist them in their development. It is, of course, in the day-care institution that the seeds are added to the adults that our children are developing into, and we unfortunately share the concern of the proposers that the standards do not match the demands we make of today's educators. It goes without saying that you cannot do good educational work with 12 crèches and one and a half teachers in the living room from 12 to 16. This simply cannot be done, even though I fully agree that we have fucking educators out there who are doing their utmost. We also share the general concern about the lack of hands and, in particular, trained hands in our nurseries and kindergartens. We do, for example. in our social action part proposed to meet with social norms and targets for the proportion of trained staff. It is a social democratic vision to create a welfare society that gives all children a good and proper start to life, and there is no doubt that we are in no way in the end yet. But I can be in doubt and we can be in doubt whether minimum standards are the best way to achieve what we want, namely more hands and a general increase in the area of young children. Setting standards in our day-care institutions is a municipal task, and in the Social Democratic Party, on the other hand, we want to strengthen the welfare economy in the municipalities. It is our clear view that the municipalities want to give priority to the children's area, but the money has to be there for it. It is partly a question of covering the demographic features so that the municipalities can keep up with when more children and more older people arrive, and that is not the case today, and it is also a question for us to focus on the small children's area in connection with the annual agreements between the state and the municipalities. We cannot therefore support the concrete proposal to introduce minimum standards, but we would very much like to be involved in discussing how we can help municipalities to secure the hands needed and other good measures that can help ensure a good start to life for our smallest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151011	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151014	Thanks for the speech. At BUPL's congress, Mrs Mette Frederiksen opened up minimum standards. At least that's what some headlines said after Congress. You should not put any words in your mouth, but what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said was that it is very difficult to do relations with children when there are so many children for so few adults. Mrs Mette Frederiksen actually said that she was not religious in relation to this question of minimum standards, because there was a class ceiling in primary school, so why not have it in kindergarten? So what is it that makes it possible to go back to the standard position that states that the municipalities must just take care of?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151056	It is true that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said that we are not religious about the issue, but it is also our clear view that this is not the tool that might solve this problem most effectively, because what we are seeing right now are some municipalities which are heavily pressured on their economy and therefore find it very difficult to prioritise this area. That is why our position is that this is where we need to look if we are to give serious support to the area of young children and that will provide opportunities for some other solutions, and we would like to take part in discussing this. However, as the motion for a resolution stands at the moment, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151133	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151134	In my opinion, minimum standards will benefit both the exposed municipalities and the other municipalities as well. I often visit the municipalities that have a really difficult time also financially but even in the municipalities that have quite a lot on the coffin floor, poor standards are also a problem. I would actually like to pursue what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said. She said that when you have a class ceiling, it's a little strange that you don't have a minimum rating. And I would really like to hear the rapporteur now that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party are going a little back to the standard position, why it is that we need a class ceiling if we are not to have a minimum rating.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151213-2	Well, that could easily be discussed, and that is also what she has opened up to, and we would also like to be involved in discussing it here. I would also like to acknowledge that the SF is making this proposal, I think, very ambitious. I have a great deal of respect for it, and it also helps to make us stand on our toes, so we would very much like to be involved in further discussions. But quite specifically, as it stands here, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151239	Thank you. Then Mrs. Anni Matthiesen is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151241	Thank you. It was perhaps a little unfair that we started to ask these questions, which we should perhaps ask directly to Mrs Mette Frederiksen instead. But I'm still trying to get a little cleverer on where the Social Democrats really are on this issue. Is it to be understood that the Social Democratic Party rejects minimum standards, but actually, as we do in the Left, it is important for the municipalities themselves to be involved in managing these things? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151313-2	It must be understood that we fully share the concern about what standards look like and that we want them to be much better. At the moment, it is a municipal matter of how to adapt, but our concern is also that the municipalities do not actually have the necessary economy right now in order to prioritize it, regardless of whether the intentions in the municipalities are good or not. Therefore, our solution is initially to look at how we can improve the welfare economy in the municipalities, so that they too can make the priorities we believe they want to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151344	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151345	So what I am hearing here is actually that the Socialist rapporteur says that you simply want to give more money to the municipalities so that they can handle this task. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151358	We want it to be possible for the municipalities to cover the demographic trait, so that when more children arrive and more elderly people arrive, the municipalities actually have the opportunity to accommodate it financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151410	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151418	Here we are again talking about norms. This is important because we all want the best for the children when they are not in the care of their parents. It's just not the way we agree on that. Unfortunately, we have seen how standards in the care of the elderly ended up being standard standards, and we can have a real fear that the municipalities which actually prioritise BUPL's recommendations will choose to lower the level, because then they will live up to the minimum standards that have been decided. And it is actually a real concern we have, it is not just an expression of political teasing. At the Danish People's Party we have the view that it is up to the municipal council to ensure the good standards, and here one must call for you to go back in your hinterland and grab the many places where there is a social democratic mayor and have a talk with the comrades out there about this. We are also surprised that if it really is so important for the Socialist People's Party to have these minimum standards introduced, why on earth did it not when you had the opportunity when you were in government yourself? I would like to point out that with the day-to-day offer law and the new curriculum we decided precisely that all unnecessary documentation should be removed and that it is more the responsibility of management to document precisely to set staff free for the educational work. The fact that it still lags away is clear, because we have just passed the law, but hopefully it will work out there. We agree that standards are important, but there is therefore a trade war going on out there which we do not want to support at all and which we actually think is obscene and which is that the only staff that is good enough is the trained educators, and then you completely overlook the teaching assistants and the teaching assistants. It can actually help to improve standards if we give priority to greater use of them, since the educators are of course more expensive to have than the others are. So I just have to ask, where is the day care in this? It's completely absent. 35% of our children go in day care no mentioned, no forgotten-like. After all, there are four children in day care, and if BUPL's recommendations are that you should have three children, what about day care, then that applies to them too? I think that is quite a real and fair question. In fact, I think it is rather obscene that in this way it is completely omitted to mention day care as a care provision. It will be a no from here, but we would like to talk about norms, but for us to see that debate just has to be taken locally and not here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151647	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151652	Thank you. SF could have mentioned day care. We also think it is a fantastic offer, and I think that one of the reasons why it is becoming a more and more popular offer around it is that it is often a safe and small environment unlike some of the daycare environments, which are experienced as larger and where there are fewer adults for the children. That is precisely why we are putting forward this proposal on minimum standards. The rapporteur fears that this will mean keeping to the minimum standards and that the quality will thereby deteriorate. I would just like to say that with the minimum standards we are proposing, this will be a global boost across the country. There is no place where it will be worse, and we will still be able to give priority to going above minimum standards if we want to. So I don't quite understand that concern. I just want to hear: I also often sit with the talented negotiators from DF in the public school conciliation circle, and as far as I know, they are also in favour of a class ceiling because they say that there must be a maximum. number of children per year; teacher. Why doesn't there have to be a maximum? number of children per year; adult in the day institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151758	As far as we are concerned, these are two very different offers. One is about primary school, the other is about caring for our smallest children, and there are quite different needs, and this is a completely different learning going on. Therefore, it makes no sense to talk about a ceiling in the way one compares with the primary school. What makes sense is to talk about whether the smallest children are safe and they do so in the small environments. We are absolutely convinced of this in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151825	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151827	Now the rapporteur said that it was obscene that the SF had written nothing about day care. I do not want to call it obscene, but at least I would say that I find it a little strange that the day institutions are being talked down like that. I think you do that when you say that with the school it is something else; that there is a need for it. We know how important the day institutions are. We know how important the early effort is. The rapporteur has been one of the most active forces in the work of the new curricula, because we know how important the early efforts are. So I don't understand why there shouldn't be a ceiling there. The rapporteur is in favour of a ceiling, for example. in day care. So should you just remove it and say that they decide for themselves locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151904	Thank you, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151906	I have not said that I am in favour of a ceiling in day care. I say that there is a ceiling in day care, and it is four children with a fifth child as a guest child, and there it is just surprising that it is quite okay that a day care can go for months with five children and that it is no problem, but that it is a huge problem that there are more than three children per year. adult in a crèche. I think that is simply strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151928	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122151931	Well, I agree with the rapporteur that day care is an excellent day-care offer. But I wondered, like Mr. Jacob Mark over the approach to having a minimum rating. Because it is statutory that day care must have no more than five children, but that does not prevent the norm from being, as the rapporteur himself says, four children. There are also some places where you actually have only three children, and then there is an extended obligation to receive guest children. Why is it sensible to have a minimum standard in day care, while it is not sensible to have it in today's institutions? I don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152015	After all, the standards in day care have been decided. This is not something we should be talking about as a new bill here. And in relation to three children, at least as far as I am aware, it is contractual and has nothing to do with legislation. I may be wrong, but I certainly believe that this has something to do with the agreement. And then there are two different services. In one place it is a crèche where there are a lot of trained staff, but in day care there is no requirement for training.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152044	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152046	It is true that this is the case in day care, but it is precisely because of the legislation. After all, we have seen cases of private carers, some of whom have felt called to take six children; some have felt that they have not succeeded in doing so. Well, we've had cases where there have been six children. Thankfully, this has been dealt with, but if we did not have a legal framework, then the individual municipality was free to say: 'Ah, there may be five, then there may be six'. Wouldn't that be a problem? And if that would be a problem, why is it a problem if we set a ceiling here which the municipalities can then build up in relation to the municipal norms laid down?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152132	As far as I am aware, the pool schemes were precisely laid down because there were extremely many children for one pool passer. I wasn't in the Folketing myself, so I'm not supposed to be able to say it a hundred percent. And then there is the fact that there is a limitation on how many adults there are in day care • there is only one adult. But there are no restrictions in the crèche on how many adults you can hire. So there you can just hire in relation to the number of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152153	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Bendixen. The next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152200	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for raising the debate in this Chamber today on minimum standards. We've talked about that a number of times, but I'll do it again. After all, the Socialist People's Party is proposing with this resolution that the government should call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to introduce minimum standards in crèches and kindergartens by 1 February at the latest. It doesn't say a year, but I guess it's supposed to be in this parliamentary year. More specifically, SF proposes that there should be no more than three nursery children per year. adult and that there should be no more than six nursery children per year; adult in day care. I can begin by saying that the children's area is also really, really important for the Left. If you look at the things which, after all, the Left and the current government have taken the lead in relation to the whole area of day-care, the day-off area, then I think that there are, in fact, many of the agreements we have reached with broad support here in the Folketing over the last few years that we can really be proud of. And this has also helped to ensure an even higher quality in our day offer. So in this way I would say that I actually have even more peace in my stomach, compared to the fact that the offer we make to our children is really, really good. With the 2017 daily offer agreement, we made a good deal, also with the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left, to improve the quality of day nurseries and day care. In addition to that, the 1000-day programme set aside a billion. kr. to the efforts already made in the past for a great many children from vulnerable families. So I have to say that with the measures that have been taken over the last few years, I actually think that we in the Left have also played a great part in fulfilling this task. I can also mention the issue of ensuring that more people are now employed, especially in the day-to-day services where there are many socially vulnerable children. That is one of the things we have earmarked the money for, because we think it is important that we give an extra hand. In conclusion, I agree with the authors of the motion that it is extremely important that we have a good framework for our children in our day-to-day services, and I actually believe that we are helping to ensure this with the measures we have taken. We cannot support the resolution, nor can the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152501	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152505	Thanks for the speech. After all, some of the debate today is about whether there is a problem at all, i.e. whether there are really enough adults for children. And this is such a fairly crucial discussion, because if you consider that there are enough adults for children, there is no need to discuss minimum standards. Everything we see, read and hear points to the fact that there are not enough adults, i.e. the studies, also the new standardisation study, which shows how many people are actually out in the day offers for children, BUPL's alone time study, which shows that as an educator you experience being alone with children's flocks of 17 several times in a day. And then there is this great campaign for educators, which, as I said, shows in powerless images from their work situation where they stand alone with a great many children. Is the rapporteur really of the opinion that there is a problem out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152559	But there I would say that I do not think there is just one answer where you can say yes or no to that question. I think you will be able to find places where it is entirely justified that there may be parents who think there is a problem. But I also think it is important to emphasise that more than half of the country's municipalities actually live up to what BUPL has of desires and visions. But I think there will certainly be places where it would be perfectly justified to say that. Here we have a problem right in our kindergarten or in our crèche. But again, in the Left, we also like municipal autonomy, and we actually think it is really important that we give the freedom to plan these things locally. And that's what doesn't mean we're not gonna start dictating anything in this area from Christiansborg's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152657	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152658	I think that before you buy the argument that the norms are, as BUPL wants, you should just dive into the statistics. For example: In Copenhagen, the standards statistics include middle managers, and everyone who knows what middle managers are doing knows that it has nothing to do with day-to-day operations. It is not because they are not doing important work, but they are not down and comforting and hugging and changing, and it is not part of what BUPL wants, so it does not quite last. What I just want to ask is that the Left is in favour of municipal autonomy. So does the SF, but we believe that there are places where we say that it is so important that we should take action. We have talked a lot about the class ceiling, and as far as I know, the Left is in favour of a class ceiling. Why is there a difference between a class ceiling and a minimum rating for the smallest?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152741	Actually, I don't think you can quite compare these things. I still have to say that it may be a question of what management is like in these places, what it is like to plan, what it is like for a staff you have hired at all and what it is like to give priority to whether it is trained staff you think is really important or, for that matter, to say in some municipalities that you care that there are both helpers and, for that matter, educational assistants who are hired. So I think it is simply wrong to compare the two things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152818	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, standing by on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122152827	I would like to start by thanking the SF for putting today's institutions' standards on the agenda. It is no more than a year and a half since we discussed it at the end of a question debate. I took the opportunity to do so and I will do so again to welcome the fact that the government, in the proposal it made for a strong daily offer, had a reference to the so-called Heckman curve, i.e. the curve in which economist James Heckman illustrates how much economic gain there is in investing in an early effort. It is a curve that shows that investment in high-quality day-to-day services contributes to giving children good opportunities to exploit their potentials and to ensure children a versatile development that not only equips them to do well in the education system but also equips them well for life at all. It is therefore a good thing that there is this broad understanding of what the government's paper a year and a half ago actually reflected. The only problem is that it is not substantially followed up by a policy which then also takes account of it. It should not be disputed what the Minister has said here from the platform that something has been done in relation to social norms. I should only like to pay tribute to that and not criticize it, but unfortunately we also see, with the scarce economy in the municipalities, that there is a very strong tendency, with one hand, where improvements are made, in this case social norms, to be taken with the other hand, if not directly by the government and parliament, but in the way that the municipalities, with the economic pressure that exists, have to be made in such a way that, in the end, the norms do not get any better. That means, of course, that we will not have the necessary quality boost. This means that there are still educational staff who, for long periods of the day, have to go alone with a group of children, and that means that we also know that care for the individual child who needs comfort and support is very often not sufficient, and not only in relation to the individual child, but we also know that the strong children's communities that really help to give children a good upbringing and equip them for their future lives cannot be taken into account either. That is why we fully agree with the SF that a bottom must be laid, so that we are sure that there is a certain level of quality in the day-to-day offers in the day-to-day institutions. We also agree that we should start from the fact that there should be one adult per person. Three and six children respectively. On the other hand, I think we really need to discuss modernising the way in which standards are viewed. Because I have been a number of years in the industry and the requirement that was formulated for an adult per year. Three nursery children and one adult per year. Six kindergarten children were well formulated back 25-30 years ago, and the reality of the institutions has changed tremendously. When we look at the studies that lie, about what the teaching staff actually did when the municipalities took over the institutions from the state, that is how we know; it was very carefully examined, which was made the so-called Seierup report, which came in connection with the introduction of the aid law, which showed that over 70%. of the working time used was used for direct work with children. If we look at the developments that have taken place, we know that in the 1990s it was reduced to around 60-65 per cent, and as far as everyday life today is concerned, it is in the region of 54, 55, 56 per cent. It can be difficult to measure the exact use of time in direct educational work with children. So the fact that there was one employee per. three or per year; Six children earlier, in fact, are not the same in the teaching practice today because time is used differently. This does not change the • and I fully agree with the SF's approach, because it is, of course, the one we have immediately, and we will unreservedly support the proposal • that in the further debate we also have to look at the requirements that were formulated for the number of employees per year. child, in fact in many ways has been overtaken by evolution. This does not mean that SF is too high in its standards requirement, quite the contrary. But on the other hand, it's going to add these approx. 4,000 additional employees. That would be a very good start. So we need a further discussion about the demands that are made for us to ensure proper time for the time when you actually are. So we are going to do that by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153351	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153357	Thank you. Also thanks to SF for again taking up this theme. I think it is far more interesting to discuss quality in our day offer than to discuss some figures on a piece of paper. Now I have two children myself, both of them in day care, one in crèche, the other in kindergarten, and I can say that my children experience being handed in and picked up every day, and they are happy. There are hands to take those who are talking when I come and pick up when my husband comes and picks up, talk about how the day has been, what has been of good and bad during the day. They're happy. I have no idea what the standards are, I am not looking at a piece of paper where they have been calculated, because that is simply not what concerns me as a mother. What concerns me is whether I deliver my children happy, if they are happy when I pick them up, if they are in well-being and well-being. That's what's important to me. If we simply introduce minimum standards and think that everything is good, then I think we will have a surprise because there may still be things that are bad. I have a lot of friends and friends who are in the same place in life as me, with children, toddlers in day care, and we fully agree that what matters to us is quality. It's that we deliver happy kids, watch them evolve. And we believe that those day care institutions will come if there are good leaders, and a good leader is for me a leader who has a room for business, and who can lead, and so you cannot look if you are regulated in here from Christiansborg, but you can lead and be a good leader when you take stock of the situation in each day care institution. In some rooms you need four hands that are then unskilled, but there are hands more crucial, and in other rooms you need them to be trained educators, and there you can live with two hands. And that management right, that management room, it's absolutely crucial for us in the Liberal Alliance you have out there locally. So when I am against this proposal, it is not because I am against the need for more educators. I am chairman of the Committee on Children's Rights at Frederiksberg, where I am also in the municipal council, and in recent years we have raised the standards in the budget, because we are well aware that more educators, more adults, make a difference, that is part of the offer that is being made. So locally we have prioritised it but it is a decision that must be taken locally and it is also because in the Liberal Alliance we stand at the goal of municipal self-government and think it is important. So I am voting no, the Liberal Alliance is voting no to this proposal, but it is not because we do not recognise the importance of adults, but it is because we are in favour of the management of each day's institution and local government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153652	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153657	Thank you for not saying a blank 'no' to the debate on the need for more adults. I am glad of that, because we believe that there is at least. The rapporteur says that the Liberal Alliance is at the heart of local self-government and that it does not want to make detailed regulation of the leaders. In fact, I would venture to claim that a minimum standard would be a freedom for the leaders. We are not proposing exactly how to use the resource. We are not saying like the government that has been out airing thoughts that they should be used at the end of the day or early in the day. We don't even tell them who to hire. We're just giving them a minimum resource. I think that gives more room for management than that, like today, they have to look with magnification for holes, i.e. for places where it is possible to develop because the economy is so tight. At least that's what I'm saying. The rapporteur says that she cannot look down on a standard and see if it provides quality. I understand that, but what does the rapporteur think of the many professionals who say that the standards we have today lead to worse quality than what might otherwise be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153759	But there's a big difference between what's being said. As I said, I have two children in a daycare institution who are happy and satisfied, and I am happy and satisfied with the offers there are. I think that we should measure the quality of our day-to-day services for children and parents, and not on some theoretical paper where figures are weighed against each other, but in other words assess the quality of real people. Yes, there are clearly some day care centres where there are not enough adults. Those examples have been brought forward in the press, and this is a bad management, because of course we must ensure that there is a good offer for the children. So it is clear that I am against this, and the professionals who are shouting guardly in arms, we have to listen to that. But I do not think the solution is a minimum standard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153844	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153847	As I hear it and then the rapporteur has to correct me if I am wrong, are those who recommend a minimum rating, both some of the educational professionals, BUPL, FOA and the National Association of Parents and, as such, also the managers. So it is actually some people who are reasonably important to listen to if you want to have an insight into what is of quality. Shouldn't you? Just a little for fun: if the rapporteur asked her friends who she is talking to, would they not want a bottom-up on how many resources there are for adults in their children's day care institutions, does the rapporteur think that the friends would answer yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122153929	In fact, I think the friends would say that they wouldn't have a bottom at the expense of the manager's trading room. For those with whom I speak, it is absolutely crucial in relation to the good day institutions that there is a good leader. That is what is absolutely crucial. That's where there's low sickness absence. This is where there are committed employees who will just be 10 minutes extra if needed. It is the good leader who motivates them. And if we turn them off because we're detailing from here, then I don't believe it's gonna be good day care institutions. But I ask my friends if they want more educators, if they want them better educated, if they want higher quality in general, then they answer yes, because we all want that; there is no doubt about that. I just don't think we're in favour of it being regulated in detail from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154014	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154017	I have a great deal of sympathy for many of the comments made by the rapporteur. A personal example is also used. That must be taken care of at times, but, on the other hand, it is also a little interesting and gives life to the debate, I would say. Personally, I would never go out as the situation is today and apply for a job as head of an institution. Because I am simply thinking of the fact that it is a skilled leader who has to create the framework and that there is municipal autonomy, and therefore there is a lot of responsibility on the manager that the framework I see is just very, very difficult to navigate and create the space in which I would, at least with my integrity, like to stand for as a leader. There is my question to the rapporteur when the example is the rapporteur's own children and it might just as well be mine or some others from in here: can there not also be a difference in whether you are actually used to, as I imagine the rapporteur is, having a good dialogue with your children and talking and dare asking the employees what has happened today or not? Perhaps you have a life that means that you cannot be quite as aware of the things that are going on, but where the need could be even greater than for me, for example, or for the rapporteur himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154124	Yeah, well, I'm definitely one of the searching parents when I come to pick up at the playground. But my impression, and now this is just a very specific situation, is actually that there are people to turn to the parents who are coming. But, of course, we must be careful not to start from our own situation. However, I have a broad circle of friends with small children right now, as I do, and there is just a basic view that one is satisfied with the offer. In fact, this is also what we can see in the surveys that there is increasing satisfaction with our day offer. And my impression is that the leaders out there have room for action as it is today. But some minimum standards are just going to be very rigid and will restrict that room of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154214	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154215	I would like to stress that I think it is very good to start from time to time with a simple and slender case that is one's own. But the general question to the rapporteur will then be: is there enough adults out there? I am also much more at quality than just setting some minimum standards, which are rigid. But it's just not my impression that there's enough adults. As I said, I came with the example before, whether I wanted to step in as a leader out there. It seems to me difficult to argue in favour of the development that has also taken place in society, how many administrative hours are also spent • that the educators outside the children today are a satisfied group of hard-working people who feel that their work gets the recognition from the outside as it should. It may be they are the ones who are wrong, but it is not my experience that this is how the group sees itself today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154309	Are there adults enough? Some places are there, some places aren't there. We have 98 municipalities with a sea of day institutions in each municipality. In some places there are, and elsewhere there is by no means. Down in my children's day care center we celebrated the 40th anniversary of a pedagogic assistant. It tells me that you're happy to be there, that you thrive. It's the same educators from my son's start almost four years ago who's still there. When you can see that the employees, educators and educators continue to be there, it is a sign of quality in itself. So I'd like to step in and be the head of the day care institutions I know at least. I think that's a great job.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154352	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. René Gade, who is replacing on the platform now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154402	It is a really, really interesting debate and therefore also thanks to the SF for raising it. As I also said in the previous motion for a resolution, which was also from the SF, there was one such thing, a single appeal from us in the alternative, in relation to whether we could fully support this. We did so in the last proposal, and we will do so here too, because we constantly advocate municipal autonomy. We have to set the municipalities free, we have to set the employees free. We must give the leadership out there, as my colleague from the Liberal Alliance also said before, the power to create the best framework. So can we afford this? If we now chose to vote this through, we would have to come up with a solution or a sensible one as to how such minimum standards would work. Because we would very much hate to dictate how each leader should distribute resources within a day. But with that said, I simply cannot see how this can get worse for the leaders either. I think it was sir. Jacob Mark, who said that it would not just set the leaders free with a statute. Because today there are very, very pressured frameworks. I do not know the historical span that Enhedslisten's rapporteur made before, where you just have to say wow. It is a bit of a siding, but we also have a debate going on about whether it makes sense to have very experienced politicians or whether to rush in and out. There I sometimes plead that you can get in and make a difference and then get out again. But, my goodness, we should also remember that experience gives us something. Because the Enhedslisten's rapporteur gave a perspective on the debate, which says that this is not new. It has been up for many years that we have had the intention for many years. What happened? Perhaps the good intention that was has actually been demographically overtaken. Maybe this SF proposal isn't enough anymore. So perhaps we should just say that the SF's proposal is certainly appropriate. It may not be enough, but it could be a start, despite the fact that it may sound rich. That is why we fully support the alternative. I would like to make one comment on which is not about the children, but which is about the employees. There I mentioned as an example the leadership role of these institutions. I don't have any empiri on it, I don't have any data on it, but it's my experience completely unscientific that there are many leaders in the public sector, like many other places in society who feel stressed and pressed, feel that they do not meet the demands that are being made to them and that they cannot deliver the job they want. I'm not supposed to be able to tell you if it's a lack of abilities or what it is. But for the employees as well as the managers, I'm not sure it's very meaningful to be in an institution where you just don't have time for the children. And if there is as much time for administration as there is today, and if there is so little understanding of what the educator can do, as the educator helper cannot do, as I actually often hear in the debate, then I would be challenged to find my opinion in being an educator in an institution. I have again personally experienced and been handed down from good acquaintances, who have no intention of creating a worse picture than most necessary, that crèches, when they are very young, lie, if not pacified, then just by themselves pacified, because they can't really get anywhere and there just isn't time for them. It may then be that you have just been unlucky with the institution you have landed in, but when you get into such a place, you can get such a picture of a small robot farm, even with the best intentions that there can be in the day nurseries. We've had our own children in day care. There you can be lucky or unlucky, we've been very lucky. But in crèches: Yes, that's an excellent offer, an excellent offer. The vast majority of places are going very well, and I am sure that it would also be the experience we would have had if we had been there. I just think it's dangerous not to be very honest and open that this is a discussion about the economy. Because I can help to ensure that minimum standards are also a debate on freedom. Should we set the municipalities free to decide for themselves? Yeah, I'd like to take part in that, so let's isolate it for two seconds. But then there is the question of funding here. We can be a part of SF's funding. We want to help tax wealth to a reasonable and future-safe degree. But it is also just a question of whether we want to invest what needs to be done in our children and in the institutions and people who need to take care of our children. I think that is a fine argument. If someone doesn't want to invest the quite substantial amount of dollars, it costs to do this because you don't think it'll actually be better, I think that's a fine argument for saying no. However, if it is, in relation to the fact that the municipalities must continue to be freed and have municipal autonomy, then we must find a solution, make a national compromise where we can get beyond it and then find out that they may still have a good chance and the right to decide for themselves how everyday life should be organized. But it sounds more like it's the economy that keeps us from doing this. Because it will be a costly affair and I think it will be a good investment for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154857	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122154905	Thank you. What kind of everyday life are we dreaming of for our children? It must be funny, there must be cute adults, there must be lots of adventure, play, jumping in puddles, singing songs, tumbling, talking, huging, blowing soap bubbles, and many other things that make good children's lives. It requires that there are good adults and that there are enough of them. Therefore, it does of course matter that there are adults enough to divide children into small groups, and it matters that an adult is not alone with a large group of children. I actually tend to be very happy and optimistic when I am talking about children's politics around here, because I basically have a perception that we are moving in relation to this and there are more and more people who think it is important. That is why I must also say that I am somewhat frustrated that we have been completely bombed back today; that the Minister starts by saying that she does not even see that there is a problem with whether there are enough adults in our day care institutions. The minister won't tell me if there's enough adults. I am already reasonably frustrated that this is taking so long in here; we are discussing so many things, and we are spending money on everything in the Folketing, and yet we are not getting the decision that needs to be made to make the big investment that the children deserve. That is why I also agree with the SF that it would be good if the government called for negotiations. When we were in government, year after year we set aside money to get more educators for our children. It was a little different how many educators actually came out to the children. And we have learned from this, and that is why we in the Radical Left would like us to make a model where we from in here make the economic reform that is needed to have money to get 4,500 more educators, so that year after year we can give the municipalities money to hire more educators, so that we ensure that in all municipalities there are more educators. But when we make that agreement, we must also agree with the municipalities that there must be a minimum so that we can ensure that we do not, as we do today, have black places on the map where there are simply too few adults for the children. There are two places where we disagree a little with the SF. Firstly, it is important for us in the Radical Left that it should start with economic reform. I do not believe that minimum standards can be agreed without the economic reform needed for the money to be there. Because if not all the money is there, you risk getting savings exercises in the back way. For me, it is also very important that, at the same time as we have more adults, we ensure that we do a massive training effort. That's why I think it's gonna be a little bit vague from some of you who argue that they haven't thought about day care. I mean, in my eyes, you have to do both. We must both ensure that we have a massive continuing training effort, which also applies to our day care workers in the Radical Left, we have a desire that in the long term we train all our day care workers, but also to ensure that there are not only adults in our institutions but also that they become even more skilled. That is why I think the point that some people are using the argument that we should have better quality to say that then we do not need to have more adults is nonsense. Because we need to do both: adults must be skilled, but it is also a prerequisite that there are enough adults at all. Secondly, it matters to me that the minimum standards themselves remain at municipal level, so that we ensure that there are proper standards everywhere in the country, but that there is still a freedom within the municipality to say that if there are some special institutions that you want to prioritise, you can do so. So, yes, I'm walking a little bit indignant from this debate. I think we have been bombed back and I just hope that we will soon have a new government that can take the children seriously. And it is not just enough to have a new government, because we are also hearing from the Social Democrats that there is neither ambition nor economy behind it. So let us have a government that is actually willing to do the economic reform that is needed to give the children the adults they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155405	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155413	Thank you. Now I feel a little bombed back, I'll be honest and say. I simply do not think it is right for Mrs Lotte Rod to stand here and say that the present government has somehow helped to bomb this area back. On the contrary, I believe that we have taken a great many initiatives which have really taken up the whole of the day-to-day supply area. With that said, it is fine to stand and dream from the platform with a great many wishes and visions, and it is important that we also have the opportunity to dream, as I also hear Mrs Lotte Rod do. But I also have to ask: what will the Radical Left demand of Mrs Mette Frederiksen if she gets into the situation that she wins the election? We have heard that she wants to be the prime minister of the children, and there I have to ask directly: what is it then that Radicals want to demand of a Red Prime Minister to live up to the dreams that Mrs Lotte Rod has?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155521	We will go to Mrs Mette Frederiksen with what is radical policy, and that is that an economic reform needs to be carried out that will allow 4,500 more educators and 1 billion. kr. For further training. And that's so much money that it's not the kind of thing you just fix on a single finance bill. And that's also why I said I felt bombed back. Because normally, when we discuss this, it gets shot down that you can't find the money. And that's a fair enough point of view. But where I think we have been bombed back today is that we cannot even agree with each other that there is a need to make a special effort for children. And I actually thought we agreed on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155609	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155610	But then I can reassure Mrs Lotte Rod that we agree on that. And that is actually why we have a government right now, which is in the working clothes every single day, in order to ensure better conditions for our children all the time. What I'm actually getting a little offended about is the part about putting up such a picture that we haven't done anything. We have made some good agreements together. And then it is fine to have wishes and dreams, but I would like to hear: could Mrs Lotte Rod say a little more about this economic reform? In other words, where should the money come from for economic reform? Is that the room you have to take the money from again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155649	We propose that this should be done as part of a pension reform. And that's because if we're going to find 2 billion. kr. a year, it's so much money that you don't just find it on a single financial law. This requires a reform of the size of a pension reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155707	Then we thank Mrs Lotte Rod and then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr Lotte Rod. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122155717	Thank you for the debate. I really think that we all want the Danish children and children living in Denmark to have a good childhood, and I also see that the Folketing is discussing more today than a few years ago how we can put in place early initiatives. What we are discussing today is how we do it best. If daily offers in Denmark are not just to be a care offer, but also an educational offer, then there must be time for you to play, that you can learn from yourself, that you can comfort yourself, that you can change diapers, that you can split up into teams, that you can go on trips, and that you can meet many of the ambitions set out in the curricula that are made with the educational sector. There is my claim, along with BUPL, along with the FOA, together with the leaders, with the parents, that this cannot be done with the resources available today. At the beginning of my term, I was in a daycare institution called the Troll Mound. I was there for days, and the other day I was going on a trip. When I get there, Morten says there's a leader, "Don't go on that trip anyway." You're gonna have to cover up somewhere else, 'cause somebody's sick. Then I say, "But I guess there's gonna be a temp when someone's sick." I say that because I'm used to working in a public school, and after all there's gonna be temps. No, says Morten, there won't be a substitute, because that's not the way it works here. This is another situation in the day-to-day offers, and I have to say that I am seriously concerned that the many ambitions we have for the day-to-day offers cannot be met by the standards that exist today. The daily offers must be more than just care. It shouldn't be like in, for example. England, where it is a place where you place your children and where it costs a fortune, and then they are picked up again, because in this way you can be available for the labour market. We have moved away from that, and I would really like us to make this clear in the purpose clause for the day offers. When educators call out guard in arms and share signs that spread on social media in no time and parents also share and say that they are not enough, then I get worried. When the association of nursery school managers introduces a whole new concept, namely glass children, and one who has been a kindergarten leader for many years says that the children who come now are more fragile because they are used to fighting for contact with adults, then I get worried. And when I see statistics, not only from 2009 to 2012 and not only from 2015 to 2019, but all the way back from 1986, which shows that it has just gone down again and again, then I get worried. Of course, there are fluctuations, and statistics are always manipulated, and you only use the statistics that you think fit into your own wording, but what is the basic picture, and as everyone points out, is that there has been a deterioration in quality if the number of adults is measured in the Danish daily offers, while we have raised the demands for what they should be. I do not think this is connected, and that is why the SF is going to fight for minimum standards to be introduced in Denmark. We have it as one of our 15 demands. Now Mrs Anni Matthiesen asked whether we would make demands on a new government. Yes, it has been agreed at the SF's national meeting that this will be one of the 15 demands that we bring to the negotiating table if we are to negotiate a new government basis. This will be one of the demands that will determine how our cooperation with the Social Democratic Party will be after an election, and that is because it is important to us. Many things have been said in the debate, and I like debates like this, because it is exciting to discuss children. I said that I also think that we have set back a little, at least in the discussion on minimum standards and whether it is needed. I do not think the Minister recognised that there are too few adults, and I think that changing ministers have actually done so. Then it has been said that it is very expensive to introduce minimum standards. I think it is worrying if the Minister does not think that there are too few adults out there, and I think it is worrying when the Minister says that she is weeping that SF creates a scare picture. I think we have fantastic day offers around here. I just think there are too few adults, and I actually hear those who sit out there working with it, including the leaders, say the same thing. The Minister says that it is to keep us all fooled to think that we can make minimum standards, but I do not think it is. I mean, this is going to cost 1.6 billion. kr. in the form we have put it forward. In comparison, Mr. Anders Samuelsen as a party leader walked around with the message that they have given tax relief for 1 billion. kr. a month. I mean, it's politics, and it's fair enough that you have different political views. I'm sure sir. Anders Samuelsen will find it a victory that he has done so. That's just not what we want with Denmark, so I don't think it's to fool anyone. DF was concerned that this would lead to a deterioration in quality. I do not believe that pumping 1.6 billion new kroner into some day-to-day offers which we know lack of resources will lead to a deterioration of quality. And if you put this bottom down, as we suggest we listen to another proposal, if DF wants to put at least somewhere else it won't lead anywhere to a decrease in quality, and we won't tell anyone that they can't use more than the minimum. There are also municipalities that pump more money into school, even if we have a class ceiling and say that they want a lower class ceiling. That can continue to be done. I also think that I was struck back a little when the rapporteur raised doubts as to whether DF is still in favour of the ceiling in day care at all. I went in with the hope of getting minimum standards in the daily offers, and all of a sudden I lost the ceiling in day care. It was not so encouraging, but I hope we agree that it should stay there. Then there is the Social Democracy, which I think weaves a little from day to day. You want to be Prime Minister of the children, and when you stand at BUPL's Congress, you do not want to shut down completely the need for minimum standards to be introduced, because there is a class ceiling, and what is the logic of not having a minimum standard? But when it comes down to it and you stand in the Parliamentary Chamber, it is the municipalities that are left with the monkey and have to solve that problem. There I would just like to warn the Social Democrats, despite the good speech, that there will be a day when we are sitting in the negotiating room, where a word is a word and where nice words are not enough at BUPL's congress, but where something really needs to be done. Then LA's rapporteur says that LA fears that it will be a detailed regulation to the leaders, but the leaders support this. The leaders want more resources. What binds the leaders is that they must always cover gaps, that there is always a plan of action to be made, that an employee is constantly missing and that there is always a need to be fired. It makes it impossible to develop. A minimum resource, which they themselves assess how to use, will provide better opportunities to create good and developing management. Then I have not mentioned the paradox of the fact that the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has been out in favour of regulating by law that there should be a certain number of educators at the extremes, which I personally think goes far too far into municipal self-government, but when it comes to a minimum resource that the managers decide for themselves, it is therefore a breach of municipal self-government. I don't think that makes any sense, but maybe I missed something. Then I think I will finish with Mrs Anni Matthiesen's comment on Mrs Lotte Rod. Mrs Anni Matthiesen says that it is fine to stand and dream, but I am quite convinced that within a very short period of time these will not be just dreams. We're moving pretty fast. Our government gave more money to that area. The VLAK government has given more money to this area and has put forward very good ambitions. I think there will be a massive movement towards a minimum number of adults for our children, and I look forward to that happening. And it's a political choice if we want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160511	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160512	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that it is fine to dream that we should all do it, because that is what moves some things. Having said that, I would like to ask a direct question. I could understand that this is one of the demands that the SF will make if we get a situation where there is a red majority. That's what Mr. Jacob Mark, as if this means a lot to the SF, but does it mean so much that if you don't get this done, you're not ready to point to Mrs. Mette Frederiksen as possible prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160555	We point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as a royal investigator because we consider that she will be the best offer for a majority. What our national meeting has decided, and as we have said publicly, is that this will be crucial to our cooperation. We're not going to participate in a new red-green government... which we really want to do if you don't solve these challenges with the fact that there aren't enough adults for the kids. And we have said that if the area is not taken seriously at all, it will also be crucial to the role that we can play as a support party. And I just have to say that a rapporteur for a responsible left party knows very well that there are many buttons that can be screwed on there. It may be about the desire to make a financial law or about the willingness to cooperate with the Minister. So no, we are not going to put the whole red-green majority at risk for this, but we are going to say that this is crucial for the way we can work together after an election, and it is also important for a party that wants to be a government party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160651	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160652	Thank you. You can hear that we're approaching the election. Although perhaps there may be another five months, I can hear that the rhetoric here in the Assembly Hall is being turned up a little bit, and that is really fine. Could Mr. Jacob Mark put a little more words on how this will be crucial for SF in relation to a collaboration?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160719	It is true that we are approaching a choice, and that is actually why I am trying to be very honest and say how important this is to us. And it is so important that this will be one of the 15 demands that we have when we come in and negotiate a government, and we hope and expect that we will. If we do not get this through, the SF will assess what we have got, whether we should be a support party, whether we should be a critical support party, how we should act against the Minister, whether we can be a part of a financial law. In other words, these are the tools that we have as a support party, and the questioner knows that too. But the fact that this is one of the main demands we take in when we are negotiating will be something completely new, compared to what the parties usually bring in when you negotiate government in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160758	If you listened to the debate like that, you would almost think that the elections were held. But maybe there's something that's passed my nose. However, there is at least now a brief comment to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160808	It's just to deny it. Of course we are in favour of the ceiling in day care. I just do not think we can say that because we are not in favour of minimum standards, we are also not in favour of a ceiling for day care. The fact is that this is the case in day care, and that is something else we are talking about now. But I'd really like to hear Mr. Jacob Mark: Does a minimum rating mean the number of hands, or is it the number of educators?
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160833	First of all, thank you for dissuading the rapporteur and for not going back in relation to the ceiling in day care. I appreciate that, and I'll take it with me. In relation to the number of hands and what training they should have, we have set up for adults and have said that we will not define exactly what kind of profession it is, both because it has an impact on the economy and because we also believe that there is some municipal autonomy there. In fact, I think it is a good thing that leaders and city council politicians can assess together what they have of ambition. But I would like to say that I actually think it should be a goal for the Folketing to raise the overall level of education in day-to-day offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160915	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160919	After all, we have tried to do so in several stages, in which we have set aside money in the Finance Act for specific training, both for day carers and educational assistants. But it is clear that Rome was not built in one day. And thank you for it's about hands and not necessarily about which hat you just have on your head. We are pleased about this in the Danish People's Party. But do these minimum standards also apply to day care? For then I think there is another economic picture in relation to the funding that the SF brings into the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122160951	This proposal is about crèches and kindergarten. But if the Danish People's Party comes and says to me: Jacob, what is crucial to our support, is that we also make even better standards in day care, then an agreement can be made faster than you can say Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122161010	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190122161028	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 23 January 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
