ParlaMint-DK_20191024105006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105016	The item listed as No. 1 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105030	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105058	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 72 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 21 (RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 8 (SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105150	The debate is open. And before I welcome the rapporteur, we will take a short break so that Members who do not wish to take part in the debate can leave the Chamber quietly. The Social Democrat rapporteur now has the floor. Welcome to sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105247	Thank you. The Social Democratic Party supports Bill No. L 34 on the limitation of the resource rule, and we support the other two elements which form part of the legislative proposal. We know that screening programmes mean that more cancer cases are discovered in the past, thus significantly increasing the chances of survival. It is therefore quite unreasonable, of course, that we should be called late for screening, that we should perhaps even become ill because of being called late for screening and that we should subsequently be in danger of being refused compensation. A few years ago we saw examples of a number of women who had been called late for screening programmes so that breast cancer was not discovered in time and that women were subsequently refused compensation on the basis of precisely the resource rule. It's totally unfair. Such stories undermine confidence in our patient rights, yes, it undermines confidence in our entire healthcare system. We therefore agree that it should no longer be possible to use the resource rule in relation to delayed calls for breast cancer screening, cervical cancer, colon cancer and rectum cancer. We fully recognise that very many hospitals are currently running very hard and that many places are struggling to bring the ends together, but the solution is not to weaken the screening programmes or weaken patients' rights. It is, of course, absolutely essential that we ensure that the regions have a proper financial framework to work under and that resources are included so that the regions can also keep up when, for example, we live longer and, fortunately, more children are born. It is also very gratifying, therefore, that the government has reached an agreement with the regions, which guarantees the regions 1.5 billion. kr. next year, which can help strengthen the whole health. So, overall, it is a legislative proposal that corrects a number of elements, and it makes very good sense, and that is precisely why the Social Democrats support this retabled bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105523	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. This bill is about limiting the resource rule in cancer screenings and extending the drug damage scheme in emergency and emergency situations and a little more minor things. From this point of view, the draft law lays down that it is essential to include in the Health Act the offers for examination for cervical cancer and colon and rectum cancer as patients' rights, in addition to exempting specialist dentists from the requirement to bear the costs of complaints and damages which can be attributed to these dentists and, finally, to extend the scope of the patient compensation scheme to a number of specific groups of medicinal products. What is at the heart of this, as I said, is that we specify and we uphold such absolutely fundamental patients' rights. Of course, we fully support that in the Left. It is therefore unacceptable for a late screening to cause further damage and a more difficult course of illness than it would otherwise have been thought that the patient would have had. That is why we also want to ensure that patients who are not called for screening for cancer in good time will be able to receive compensation if they suffer damage or their course of illness deteriorates in the context of a delayed call. The economy is therefore set aside for the regions to be able to fulfil their obligations to call for screenings in good time, and so it must also be possible to expect the planning of the regions to comply with those deadlines. Unfortunately, however, it has proved necessary for us to promote the legal status of patients and, among other things, to promote them. specifies that the regions are therefore not exempted from liability by reference to resource constraints or the like. In our view, patients should not end up as throwing balls in some bureaucratic system, where a reference to the resource rule becomes a free ticket to avoid liability. That is why we fully support this particular part of the legislative proposal, just as we support the remaining part of the legislative proposal. I should also like to conclude by saying that this proposal has been put forward by our then Minister for Health, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, and I can see that there is no significant change in the original legislative proposal that we tabled earlier, and which at that time also met with quite broad support in the Parliamentary Assembly. Against this background, I am also pleased to see that the draft law in the consultation answers meets with broad support, where key players such as the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. Cancer Combating, Danish Breast Cancer Organisation, Medical Association, Consumer Council etc. Expresses great satisfaction with this bill. Should questions or amendments arise now or otherwise, I shall look forward to discussing them on behalf of the Left in committee. But the Left basically supports all the elements of this bill in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105850	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech, the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024105900	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, our rapporteur is prevented from coming today, so I am therefore standing here. It is true that this is a legislative proposal which has been before and which has not been finalised. But here in the Folketing we have legislated and guaranteed the citizens some patients' rights, and we have legislated for a right of investigation and a guarantee of treatment. We have done so because we think it is important that we quickly find and treat Danes with, for example, Danes. cancer is a terrible disease which needs to be dealt with in time. We have also allocated money to the area to ensure that everyone is offered screening and treatment, but unfortunately we have seen in recent years that several regions have not complied with the agreements they have made with the Minister to ensure that the guarantee that was legislated for is respected. Since the Capital Region had therefore forgotten to call more women into breast cancer screening and there were women who had not discovered their breast cancer in time, the region's response was that it was due to lack of resources. Can the authorities refuse to provide compensation when a lack of resources is the excuse that treatment in the health system has failed to meet the requirements of the law? This was certainly not something that we thought could be done, but unfortunately the Capital Region was right and the women involved could not be compensated. Our laws and rights are worth nothing when, as a region, you can simply pull on your shoulder and say: Unfortunately, there is a shortage of resources, so we owe you nothing. That is why we welcome the law. It should and must be the case that we grant a right to citizens, so of course they must be compensated if we cannot comply with the law. We support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110049	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110059	Thank you very much, President. This bill deals with a number of legislative changes in relation to patient complaints and patient replacements. My fellow rapporteurs, who have just been up here on the platform, have explained the content very well, but I would like to add a few words to the draft law, in particular the part relating to the limitation of the rule of resources. Overall, the bill will improve patients' rights in relation to having claims for compensation. Of course, if you are called late for a cancer screening, you run the risk of a cancer being discovered too late or when you develop, which can of course be harmful to the patient. A delay can be caused by many things. Today, in the regions, reference can be made to the resource rule if the delay is due to a lack of resources in the region, that is to say, that you simply do not have enough hands and cannot do so within the given timeframes. In such a case, the region may be exempted from claims for damages. Unfortunately, this can happen and it happens very often that there are not enough resources, that there are no hands missing, and it can hardly surprise anyone who knows how pressure our healthcare system is. But it is not the patients' fault, and it must not be the patients' fault. It is therefore a good thing that we are now ensuring patients better so that, whatever the cause of the delay, they can seek compensation if the delay is, of course, detrimental to the patient. It is also positive that it is extended to cover more cancers. However, we must also remember that there will be no more resources from the fact that we are adopting this bill. That is why it is also important that we keep looking at whether we have secured the right competences and resources in the regions so that we can carry out the tasks we have. Well, that's the most important thing, since the purpose of these screening programs is, of course, to catch diseases as early as possible, so that we avoid worsening and death. In the Radical Left, we fully support this proposal and I look forward very much to the further consideration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110308	Thank you. As some have already said, it is the case that we have to deal with a legislative proposal which contains a number of elements, but the most important thing is, and remains, the first element, namely that we must ensure that hospitals cannot, of course, fail to make agreed cancer screenings on the grounds that resources are lacking. In cancer packages, it has been agreed that citizens should be offered screenings for breast cancer, cervical cancer, colon cancer and rectum cancer, and this bill ensures that patients also have access to the patient's replacement if delays or omissions of patient studies are the reason for the development of serious illness. I support that. It is totally unacceptable, as others have said, when, unfortunately, we are listening to the fact that there are patients who have become seriously ill because they have not been examined in time. As several consultation responses show, the compensation rules should apply to all diseases incurred as a result of inadequate investigation, regardless of resources. However, we are also aware that a strong focus on one area can lead to hospitals simply being forced to move resources from another important area. I would therefore also like to make sure, in the further work on the legislative proposal, that at the same time we relate to how, overall, we get an overview of whether resources for cancer investigations do not have any impact on resources for other important areas. Can one imagine, for example, that resources for specialized areas are part of concrete discussions in the context of economic agreements, so that the regions are actually obliged to draw attention to how the ends are connected? The other elements of the draft law concern the cost of complaints and compensation cases for specialists, the extension of the medical injury regime for emergency and emergency situations, some adjustments to the law on complaints and compensation, and, last but not least, it is also about dental injuries. These are mainly technical changes that the SF fully supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110521	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110533	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten considers it extremely important that the Folketing acts against the background of the quite unreasonable situation in which a number of women have been brought, as they did not get the offer of screening for breast cancer to which they were entitled. Although some of the women concerned developed breast cancer, the patient replacement assessed that the Capital Region could not incur liability and last year the Supreme Court confirmed that the region was not obliged to compensate women. This happened with reference to the so-called resource rule that we are discussing today. The problem has only been confirmed by the breast cancer scandal we have seen unfolding in Region Sjælland, especially at Ringsted Hospital. In the short term, the source of resources means that a region with a reference to resources can avoid paying compensation to patients who are injured as a result of the fact that the region does not meet its obligations in relation to the treatment guarantees. With this proposal, patients will be able to obtain compensation in the future in this situation, but, as other rapporteurs have already noted, it is only special groups of patients who are exempt from the resource rule, namely those who are injured by lack of breast cancer screening studies, cervical cancer and colon and rectum cancer. To this extent, we agree with the Ethical Council that it may be a little unfortunate and strange that the draft law only covers specific groups of patients and that it can be seen as an expression of discrimination when the possibility of granting compensation depends on the disease one has and when special guarantees are attached to diseases where private providers offer large-scale screenings. Having said that, we of course think it is extremely important that we aim to ensure that women are as safe as possible against breast cancer. It is also very good that we have introduced screening programmes, and it is of course pointless that there are women who do not get the offer anyway and then have to find that they cannot be compensated either when they have become ill. However, it does point to a recurring problem in the health service, namely that sufficient resources are not always included for the tasks we undertake. We can therefore also note with satisfaction that the document of understanding between the government, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedsliste states that a bottom must be secured under welfare, so that not only is the demographic feature covered, but there must also be a real increase in welfare. We are far from achieving this, but an economic agreement has been reached with the regions, which will ensure that the demography in particular is covered. This is the first step towards a fairer economy. For Enhedslisten, it is absolutely crucial that when we issue new guarantees, we also have to ensure that sufficient resources are included to solve the task. With those comments, I can say that the Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110812	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. So we go further in the rapporteur's line and welcome Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110823	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we Conservatives are very pleased with the proposal. Indeed, we would rather spend the money on screening and prevention, which allows for successful treatment, than spend the money on replacements when patients have become terminally ill. After all, the proposal strengthens patients' ability to be compensated in cases where the regions have simply failed to fulfil their obligations when it comes to having sufficient capacity to examine patients adequately. After all, it is a question of screening for breast cancer, cervical cancer, cancer of the colon and rectum, which has not been carried out in good time in relation to patients' rights. It should no longer be possible to make excuses for the fact that there is not enough capacity for patients to have cancer and that there has been no screening within the time limit, because patients must, of course, be compensated. We also consider it right to exempt specialist dental practitioners who do not provide services to which subsidies are granted from the regions from having to pay for complaints and damages. It is also very gratifying that we are extending the system of compensation for medicinal products in cases where patients are subject to medical damage as a result of medicines handed over from certain vessels and during international missions. It all strengthens patients' ability to receive compensation. Overall, the proposal increases patients' safety and the possibility of obtaining compensation, which is why we are happy to forward the proposal to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024110958	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111009	Thank you for the floor. Patient replacement for patients, e. g. In relation to women who have not been called for screening in time is a natural thing. When we have a decision to call for screening, it must also be complied with, and if you then become ill afterwards, it is the most reasonable thing in this world that you should then receive compensation. This must be done because of the personal costs that have been incurred, but also because it is expensive and can result in more attention being paid in the future to calling patients in time. This rule of allocation of resources is likely to mean a different priority in the regions, and I can be a little concerned about whether that screening will be at the expense of healing people who have other diseases. Therefore, I also think that prevention is a very good thing in relation to cervical, colon and rectum cancer, but what do we have of other things? In other words, we should perhaps look at what we should give priority to health in order to prevent as much disease as possible. In relation to the demographic coverage that has been given to the regions, it is, of course, very good, but I can nevertheless be concerned whether it is enough to take account of these new measures, and I therefore ask the Minister whether it can be denied that this will have an impact on the regions' resource priorities in the future. All in all, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111155	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks, and we go further in the rapporteur's line and welcome Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111204	Thank you, President. Although it is obviously neither me nor the rest of the Folketing who are responsible for the fact that a number of women have not received the treatment they should have in time, I cannot help feeling responsibility, and that may not even be very rational. But when you personally, like me, have had this terrible disease close to your body, this means something, and when I hear the other rapporteurs and their speeches, I am also reassured, because you have to be able to count on the public sector to live up to its share of this social contract, and that means that we must of course be able to deliver in this area. That is why we are happy about it, and I would like to commend the Minister and say that if this is the level of legislation in the future, then it will be a very good parliamentary year. We are very pleased and very proud to be able to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and I welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111304	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 34 amends the way in which the so-called resource rule is applied, and we do so in favour of people who have been injured in screenings. That's the main aim of the bill. Then we bring the legal status of specialist dental practitioners back to before June 1, 2018. These are both sensible changes that we support in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111343	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have thus been through the ranks of the party rapporteurs, and congratulations to the debutantes. I shall give the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111400	Thank you for that and thank you for the broad support for the bill. It is, of course, a series of sub-proposals, as the rapporteurs have mentioned, but the main point is that it is proposed to amend the law in order to ensure that patients who are not called in on time for cancer screening due to lack of resources will be able to obtain compensation for any damage, not only in the case of injuries following delayed calls for breast cancer screening, but also with the amendment of the law, we ensure that patients who are called late for the screening of cervical cancer and intestinal cancer will have the same right. As far as the future is concerned, patients who are covered by the national screening programmes for breast, cervical and intestinal cancer will not find themselves in a situation where they cannot be compensated for damage caused by delayed calls for cancer screening. The economic issue has been mentioned by several rapporteurs, and I understand that, but it is the case that the regions have already been given the money to carry out the screening programmes. So there is no excuse for not having those screening programmes implemented. There are also a few other minor elements in the bill. One, as a couple of rapporteurs have also mentioned, is to amend the law in relation to specialist dentists so that they do not have to bear the costs of any complaints and compensation cases in which they might be involved. It was thus never intended that the specialist doctors should bear these expenses, but it was an unintentional result of the law which entered into force on 1 June 2018 after the Dentist Aid Agreement was terminated. We are now correcting that with this bill and returning to the legal state that was before 1 June 2018, which means that it is the regions that will have to bear the costs again. It goes back to what it was before. Finally, the bill once again extends the scope of patient compensation so that more can be compensated. This time it is a question of improving the possibilities of obtaining compensation after a drug injury. You can already receive compensation if you are injured after using a medicine, but there has been a gap in the law so far, and this is what is professionally called medical coffins, which are therefore those that are packed with a range of medicines and equipment in lifeboats and life-rafts for the treatment of injuries and acute disease in emergencies at sea, and it is also in relation to medicines that are used in special emergency and emergency situations. So I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, I am answering the questions that the committee had to put to me along the way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111657	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for the Minister at this stage. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111729	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111743	Thank you. Let me say straight away that the Social Democracy can of course support the bill to strengthen confidence and security in health research. It is a re-submission of the previous government's proposals, which we also supported at the time. Information about our health, about our heritage, about our genes and about diseases we do not know about is one of the most sensitive things to do, and it is also an incredibly important work because we can develop new treatment for the benefit of patients and relatives through research. The prerequisite for doing good health research in Denmark is that the Danes have confidence that their confidential health information is handled properly and properly, while not making it unnecessarily troublesome and unnecessarily bureaucratic for researchers to access the information they need. With this bill we take both a step to ensure the Danes' safety and confidence in health research, and we take a step to make it simpler and faster for researchers to access crucial health data. The two considerations do not necessarily have to be one another's opposites. Both considerations are important if we are to ensure a good framework for health research in Denmark. That is why we will be calling for scientific assessments of research projects with sensitive data where there is a risk of significant health secondary findings. It no longer makes sense to distinguish between wet and dry health data, as the law does today. It must be the degree of sensitivity of the information and not whether it is a blood sample in a freezing bag or whether it is some data in an excelarch on a computer that determines whether a scientific assessment is being carried out. However, as I said, the Social Democrats support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111936	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024111944	Thank you for the floor. This bill, if I may say so, goes on two important legs. On the one hand, it should strengthen citizens' confidence that personal data are used scientifically sensibly and, on the other hand, it should provide a better framework for research into health record data by ensuring a more effective procedure for accessing that information for research purposes. And these are two very important agendas that we in the Left fully support in securing the best framework for. After all, we live in a digital world, whether you like it or not, where data is becoming increasingly important for our development. Therefore, data are also increasingly exchanged in health care for the benefit of both the development of health research and the sector in general, which is of great benefit to patients. For more flexible and efficient access to data in health research can provide us with answers to many important questions. This can allow us to track health and disease patterns, give us better insight into the possibilities of prevention, and then, in general, it can dress the health care system to target treatments to an even greater extent again for the great benefit of patients. But there is no reason to hide the fact that it is We must therefore ensure that patients can be safe and confident that their health data is treated with great confidentiality and respect. And that is why I am very pleased that today's bill addresses the difficult balancing process. Firstly, it is proposed to introduce requirements for scientific assessment of health data science research projects with sensitive bioinformatic data where there is a risk of significant secondary health findings. Secondly, it is proposed to create a better framework for research by transferring the competence to approve the transmission of health record data for research, statistics or planning by the Board of Patient Safety to the Regional Councils; by the process being carried out within 35 days; and finally by the introduction of the possibility for management at the place of treatment to allow authorised health care professionals to obtain health record information for research purposes if the research project, or the disclosure of information, is approved by the appropriate authority. We can back all this up in the Left. We are confident that here we strike exactly the right balance between safeguarding the confidence and security of patients in relation to the processing of their data, while at the same time opening up a greater flexibility and efficiency to health researchers, so that we can all benefit from the knowledge they can produce. I have been reminded that today's legislative proposal has not substantially changed compared to the legislative proposal put forward by the previous government in the parliamentary elections, and that is all well and good for such a person as myself. That is why I am also dealing with the debate that took place on the legislative proposal at that time. As you know, I was not the health rapporteur for the Left at the time, but I have been told that there was support for the bill that there were actually some pretty good discussions in the Health Committee, especially in terms of defining the role and workload of the scientific committees. I have also been told that the committee work actually facilitated, yes, some good and constructive discussions on exactly what I look forward to following up with the new Health Committee. And I also think that, following on from that, there is a need to clarify the question of consent and the definition of secondary findings, which I can also read from the consultation answers that there has been some ambiguity about. I am quite sure that and other good things that we will find some good solutions to in the committee work that lies ahead of us, and I would just like to conclude by saying that the Left supports this bill in its entirety regardless of what.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024112409	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024112416	Thank you, President. L 35 is about strengthening citizens' security in relation to and trust in health research. Security and trust sounds almost like a slogan you know, but at least that's what this bill is supposed to ensure. The draft law aims to ensure a better framework for research into health record information by ensuring a more effective procedure for accessing this information for research, statistics or planning purposes. Today it is the case that patients are protected by the committee law. The aim of the bill is to protect patients from unnecessary harm if they are part of drug trials. If a study is considered to be a drug trial, the study must be notified to the Danish Medicines Agency and the Scientific Committees, after which one looks at whether it is ethically justified, and it also makes sense that other trials where intervention takes place have the possibility to be evaluated. We must ensure good data retention and a secure approach when it is used for either statistics or research, and we must be able to guarantee people that their data is not misused and ensure their anonymity when their information is withdrawn. So, of course, I would like to know whether the Minister can guarantee that this proposal will do so. Another bone in the bill is that the competence to pass on patient information from the Patient Safety Agency to the Regional Councils will be transferred, which is supposed to place the competence in the secretariats of the Regional Scientific Committees in order to reduce the number of different bodies to which researchers are addressing. But we are not quite sure about that, because first of all you cannot see that it reduces the number of agencies when you go from one to five. And how does the Minister think this into a health reform? Even the Danish Regions do not consider it appropriate to shift competence, so our health rapporteur would like to ask a lot about that. According to the consent part, we stand where we have always stood: that we believe that consent should be given to gaining insight into purely private matters and other confidential information from patient records. That's section 46. 2. The last element is the possibility that the management at the treatment site may grant an authorisation to authorised health care professionals if it is approved by the various bodies. And here it is important that it is only for the specific research project and not for other information. So with a few questions for the Minister, we can live up to the confidence and confidence that you write about here, but we look forward to the further discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024112728	Thank you to the working health rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mrs Lise Bech. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Stinus Lindgreen of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024112741	Thank you very much. I have been particularly excited to be standing here talking about this particular bill, because I actually thought that time was over, but then I was allowed to talk about bioinformatic research, and then even from the country's finest platform. A few months ago I was sitting out on the other side and would have been very curious to hear what happened in this Chamber today because it would directly affect my own research. And this bill contains a number of important elements. Firstly, we want to equate research projects in so-called wet and dry data, so it requires the same scientific approval, and this is a very important step. This will increase the protection of the individual's data in the regions, in the country. Whether I'm doing a bioinformatic analysis on any data I've just generated from a blood sample or whether I'm using genetic data I have from the past makes no difference. In both cases, I can make so-called coincidences and therefore it makes sense that both projects are regulated in the same way and with the same ethical approval. And it is also good to see that it has been chosen to specify which types of data are considered to be of a particularly sensitive nature and therefore must be covered by the law. Secondly, the approval of projects dealing with information from patient records is to be transferred from the Patient Safety Agency to the Regional Scientific Sethic Committees. This action too is very sensible. As a researcher, it makes the process much easier to see through, which in itself is an advantage, and at the same time it makes use of the competences already located in the regional committees, because it also has many years of experience in evaluating health science projects, and it seems quite natural to bring them together in one place. Thirdly, we will then introduce a 35-day deadline for the examination of applications for approval of research projects, and that is a very good idea too. You can and here I speak from experience • spend a very long time waiting when you want to start a research project, so it will have a great positive effect out there in the research environments. Fourthly, the bill will allow authorised health professionals to obtain relevant journal data if they have a research role in relation to the specific project. This is a change that will make the process more flexible without compromising the safety and integrity of patients, because it will take place within the framework of an approved research project, because the healthcare professional is subject to professional secrecy and because access is always logged. So we're quite comfortable with that part of the bill, too. So all in all, this is a legislative proposal that solves some very concrete problems, both in terms of the protection of the individual's data and in terms of making the process of applying for research projects more flexible. So in the Radical Left we support the draft law and I personally look very much forward to the further work in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113032	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Radical Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113042	Thank you. After the researcher, I stand here as the health care professional and have actually also tried to be the patient. It is important to ensure a very good framework for the use of health data for research and, at the same time, the process of applying for research access to different health data, it is essential that the integrity and privacy of the citizen and the confidence in research are maintained. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with right now aims to balance the consideration between better research framework and patient information in terms of protecting the integrity and privacy of the citizen. It is of course important that we ensure scientific assessment of all health data science research projects. Today, a distinction is made between so-called wet and dry data. Some people have already said something about this, but it is therefore a matter of tissue or of numbers and letters and characters. Today it is only the wet data that must be reported and subjected to a scientific assessment. Of course, we support the fact that dry data should also be reported. A proposal to simplify the internal delegation also makes a great deal of sense immediately, and so does a simplification in terms of being able to obtain health record information for research purposes. Trust is really good, but we must also remember that security needs to be balanced, so it also means that simplification must continue to ensure that patients continue to have consent and access to knowledge about the extent to which personal data are used for research purposes. The SF supports the proposal, but in committee we will seek to clarify precisely the legal aspects of the patient, because we think there is room for them to be clarified further, including in this legislative proposal. But support for us, of course, to make things as simple and as flexible as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113259	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113307	Thank you for that, President. As I said, this is a draft law that we have dealt with in the Parliamentary Assembly and, at the previous reading, we pointed out from the Enhedslisten that we naturally welcomed the introduction of a scientific assessment of research projects in the field of health science, but we also share the concern of the Medical Association with regard to the rather unclear definition of which research projects are to be subject to a real scientific committee assessment. There we would like a slightly clearer definition of which criteria are used for a scientific committee assessment and which research projects should be evaluated. This is an issue which, as I said earlier, we will pursue in committee. As has already been mentioned, the draft law does not elaborate on how the patient's right not to be informed, i.e.: the possibility to renounce knowledge of secondary findings is. This should be clarified. The same applies to the fact that secondary findings are personal and that information on such findings may not be disclosed, even if findings of genetic variation may mean that a family member may have the same variation. We support the transfer of the Regional Scientific Seth Committees from the Board of Patient Safety, with the reservation that we would like to be sure that there are sufficient resources to solve the task of the Scientific Seth Committees, especially when strict deadlines are introduced that the Board of Patient Safety has not had. Of course, the deadlines are good for the researchers who apply for approval, but it is important that they do not get in the way of proper procedures to ensure that the criteria for the projects are in order. Without sufficient resources, there is a risk of quality falls, which may weaken patients' confidence that we are looking after their data well enough. We will find out in committee whether the regions will be compensated for the additional costs that they incur and whether the funding is realistic in relation to the challenge. In order to reduce the collegial importance of the approval of other doctors' projects by doctors in the committee system, consideration should be given, in addition, to strengthening the weight of laymen in the committee system, while at the same time providing personal data and data processing skills. Finally, in the Enhedslisten we find it a pity that the legislative proposal does not clarify clear rules for consent. It is a pity that the draft law is being retabled without any opinion being given on this essential aspect, especially because the proposal is about citizens' safety and confidence in health research. The vast majority of citizens want to give their consent to research because they have confidence in health care, they want to pass on data for the sake of research and the community's best and thus contribute to improving the general health of the population. They just want to be asked first. The medical societies have made a joint statement that the protection of confidentiality in the medical-patient relationship always comes before other considerations. This principle is important at a time when we are increasingly collecting data on the individual patient for the benefit of the community and research. In the Enhedslisten we support that principle as we believe that individuals should have ownership of their own data and be the one who decides which data can be shared with whom and how. When in the bill in § 21b paragraph. 2 states that the competent committee must weigh up foreseeable disadvantages for each research participant in relation to the benefit for other current and future patients; yes, then the disadvantages should never be about collecting or passing on data against the patient's wishes. This will seriously compromise the doctor-patient relationship. We believe that it would have been obvious to include the possibility of meta-consciousness, as proposed by the Ethical Council back in 2015. As I said, we will last continue to work for the introduction of a model of consent, such as: the proposal from the Ethical Council. But, overall, we have to say that, overall, we see the proposal as a step forward, which we support, and, as I said, we will try to find answers to the outstanding questions in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113658	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113705	Thank you. I would like to begin by informing you that we in the Conservative People's Party support the bill, which aims to strengthen citizens' security and confidence in health research and to create an improved framework for health research. We live in a time when things are going really fast. Technological development is accelerating and new opportunities are constantly emerging. This is not least the case in the field of research, and the fact that genome banks are being built up at the moment gives almost unbridled opportunities for research into diseases, but it also makes it run cold down your back when you think about what it would mean if the information were to fall into the wrong hands. That is why it is also necessary for legislation to ensure that you, as a citizen, can feel safe in relation to your health information. The bill contains elements that strengthen safety and confidence in health research, including a number of reinforcements in relation to access to journal material to ensure that listings in the electronic health record are recorded by so-called logging. It also ensures that the researcher is an authorised health professional who carries out research projects as part of his employment in the health care sector, and also ensures that researchers only have access to the information that is specifically needed for the specific research project. At the same time, it is planned that access to research in the journal material will take place more quickly via a maximum processing time, which is a positive thing. So we are happy to forward the proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113848	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024113856	In the alternative, we see a lot of good things in this proposal. The first is to adapt the legislation so that, as technological progress progress progress progresses, biological and digitised data can be treated on an equal footing and passed on the information and knowledge needed in development work. We think it is good to strengthen the confidence and security of citizens and that personal data is scientifically soundly used in health research, and here the introduction of requirements for scientific assessment of health data science research projects is highly appropriate. We think it is a good thing that both research projects involving the Committee Act and other research projects used for health record data are dealt with in the same system, thus making maximum use of the data and of the experience gained. It is good that we are introducing a 35-day deadline for the processing of research applications, and it is good to facilitate the access of research to data. This also applies to the possibilities for obtaining research projects already approved. On the other hand, there is something that we should look at a little more in relation to the sensitive information. Consideration must be given to the extent to which research is to be undertaken while protecting patients' data, including the existence of data which may be difficult to anonymise. The last thing we would like to have looked at in committee is the possibility of citizens' consent. How do we handle it so we're sure they're safe about it? Do we have to make rules, do we have to have a model? I hope we will be able to address this in committee. We recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114050	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114059	Thank you. For a number of years I have been advocating that if you had to come to parliament, you wouldn't have to come straight from school; it was good if you had any work experience before. And I'd like to thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen for being the best proof of my position, and that's nice. I think, in fact, when I was listening to the rapporteurs on this proposal, that the rapporteur of the Left described precisely and in cash what this proposal is about also SF's rapporteur and Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who raises some legitimate concerns. Then, I think, we can show that, across political parties, we can actually improve and lift such a case here. I think that's really good. And I welcome the future work we will have in the Committee on Health, if that is the line we are taking here. So much praise to the rapporteurs and also great praise to the Minister for this proposal. I do not want to go into a long list, because the rapporteur of the Left did so incredibly well, but perhaps just sum up that when there is a scientific, ethical assessment, a decentralization of decisions and an effective approach for smoother procedures and the transfer of specific decision-making powers to professionals, that is a good thing. And that is why, of course, we can also support it here in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114224	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114234	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 35 is essentially a re-submission of a bill tabled by the previous government in February 2019. And that, of course, is in itself a citizen of quality. At the same time, however, it is also a good and necessary proposal. When the Education and Research Committee was in Japan in September 2018, I chaired the delegation, and in that capacity I had the pleasure of opening a Danish-Japanese conference on bioinformatics, and I also heard several of the speeches that followed. It is a discipline that offers some very great opportunities. The quality of data in Denmark is high, science is developing very quickly, and computers are getting better and better. And what I understood at the conference in Japan at least was that great computational power is not an insignificant part of the prerequisites for success in this area. And here it is of course important that we neither under-regulate nor over-regulate areas which are undergoing very rapid development. Under-regulation leads to too uncritical an end to the means. Overregulation does not mean that research is not carried out; it simply means that research is not carried out in Denmark. It will then just be carried out elsewhere where you have other regulatory regimes. But here we have a sensible balance between over- and under-regulation, and of course we support this in the Liberal Alliance, just as we did before the elections. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114441	Thank you to the rapporteur. All the rapporteurs of the political parties have spoken, giving the floor to the Minister for Health and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114451	Thank you. Thank you for all the comments made by the rapporteurs. As several have noted, it is quite true that this is not a new proposal that we are discussing today. It is a proposal that has received a great deal of support in general, and I would like to start by saying that, for me, it balances two absolutely crucial things. On the one hand, we are dealing with citizens' security, citizens' confidence in the processing of their personal data and the relationship between doctor and patient. It is absolutely essential that there is confidence and security when we talk about it. On the other hand, these are conditions for health research, which we know will result in new treatments that save lives every day. And I would just like to mention two specific areas, some of which are really central. One is the cancer area. We just got new numbers this week that show that today it's 63 percent that survives cancer 5 years after diagnosis. That is an increase of 11 percentage points over 15 years ago. There is still plenty of room for improvement, and we must work together on that. But this shows that research is useful, new methods of treatment, cancer packages and other things are useful. The second is in the field of heart disease. In 2013 it wasn't that many years ago there were 136 deaths per year. 100,000 inhabitants. It is now reduced to 121 deaths, i.e. from 136 to 121 per person. 100,000 inhabitants. Again: There are several reasons for this, but the importance of research cannot be underestimated here. I would therefore like to say that it is very, very good speeches that have come from the rapporteurs. Because it's about exactly the two things you have to balance, and that's what the bill here does. Firstly, the aim is to strengthen citizens' security and confidence in health research. And I stress the word'strength', because citizens can already be confident and confident that their personal data are being properly researched. With the bill, we strengthen that security by proposing a requirement for scientific assessment of selected health data science research projects. Then why? Well, with the research methods we have today, it can, for example. be re-segregulating then it is possible to research data sets that contain a large amount of information that you have not had access to in the past, and it is also difficult to say in advance what the full significance of the findings will be. We would like to ensure that research into such sensitive data is carried out scientifically fully securely so that we ensure precisely the rights, integrity and privacy of citizens. Secondly, there is the aim of the bill to create a better framework for health research in Denmark. We will do this by reducing the number of bodies that researchers are going to have to deal with today in connection with research into health record data, and by introducing a deadline of these 35 days for processing. In addition, it is proposed to improve the framework for research carried out close to the clinic by introducing the possibility for authorised health professionals to obtain their own medical records for use in their research under certain conditions. This is a rather comprehensive legislative proposal and, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, there are also some technical details, which is why I and, of course, the entire Ministry of Health are at the disposal of the committee work which is now coming after first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114834	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114900	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mrs Mette Gjerskov from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024114912	This is quite a party today, because it is the first legislative proposal on the environment, and then it is one of them that is really good, because this is about protecting our drinking water. And if you have not already got used to the term bnbo, you might as well get started, because these are drilling protection areas, and that is what this bill is about. We take care of the drinking water and the use of spray poison near our water wells. The Government's bill means that there will be demands on the municipalities to review all the protection areas where spray poison is used professionally. The aim is, of course, that local authorities should intervene with local solutions if they discover that drinking water is in danger of contamination by spray. Of course, this is not something that comes as a surprise. I think the Social Democratic Party supports that proposal. Over the years, many citizens have rightly accused the Danish Parliament of not securing drinking water well enough. Now comes a proposal where we have come very far. I believe that it is not many years ago that we fought to get such small-scale protection zones around the wells of water. That's what we discussed in the Folketing. So now we have a proposal that goes a huge step further. We are not finished, but work on the drilling-related protection areas may even be something for which future generations thank us, because it is far more extensive than what we have done in the past. Because you can't just draw a circle around a water well and then for example. Get a spray ban out there. Water does not come rolling up like a fountain; vertically up from the ground. There are wise hydrologists who can tell us about the underground movements of the water... it's all very fascinating, but also a bit complicated. And that's why we have the bnbos, and that's why the state has designated the areas. We must be able to protect our drinking water. In concrete terms, the municipalities must keep an eye on it and the municipalities must report. And the protection may consist not only of spray-poisoning but also of afforestation that is found at local level, or of ecology, crop-free areas or nature projects. This is a party for nature, it's a feast for biodiversity, it's a party for drinking water, it's a really, really good step on the way. I welcome the fact that this is part of the pesticide agreement... the amendment to the pesticide agreement last year... it was at least very broadly supported, and the bill here implements it. So I look forward to the discussion and hope that the pants will last for a very broad adoption of this very good proposal, which will therefore provide us and future generations with clean drinking water directly from the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024115317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. We move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr Cryer. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024115327	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity also to thank the Minister for bringing forward the bill. And as Mrs Gjerskov has just said, it is precisely a follow-up to the supplementary agreement we made before the elections, when we on the Left were sitting at the end of the table, but it was also a broad political agreement, so I am glad that we now have the first reading here today, where all parties with a few exceptions, including the New Citizens' Party, are legally excused, since the agreement was reached before the elections are around the table. Because, of course, we need to protect, watch and continue to have clean and good drinking water in Denmark and I do not think anyone disagrees with that. It's something very unique to our lovely country. It is also important, of course, that we also include all aspects and nuances in the measures and in the debate that we have on this issue. There are a number of these so-called protection areas, which Mrs Mette Gjerskov mentioned, which have been designated and which need to be investigated. They are located in different areas, some on farmland, about half, and some in other areas. And again, there are parts of the areas where pesticides are actually used in a professional context and elsewhere where they are not used. I mention this simply to say that, unfortunately, there are many other sources of potential pollution that we must also bear in mind when we talk about groundwater and drinking water in general. Let me just mention the many I think it is over 1,000 old landfill sites that have been identified, where there may also be a potential threat to our groundwater. I think Denmark's Radio ran a campaign on this a few weeks ago. There may be urban industrial areas and there may be private households, all of which have an impact on the overall picture. So I think it is important that we look at whether the stakes we make here from Things are also where we get the really good effect, because that is what we agree we want. And it can be said that when we talk about protecting our drinking water and our groundwater, it is, unfortunately, many times the sins of the past that we are trying to make up for by cleaning up. The groundwater we know today is probably about 40 years old, which means that what is leaking through is something that has happened many years ago at least. But that does not change the fact that we also have to look forward and make sure that we do not repeat it or do something like it forward-looking. I am also pleased that we are looking at the influences and thus also the pilots who are affected by this in relation to providing the compensations and compensations to which the pilots should be entitled. Because you can say that as a pilot owner you are not necessarily responsible for the fact that there happens to be some groundwater and thus a drilling on your land. Of course, we must also be involved in looking into this when we make these agreements, or that is to say, that we are allowing the municipalities to make the agreements which must form the basis for us to move forward in this direction. Of course, the replacements also have to reflect the loss of production, which of course also varies according to the type of soil and crop, etc. that you have around the country. In any case, it is important for us in the Left that the agreements that are being concluded also take place, as far as possible, in voluntary cooperation between municipalities and pilots, as we are pleased to see from the text of the agreement that we had made in the spring, as I said. We therefore also expect that voluntary agreements will succeed far along the way, so that we will just avoid this compulsion, which is not nice. And I believe that everyone has realised that it is a social responsibility to ensure that this is the case by the legislator, it is the case by the landowner, and that is the interaction within which we must make the agreements. So voluntaryness and compensation to pilots is one of the things that I also expect the Minister to pay particular attention to in the forward-looking process. To conclude with what I started by saying, we must also look at the effects of the various measures we take in connection with the talk of water protection and groundwater protection, so that, as one can say a little popularly, but which is nevertheless important, we get the most protection and the most environment for the money that is now and for the effort that is being made. With those words, of course, we in the Left can support the legislative proposal that lies here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024115736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024115745	Thank you. This draft law on mandatory municipal risk assessment of the so-called borehole protection areas, also known as bnbo, as Mette Gjerskov said, we have heard that word many times before, after all, is a consequence of the additional agreement to the pesticide strategy 2017-2021, which the Danish People's Party and almost all other parties in the Danish Parliament are included in. I helped negotiate it myself for the Danish People's Party. In fact, we have always pointed out that there is no documented need to make spray-free bnbos to ensure groundwater. It is therefore a question of limiting the use of legal pesticides, which have already been assessed and authorised under the strictest EU regulation in relation to leaching to groundwater. We need to take care of our drinking water, and so do we, but when you see the bill, you could actually be led a little to think that we in Denmark have a big problem with our groundwater. We do not, on the contrary. We have some of the world's best drinking water, and we can generally drink our groundwater uncleaned. The places where undesirable substances are now found above the limit value are almost exclusively those which have long been banned. Together with the other measures we have taken over the years in this area, groundwater is now well protected. But groundwater, as a previous speaker mentioned, is being formed over decades. It takes approx. Forty years before it becomes drinking water, and that is why it will, unfortunately, take a number of years before we see the full effect. In other words, with this bill, which we support, I would just like to say that we are not beyond the problems because it is the sins of the past. The Danish People's Party agreed to the Supplementary Agreement in January to ensure that the broad political desire for spray-free bnbo is implemented in a sensible way, which among other things. ensure that pilots receive full compensation for the losses they suffer. It is and it has been a cardinal point for the Danish People's Party that in this process the farmer is treated properly and fairly in respect of section 73 of the Constitution on the inviolability of ownership, and that the expropriation must be made against total compensation. The farmer must therefore be guaranteed full and complete compensation under market conditions, which is also the wording of the political agreement. I would like to see exactly that in the preface of the law, so that once and for all it is established with seven-inch nails that ownership exists. Similarly, it should be quite clear in the comments to the legal text that municipalities make an overall estimate of the need for action, so that this applies explicitly to the Bnbos. Otherwise, there could be a very large change in the current set of rules, which could have major consequences on other areas. We cannot afford to take the risk of large productive areas being taken out of production on the basis of overall estimates. We only accept this for the Bnbos, and it must be quite clear. Short time has been set aside for this process, and the municipal work on making risk assessments and concluding the voluntary agreements in each bnbo between the farmer, water supply and the municipality must therefore be started immediately, and this must be done on a professional and equal basis. I would urge the Minister to actively follow this process and intervene if there are municipalities that do not take the necessary steps to reach these voluntary agreements on the relevant bnbos. As has already been said, farmers must, of course, be fully replaced for current and future losses, which such an agreement would have to bring to agricultural production in each of them. Looters and farmers will be in a very unfamiliar negotiating situation with the municipality, so professional and legal assistance and consultants should actually be made available to the farmer. It should be part of the municipal task. However, we support the proposal and we look forward to further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120212	Thank you. There are questions. Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120216	I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. But just to clarify, I would like to ask: should I understand the speech by the Danish People's Party rapporteur that the Danish People's Party does not believe that the use of spray poison today can have any risk to drinking water? The rapporteur spoke a lot about the sins of the past, and these are the ones we see in drinking water today. Does the Danish People's Party not believe that the use we have of spray poison today can lead to a risk for our drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120254	No, in fact, the rapporteur does not think so, because today we have some thoroughly regulated pesticides that cause them to be dissolved before they reach groundwater. So there's no risk. I would just like to say, in the event that you think that there is a risk, that this product should not have been approved at all. That's what the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is for. So I don't think it's that hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120319	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120321	But isn't it the case that we get smarter all the time? Now the minister has started to expand the number of samples you take. In the past, when you sinned, you thought that everything was good and that there were no problems. And it was almost thought that Roundup could almost be drunk so fantastic it was and that it almost disappeared before it hit the ground. Could the rapporteur not imagine that we could risk it in the future too? I'm saying this because from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party... has the time passed? That fg. President Yes). Okay, I'm not saying anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120414	It's only 1⁄2 minutes, and it's a short time when you have a lot on your mind. Now it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120418	Thank you. I think it is very good that something is coming in other than what we have today, so that we will be screening much more. In fact, I think that is important, and we should have done so many years ago. However, funds that are approved today and must be used in Denmark today are harmless in that they have to be dissolved before they reach groundwater, and that is something about within two years. So they can never reach the groundwater. By the way, our limit value is the lowest in the EU it is so low that it is actually down to what we can measure. We can hardly measure lower than that, so our limit value is as it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120504	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120505	You could say that these drillings are a kind of wound down the surface of the earth, so I guess it's also a little the thought, when you look at these areas in particular, and why there could be a particular challenge here. However, I would just like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with me that, precisely with the efforts we are making, we also have an eye on the various potential sources of pollution that lie there. Now I myself mentioned before landfills; there are many other potential sources of pollution, and now we are making a special effort here because of among other things. the particular risk of these drillings. However, in general terms, in other words, when we talk about the protection of our groundwater, does the rapporteur not agree with me that we have a broad range of measures and that we need to take action where we can professionally see that there is the greatest risk of our drinking water being at risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120546	Yeah, that's right. I agree with that, for many of the sins of the past are also about something quite different from agriculture. However, I would just like to say, with regard to agriculture and agriculture, that we have had protection in the past too. We've had these 25-metre zones, so we've been protected. And we are using authorised pesticides and, if they are toxic, they should not be approved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120614	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120625	Thank you. This is indeed a very good proposal, and I really think that the consultation answers testify to this, because there is broad support for this new system for the protection of our groundwater. It is a much more targeted system in which both the risks are assessed, but it is also possible to use different instruments and preferably in a very good and constructive interaction with the local parties. That's what this bill really does. In other words, it is an implementation of a supplementary agreement of which we are part and which empowers the Minister to require the municipalities to lay down rules for the examination of these drilling-related protection areas by the municipalities. The bill also contains an authorisation to make an obligation to report. We think that is also very sensible. We see this as the first step towards a completely new system for the protection of our drinking water. We have among other things. noted that the Danish Nature Conservation Association writes in their consultation answer that they also want to see an effort in relation to the groundwater-forming areas we do too. We therefore welcome the reply from the Ministry, which states that the current rules can therefore also be applied in groundwater-forming areas and that a concrete identification of the necessary measures will be made in this respect. So we're really happy about that too. As I have said, we are also pleased with the obligation to report, because many different municipalities are going to carry out the risk assessments and the measures needed to deal with the risks, and it is also going to be very interesting to follow that work. Are there major differences across municipalities? Does this mean that there might be a need to adjust the rules along the way? So we look forward very much to the work, and we think it is so good that with this new groundwater protection system a model has been found that so far enjoys the support of, well, virtually all stakeholders in this area, and we very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120846	There is one comment from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120849	Thank you to the rapporteur for his comments. I just want to see how the rapporteur feels about this relationship with the compensation, that is to say with those who have land in these areas. One can say that there may be places where one has had the land for generations, and then one finds out that there is a reservoir underneath, and then comes the local waterworks and for natural reasons lays a drilling either directly on the ground or perhaps right on the other side of the table. Would the Radicals not agree with me that we must be sure that the agreements concluded by the municipalities with the pilots will provide full and complete compensation for any loss suffered as a pilot? After all, it is somewhere innocuous that there should be drilling on either your own soil or on the neighbouring ground because of groundwater.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024120933	Now I have also read the consultation answer from Agriculture & Food, which I assume is what Mr. Jacob Jensen refers to, and I have also read the reply from the Ministry, which says that there are rules that go a long way to addressing the questions raised in the hearing answer. I also know that there should be particularly good opportunities to be compensated here in the initial phase, while it becomes more difficult if you oppose as a pilot. So maybe conditions are getting a little lower in the longer term. But right now there should actually be an opportunity to get extra good compensation if you're working on this transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121012	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121013	That's fine. But it can be said that it is a form of expropriation, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also mentioned. In other words, you have a right to have your land and to use it for production purposes within the applicable rules and approved funds, etc., and that right is then curtailed for obvious reasons, namely because we need to protect groundwater where there are particular challenges. But it must also mean, from a radical point of view, that the principles of the constitution are upheld, that is to say, that you also have the right to the compensation that goes with it. I just want to know if that's not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121046	Well, as I understand both the answer given by the Minister to the specific question in the hearing answer and the discussion that has been about this agreement and now the legislative proposal, there are very good opportunities for compensation in this transitional phase. The compensation will then perhaps be a little less good if you first oppose it. But I know there are very good opportunities to be compensated. So we don't come as far as I get it, stealing somebody's land like a thief at night. We'll make up for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121124	Thank you. I am trying to see whether I can be a little brief, because I really think that the proposal has been explained quite well. However, like Mrs Mette Gjerskov of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to take the liberty of exulting a little on behalf of drinking water and, as such, on behalf of nature and biodiversity. In the first place, I can say so much that the SF naturally supports it wholeheartedly, but we would also like to see it referred to the committee's work, so that some improvements were then looked at, among other things. in relation to the risk of pesticides outside BNBOs, to see if we can get the recovery areas into the municipalities' risk assessment. I should also welcome from the Enhedslisten and say on behalf of them that they also support the proposal. And I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121221	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121235	Thank you. We Conservatives are also part of this Supplementary Agreement to the Pesticides Agreement, which is being transposed into law today, and that is why, by its very nature, we are also supporting the bill we are discussing here. It has been explained very well by the previous rapporteurs, so I shall not tire of wearying you with a complete A-Z review of it, but perhaps instead of highlighting that what has been important to us has been to find this enormously difficult balance between it, that we must, of course, on the one hand ensure that we take care of what is specially Danish and specially unique, namely the direct access we have to our drinking water and to drink what is relatively treated, many look to Denmark and are extremely envious of it, and we must take care of that, and we must take care of that, and that we politicians on the other hand also, when it comes to this debate, have a responsibility not to create a fear that is not justified. For there are many Danes who feel a huge fear in relation to this drinking water situation, and I recognise that in some places it may be justified because drilling has been closed and everything else has been closed, but we also have to, as politicians, stick to the fact that, from the outset, we have something very, very clean drinking water in Denmark. We must continue to have that, and that is why we must constantly be obsessed about whether there should be new screenings for new regulation, so that it is also a gift that we can pass on to future generations, and not just a good thing that our generation should benefit from. That is why it is very good that we are now going through these thousands of bnbos, because this is a very high number of people on a lot of agricultural grounds, and there are some golf courses that are being affected, etc. I think it is very good that we are starting from the point of view of making voluntary agreements where there are problems. That is the starting point, that is to say, we do not start by saying that we now have to impose and ban and everything else, but that we are trying to go the way of volunteering. I believe that gives the best results out locally. And it may well be that the solution is to raise more forest, as Mrs Gjerskov mentioned, which has many other positive side effects that are worth taking with it. I also think that Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party said something very right in terms of ownership and in relation to the compensation that must, of course, be provided if you get the land you have ownership of. And then, in fact, I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe said something very right in relation to the way we target here. It is, of course, a schism that we are trying to lead into our environmental policy in general: instead of making this broad general regulation, which is going wrong in some places, we are getting better at getting it targeted. And that's what we're trying to do here. It puts the municipalities on a big task. There is something they need to deliver here, and we need to follow up on them doing what they are asked to do, but let us have a hope that this will happen. So we Conservatives support the bill and look forward to further committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121529	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121537	In the alternative, we do not think that this is entirely satisfactory as a starting point. It is a small first step towards clean drinking water, so we can continue to drink our water from glass and taps and not from bottles. But that's not good enough. It is only by the end of 2022 that a genuine ban on pesticides near drinking water wells will be introduced, and we would like that to be put in place immediately. Consumers are allowed to pay for compensation to farmers and we want the polluter to pay for himself. In addition, the agreement is only about drilling areas. This is not enough and, as the Danish Nature Conservation Association points out in the consultation answer, they believe that the efforts should be extended to include mapping vulnerable areas in waterworks catchment areas where most of the groundwater is formed. In fact, GEUS says that if you take the areas from which drinking water comes, it is equivalent to approx. 0,5% of Denmark's area, but that drinking water is actually produced in an area equivalent to 10-20 per cent. of Denmark. The alternative is that it is a good thing that we are finally getting the ban on the use of pesticides in bnbo areas off the ground. We have been fighting for this for a long time, and it was also part of the negotiations and the last pesticide agreement, where we, together with the Enhedslisten, could not be included in the agreement because we did not want to impose a ban on pesticides in the Bnbo areas at that time. But we still do not think that is good enough, because we do not think it is right that spray poisons should continue to be sent into our drinking water. There should be a total ban on spray poisons in bnbo areas and, in the long term, a hundred per cent ban on spraying. We do not need any more studies, we need action now, and it is now time to take action, and it is not the citizens who have to pay for the damaged drinking water. Last year, in fact, we tabled a motion for a resolution calling for a collective system of responsibilities in agriculture to cover the new boreholes to be made. All other things being equal, we support the proposal because it is a step in the right direction, but in the committee I would like us to try to look at Banedanmark's use of pesticides, pesticides, because according to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency there has been an increase in the last few years of 66 per cent, and that of course also has an impact on our drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and then we move on to Mr. Simpson. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024121829	Thank you. This bill immediately seems to be valid, and in New Citizens, of course, we believe that we should take good care of our groundwater and that our groundwater should be clean and safe to drink. So we will immediately support actions such as this. Nevertheless, there are a number of questions that I would like to have clarified further before we take a position on the draft law, because questions are raised in the hearings on the need for implementation of this law and whether it has any significant effect on the safety of groundwater. There are objections, among other things, that there is no professional basis for establishing the spray-free bnbos, and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has previously said that there is no indication that groundwater is threatened by the current use of pesticides in Denmark; Denmark has in particular the toughest rules in the EU. Now I am well aware that this is not about the establishment of bnbo, but about the study of them, but I still think it raises the question whether it is necessary to authorise the Minister to instruct the municipalities to review all the designated bnbo areas where pesticides are used for professional purposes. Another objection is that the proposed measures only in very few cases lead to a risk of exceeding the already low limit value of 0.1 μg per year. liter of water. In addition, there are also a number of other concerns from other stakeholders. All in all, New Citizens believe that the bill has some good intentions, but that there are challenges in that the bill raises concern and uncertainty among so many relevant stakeholders. So this raises many questions when reading the draft law and, in particular, the consultation answers. So I would like clarification on these issues before we finally take a position on whether we will vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122027	There is a question from Mrs Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122031	Thank you. Well, I have read many consultation notes and the only ones I can actually see questioning whether this is a relevant thing is an organisation called Sustainable Agriculture. And their credibility in terms of spray poisoning at least in my eyes can lie in a very small place. I do not see anyone other than sustainable agriculture questioning what the rapporteur is doing. Could the rapporteur clarify who else it is, as the rapporteur believes, that this legislation is not necessary for the sake of drinking water?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122116	There is also an answer from the municipality of Aalborg, where concerns have been expressed about what exactly needs to be done and what costs it will have. And then we're also worried about this, with the amount of compensation for any farms affected by it. So we just want to have a better insight into it before we make the final decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122141	Mrs. Mette Gjerskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122142	Yes, but now it is not Aalborg Municipality that questions whether this is possible at all. Well, they are asking about some things, and the Minister has also adjusted some things in the bill. As far as I can see, only sustainable agriculture really says that this is not necessary. That is what I would very much like to see clarified. But, on the other hand, I can say that I am pleased that the rapporteur is in any case in favour of the work of the committee. And then let's see if we can't find each other, so that New Citizens can join with all of us in the party to protect drinking water.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122222-2	Well, that is precisely why we want clarification on the questions we have and then we have to take a position on the answers that come as to whether we think we can support it or not. As I say, the intention seems reasonable enough; we just want to clarify whether there are some of the concerns we see that are real and essential enough for us to be unable to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122245	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the last rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122257	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 31 is, after all, the political implementation of an additional agreement to the agreement on Danish pesticide strategy, which is also part of the Liberal Alliance. And since we have already had a thorough debate on the subject, I am not going to waste the parliamentary time further, but to say that we naturally agree. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122327	Thank you. Then we've come to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122336	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. In fact, I have been looking forward to today, both because it is my first legislative proposal, but also because the content of it is so good. The proposed legislative proposal is precisely about improving the protection of our groundwater and, in this way, also about the question of how to ensure clean drinking water in the future. As Danes, we are confident that you can probably drink the water from the tap, and so it must be in the future. We have some of the best water in the world, and we should be able to drink that safely. That is why, as a government, we also have a responsibility to protect drinking water, both for ourselves and for future generations. In Denmark we send groundwater more or less directly to consumers' taps, and it is quite unique for us to be able to do so, and it can only be done because we have very clean groundwater. We do not want it to become normal for the water to be cleaned of pesticides, and it is worrying that in recent years we have seen examples of residues of pesticides in our water. The prevention of pollution is therefore central. The pollution caused by pesticides in the borehole protection areas, bnbo, is likely to affect drinking water more quickly. Therefore, there is also less scope for taking preventive measures when there are accidents involving pesticides in bnbo. There is therefore a particular risk of contamination in bnbos, which makes sense having a focus on protection right here. In relation to bnbo, it is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's professional assessment that a stop to spraying or cultivation provides the best drinking water protection, and I am pleased that there is such broad political support for the supplementary agreement we have concluded; with the agreement there is also agreement that the municipalities should now review all bnbo by the end of 2022. The municipalities are obliged by this bill to assess the need for further efforts to protect, and I am pleased that municipalities, waterworks and farmers are going constructively to this important task to ensure our drinking water. In order to support the work between the three actors, a follow-up group has been set up, which was also agreed in our supplementary agreement, because we need to keep a leash in our efforts along the way. As a government, we want local authorities to find local solutions which are primarily based on agreements with pilot owners, and we believe that, in this way, we can hopefully find good local solutions which both ensure clean drinking water but which also provide a substitute for the farmer. Those solutions can, for example, be found. the conversion to organic farming or afforestation, and in order to follow up on whether the municipalities are fully in line with the protection, it is necessary that they also report their efforts. The draft law therefore also provides for the possibility to lay down rules for the municipalities to report their reviews. Those reports shall be used to prepare annual status reports for the contractual partners and to prepare a final evaluation in 2022. This will allow us to look at the momentum of the municipalities' efforts, and if the municipalities do not reach the target I certainly rate on the do-- we in the contract circle agree to introduce a general ban on spraying in the bnbo. The draft law is aimed at business use; there are already rules for municipalities to assess the need for action on nitrate-sensitive areas, and therefore it makes good sense for municipalities and farmers to opt for solutions which also put an end to the fertiliser in bnbo on the areas sensitive to nitrate. As mentioned earlier, the government will have a major focus on the protection of drinking water, and the new bill is a good start, but we need to do more to guarantee clean water in the future. Groundwater is now being screened for over 400 substances instead of 40 substances as has also been mentioned in the debate and I have commissioned a survey of the challenges in relation to groundwater as a starting point for the further steps in the measures we need to make for better protection. Against this background, the government hopes that all parties will support the proposal and help secure our drinking water in the future, and I look forward to good committee treatment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122812	There is a question from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122815	I would also like to thank the Minister for supporting the agreement reached under a Left Government. It's really fine, of course, said with a glimpse in our eye that we get a broad agreement on something as important as our groundwater. And just to clarify, when we talk about landowners, it is in the broader sense and not necessarily just farmers. I think it is half of the land that has been designated as an agricultural area. The other half is in round numbers other types of land, you might say. And that brings me to the question: if we now have 98 different municipalities, could the Minister try to elaborate on how she sees it when we ensure some kind of uniformity in the practice that might then be? I agree with the Minister that it should be local solutions to local challenges. But it must be in some form of one's practice so that you do not have different legal bases, if you may say so, depending on whether you live in one municipality or you live in another.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024122908	I fully agree with that, in other words, we need to keep a leash in this effort and we need to make sure that we get to the finish line. How do we do that? On the other hand, we have set up the follow-up group, where KL is also represented in relation to the efforts of the municipalities. On the other hand, we are also sharpening up the guide, and that is where we as a municipality can go in and see: what can we do? What are we obliged to do, and what are the tools to do so? And I myself have also said very clearly to the stakeholders who are in this area that if they are experiencing problems, whether it is the farmers or whether it is the municipalities, then they must come to me. Because it is of no use that we will only be told in three years' time if we already know the problem for the first six months. So my position is that we help as well as we can with the basis that must lie, but it is clear that there are barriers along the way, and if there are some things that do not work, then we should rather have it to know sooner than later. And, of course, I would also like to include the circle of agreements in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123007	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123008	I think that's really nice. Because I think it is really important, even for the understanding around us, that you do not see that you only get one kind of treatment, including, incidentally, the compensation that we, at least from our side, attach a great deal of importance to, that is to say, that you as an unwitting pilot, you can say, have a borehole, either directly on your own land or that the drilling is on the neighboring ground, but where the area lies over your ground. So I would like to sign for that, and I would also like to talk to the Minister about it further in the follow-up work, in order to ensure that there is that uniformity and that there will also be the compensation that I think we should give to the pilots who are affected by this. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123045	That's good to hear. And I would like to say that, when she was on the floor, the rapporteur of the Radicals was also referring to the fact that there is actually a very good incentive to get started and get it done now, because the pilots who are there are; because the compensation that will be is, in fact, better now than it will be by a general ban. And that is why there are no excuses for not having it done, either from the point of view of the municipalities or from the point of view of the farmers who have land that goes in over a bnbo. So I very much hope that, with everything we can support, we can help to achieve our goal as soon as possible. It has been a strong priority for Social Democracy for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123123	Then we'll thank the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123138	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123204	Thank you. The first part of the proposal we are considering today expires on the agreement to strengthen efforts against undeclared work, which all parties of the Folketing entered into in 2017. Black work may sound innocent to some people's ears, not to me, and the consequences of black work are serious. When the state misses an income because, for example, VAT is not paid, the consequence is that there is less money for many of the things we want as a society. There is less money to hire educators for, there is less money to hire nurses, less money to invest in the green transition for, and that is how we can go on. In addition, undeclared work is helping to poison confidence in our society and our social model. And I understand that people get off when companies and individuals avoid making their contributions to the community. That is why, as a Socialist, I have no doubt for a moment that undeclared work must be combated. It has to, so we have more money for many of the things we want to do. But it must also if we want to put an end to the crisis of confidence, and there this bill is one of the first steps along the way. Specifically, it is proposed that the tax administration should be able to give an undertaking an obligation to use a digital sales registration system. At the same time, selected industries which are characterised by a generally low level of regulatory compliance must be required to use a digital sales registration system. And what does that even mean? Well, a thought example might be that when I'm on my way to work here at Christiansborg from the South Funen, where I live, and then I stop at a small cafe to buy what I always drink in the morning, namely a cup of coal black coffee, and pay with MobilePay, then this bill will ensure that the company gets the obligation to register the payment digitally. Thus, the tax administration, which exercises control, can easily obtain an overview of the amount of VAT to be paid, regardless of the form of payment used, and thus become more difficult to cheat. The second part of the proposal expires on another agreement between the parties of the Folketing from March this year. The part of the bill is, in short, about ensuring that the people who work in Denmark also have the right to work in Denmark. In these years, we are seeing more and more people wanting to work in Denmark, but as things are today, it is possible to issue a tax card to a third country citizen, even if they do not have the right to work in Denmark. This is very inappropriate for the reason that employers can more or less deliberately misinterpret the tax card as a work permit. Because it is not a residence permit that has been granted when a tax card has been issued, nor is it a work permit, and in order to put an end to such misunderstandings, it is proposed that the tax administration should only print a tax card for a third-country citizen if the third-country citizen has the right to work in Denmark. This ensures that third-country nationals working in Denmark are actually allowed to do so. Of course, we support this in the Social Democratic Party and, overall, we believe that the draft law is very sensible and we do not support both elements surprisingly. We also look forward to further work on the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123529	Thank you. There's one question. I hadn't just put my glasses on, and it's a very small text that's on this screen, but I can see it says Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123547	The lamp began to brighten, so I assumed I would stand up and say something. Thank you, and congratulations to the rapporteur on his speech. Could the rapporteur tell us how much the state expects to get into the proceeds of this action? In other words, it is believed that this will reduce undeclared work and then there will be more money in the Treasury, so the rapporteur could not give an estimate of how much money the state expects to get into this action?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123609	I cannot tell you about the specific amount, but it is clear that for many years we have seen that there are some specific sectors • some sectors more than others • where there is a particular challenge with undeclared work. What we want to do with this proposal is to ensure that, instead of getting into the pockets of those who cheat, the money gets back into the Community box so that we can spend it on many of the other things we want. But I cannot tell you about the amount we expect in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123635	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123636	It is precisely in the draft law that we cannot do so. In other words, we want to introduce a new law and impose burdens on business, without being able to say whether it has a beneficial effect. Does the rapporteur not think that it is essential when we place burdens on business that we can at the same time see and we can prove that it has a practical benefit? Otherwise, it is just more administration and bureaucracy and more burdens for business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123705	I also assume that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has read that in the consultation answers you also recommend this because in many industries you experience that there is a lot of black work. The second part is, of course, that we put in the implementation of digital sales registration systems, so that companies will have the opportunity to adapt to this as part of what they have to work with in the future, so that it will not be a burden for these companies in the future, but that it will actually be the case that all those who do what they have to do, namely pay their taxes, can continue to do so and do their job. And for those who may have some difficulty with it, we're making this scheme with a digital sales registration system so that they too are forced to pay taxes in the future, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123744	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123746	First congratulations on the debut on the platform. It is not normal to ask questions to new rapporteurs, but I would really like to do it as an aid because I am part of the working group which was the forerunner of this draft law. Experience from Sweden showed that a similar initiative actually received 13 billion. kr. into the box as immediate proceeds. The current revenue, I think, was about 3 billion. kr. every year. Denmark is of course a smaller country, and it is a smaller number of industries we choose from the beginning, but it's just to say that the experience from other countries is so massive about this. Of course, I think it is a pity that the Danish side cannot qualify the amount further. However, I have high expectations and would really just like to ask the rapporteur if it could not be thought well, even if you cannot qualify a precise amount, that there was also a good effect in Denmark of this when the Swedish experience was immediately 13 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123839	I would also like to sign up to qualify for discussion and debate even more. It is true that you have some good experience from Sweden, and without being able to convert the course into Danish kroner, I would say that it is true that a great deal of money has been scraped in Sweden and that it is one of the same things we expect here. The questioner himself was involved in the work ahead of making this proposal, which I am standing on the platform with today, and I would just like to say that there was a broad and very good support from all of the parties of the Danish Parliament for this area, which has been thoroughly investigated. But I would also just like to support it and say that, of course, we have a clear expectation that with this proposal we will have even better control over it. In fact, this is because we have moved away from a society where cold cash was used to a society where we are using some new forms of payment, for which we may not have the digital registration platforms ready; and that is why we are, among other things, doing so. this proposal, so that we ensure that in future we are ready for the new platforms that are coming. But thank you once again to the questioner for also qualifying it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123941	There are no more questions, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024123954	Thank you for the floor. I think it's a great pleasure to deal with this bill, because, like Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær was also part of the working group on undeclared work. The question was how to avoid the black work and this is one of the initiatives. The others we have already implemented, but this thing with the digital cash registers takes longer because it wasn't something we already had, and we didn't know what it was for some cash registers, so it's a little later. Basically, we're positive about this thing with the digital cash registers. The idea is that, as in Sweden and Norway, it should be reported more automatically what is really going into the box. And that is to create a fairer competition. It is very good to compete, but it has to be on real terms and not in terms of whether you pay taxes or not. So we think that is really, really positive. And as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær mentioned, there was enormous positive experience with it in Sweden, and it has of course made an impression. There is, of course, the challenge of imposing a burden on business, and that must be borne in mind. That's why we've agreed on a long implementation phase right up to 2025, where this is going to come into force. And there I get a little confused by the fact that the economic consequences will come into effect as early as 2021, so I'm probably going to want to have a little bit more out of it, i.e. in terms of how it might be that a system that is to enter into force on 1 January 2025 already has economic consequences from 2021. Then there is the other thing that I would also like to know a little more about. For one thing, we also spent a lot of time discussing when we made the deal, and when we negotiated this with the industries, the importance of not sticking to the fact that it should be some specific cash registers. In Sweden, as far as I remember, they have approved three cash registers, all of which have to purchase one of which they choose to say in Norway that they have to meet different criteria. I think that is important to hold on to. I just want us to pay attention to that, in other words, to what exactly we are putting into effect here, so that we create real competition and that everyone can actually offer it here. I hope that for some of those who have these digital cash registers on an iPad or something else, it is just an upgrade and not a new cash register they have to invest in. And I can also see that the Ministry has calculated that 35%. But what exactly is meant by that? I really want to know. Then I would say that this is focused on those industries with the greatest fraud, i.e. the places we have seen where the most fraud has been committed, that's where you focus. And the people I know who work in the industry have actually been positive about the fact that you now have to compete on real white terms, instead of some competing black, because that makes it difficult for people who want to comply with the law. That way, we think it is really positive. As the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, this also contains a change in the rules on tax cards issued by third-country nationals. We have long thought it strange that you could get a tax card, even if you did not have the right to work in the country, and that is one of the things we also took hold of it is also an old agreement and which is being implemented here by saying that you should not have a tax card if you do not have the right to work in the country. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124305	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124312	Thank you. As I said, this bill contains two elements. What I want to mention first is what is about strengthened action against undeclared work, and I think it may also be appropriate to tell a little about the history behind it, because it is actually, I think, a parliamentary success story. It actually started with the fact that during the last parliamentary term, in the context of a debate on taxation, we also discussed whether we could go into private property where, of course, there was a great deal of disagreement. The Blue Block felt that we should not be allowed to do so, and the Red Block thought that we should be allowed to do so, but in committee we actually turned it around, if we should not instead look at what we agreed on, namely that we wanted to fight against undeclared work, so that we could look at what action could be taken in the light of it. That is why a parliamentary working group was set up in the Folketing, that is to say we moved policy development away from the ministries and into the Folketing, and this ended in a joint report with all parties, later also with a debate in the Ministry with the support of all parties, and then now in a bill which translates it. In fact, I think it is worth noting that in this way we moved the development away from the ministries and into the Folketing and actually ended up with some good legislative measures, some of which have been implemented, and this is also one of them. I think that is very positive. This is about digital sales registration systems, and it may be a log you put on existing devices, or it may be new devices that are updated. As mentioned, there is good experience with it from both Sweden and Norway, where it has given a lot of money in the box, but most importantly it has helped to reduce the amount of cheating with VAT and taxes and thus also the amount of undeclared work. For the less money that bypasses the cash register, for example. money, which among other things is money. is used to pay a dishwasher at a restaurant... the more money is paid tax. I really want to say that it is not just about getting money in the box, what is almost even more important is about equal competition. Because I do not think there is much doubt that we all know which one of the kiosks survives if you have two kiosks, one of whom does not pay VAT, taxes and taxes, but the other does. That is simply not fair. That is also why we are doing a check on these things: it is to ensure that there is equal competition between companies. As the previous rapporteurs have said, we have selected a number of sectors, and I would really just like to make some figures as to why we are doing this. Because if you look at the proportion of companies with conscious tax and VAT errors, they have not just made mistakes, they have deliberately cheated or tried to cheat, we see that the category of cafes, pubs and discos is 34 per cent, that pizzarias, barbecues and ice bars are 31 per cent, that merchants and convenience stores are 24 per cent, and that restaurants are 24 per cent. So that is some of the fraud rates. If you look at errors related to sales registration systems, i.e. the cash register, then you see that the figure is above 30%. for all the groups, and that just shows that there is no equal competition in these industries. That is why it is precisely those who have been chosen, and therefore not something that has been spread across all sectors, because then it could lead to unnecessary administration. But when there is such massive fraud in some industries and such unequal conditions of competition, I actually think this is a very good initiative that helps deal with it. Then there is the second part which deals with the fact that tax cards should no longer be issued to foreigners from outside the European Union if they really do not have the right to work in Denmark, and it is of course a good thing that this is being changed. But on the other hand, it's actually kind of a fun case that it's taken years to get through. But now we do it so that if you do not have the right to work in Denmark, you should not have a tax card, and then I think it should have been this way for many years. So it is actually logical to say that if you are not allowed to work in a country, you should not have issued a tax card either. It is, of course, good that it is being done, but it is almost like a Molbo story when you tell the Danes that you have actually told the companies: you are responsible for ensuring that the employee who comes with a valid tax card issued by the Danish tax administration is just checking whether he can actually work on this tax card. So it's still gone after this bill the company's responsibility of course to secure it for the people they hire. But that's a good way to secure it, by the fact that the tax administration is actually also checking that the people to whom they issue a valid tax card and who get deductions and other things are actually allowed to be in this country too. This will be solved in part, I would say, because, as the draft law rightly says, there are other problems afterwards, and we must then work on them and resolve them. However, I think that this is a good and logical step along the way and, given that political agreements have been reached on both elements of the draft law and we are part of both elements, we can of course and of course also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124728	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124735	Thank you, President. As my colleagues have examined, this proposal is the implementation of an agreement on strengthened action against undeclared work from 2017. What I would particularly like to draw attention to is that we can now look forward to better control of tax recovery, VAT recovery in certain sectors through the introduction of mandatory digital cash registers. The tax administration knows where it is that we most often experience fraud. So it makes good sense to target the new demands against the industries that are most unstable in their tax payments. Let us finally help them pay the tax they have to pay. Providers of these digital systems report being able to be ready by the end of 2020, so we also find the deadline of 2025 more than reasonable for traders to switch to new systems. We also consider it sensible that the agreement should include any extension of the list of sectors subject to digital cash registers within the contract circle. There is no doubt that there are places in society where the black economy has good conditions. The many cash flowing around in Danish society contribute to the fact that some Danes do not pay the tax they have to pay. We all know an ice cream or a pizza that only takes cash and MobilePay, and it can be difficult as a consumer to know whether excise duties are paid and correctly charged VAT. It also gives, as Mrs Louise Schack Elholm pointed out, unequal competition. We believe that this proposal is one of the most powerful and effective weapons we will have in the fight against undeclared work and tax evasion. We also note with satisfaction that there are both high expectations of revenue and that an evaluation has been included in the agreement so that we can closely monitor the development of efforts. In those words, of course, we in the Radical Left support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124930	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024124941	Thank you, President. The bill aims to strengthen the fight against undeclared work. The bill is part of an agreement concluded by the parties, including the SF, in the last session. The bill suggests that the tax administration may require a company to use a digital sales registration system if the administration suspects that there is insufficient registration of transactions. In addition, certain industries will be imposed on the digital model, including cafes, taverns, pizzarias, merchants etc., and there I think we can take a look at which industries are now being imposed on the model. I am elected in Copenhagen, and it is generally my view that for example. Some of the Copenhagen hairdressers might have a great deal of benefit from being included in this digital sales registration, so I think we should have looked at that. However, as I understand it, the administration also has the opportunity to impose this digital sales registration on a company that is not part of the chosen industries. So that's good. In the SF, we are very concerned about tightening up the control of undeclared work. In a community like the Danish, it is alpha and omega that everyone contributes and that no one drives on freewheels. With this bill, the government wants to ensure transparency in the black economy and make it more traceable. We support this request in the SF, and we therefore support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125100	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund, does not appear to be present, and the next rapporteur again, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is not here either, so we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125129	Thank you for the floor. My colleagues have so well explained what this means, so I will be brief. Because in the alternative, we think it is very positive that all the good consultation answers from the trade union movement should come, and we can only support the proposal in terms of strengthening the fight against undeclared work and helping employers who are unconsciously going to support undeclared work not to be able to do so in the future. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125159	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125214	Thank you. I am sorry that I came to make a proposal. I could hear that it is not customary to propose a maiden speech. But I spoke to the rapporteur and he thought it was quite okay. And that also explains why I didn't get any questions. Because I was wondering why I didn't get any questions when I was up to my speech. But it's fine, and it's good that we've got a clearing on it. Well, we're going to this bill, because I'm deeply worried. I am concerned that this Parliament simply does not understand what it is that creates the value we need to have our welfare society. Because it's business that does it. And if you take week 41 and week 43 here, we are now imposing additional burdens on business for the total of over 700 million. kr. I do not know whether the Folketing knows what is likely to happen, but it is actually described in the legislative proposals. It is that the business community is likely to pass this bill on to the citizens. So that means that being a Dane becomes more expensive. And if you do not pass on the bill, the company will have to reduce costs, and you can do that by dismissing employees. It is poison in the economic situation in which Denmark finds itself. When we may be on the brink of recession, it is not the right time to put burdens on business for 700 million. kr. extra if you add the figures from the last few weeks together. This bill is about wanting to reduce the amount of undeclared work, and nobody can be against it. But when you look at it, there is no guarantee that it will do so, because if we implement expenditure for the business community, we must be able to say what it will give what it will benefit. However, the draft law makes it quite clear that it cannot be said that it provides additional revenue for the state. That means you're guessing if this is gonna work. You don't know. And if you've had good examples from Sweden, where it's $13 billion that I could understand. kr., I am surprised that it gives nothing at all in Denmark, and that the Ministry cannot say at all that it will bring a win in Denmark. Yet this Parliament is imposing increased administrative costs on business without knowing whether it will benefit. That in my optics is deeply irresponsible. Add to that that it says that concrete technology is simply not available. So, you've asked Danish suppliers of this, what they're expecting, and there's a single player on the field now who might think they can deliver, and then someone might think they can deliver sometime into 2021. And that is why I am surprised that it is now possible to say what it will cost the business community to implement this. And that's 90 million. kr. as a permanent annual burden on business. That's a lot of money. But you have no idea what this technology is really going to cost, because it is not fully developed. That's what the suppliers say. There are industries that are problematic when it comes to undeclared work. We are absolutely aware of this in the New Citizens' Party. But then let us hit the individual companies who cannot figure out how to behave properly. The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party himself mentioned the discothex industry, I think it was where 36%. consciously making mistakes. And I am glad that the rapporteur called it cheating, because that is what it is. But what about those over 60% who don't? Why do they have to be punished? Why should companies which comply with the legislation, which do what they have to do, be burdened with extra burdens? If we want free and fair and equal competition, it is precisely a question of coming after those who do not follow the law. And we will also help with that. The second part of the draft law, which deals with tax cards, seems to us to be extremely sensible, and if it does come to that, perhaps we will be tabling an amendment to separate the two proposals. For that is something we can absolutely support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125725	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125734	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. It costs to operate, and some of the things that cost are that you have to comply with the rules of the authorities. This is also true in the area of taxation, in the area of food control, and it is true in all sorts of other areas that there are rules that must be complied with. Sometimes it costs the companies something, and that is the price they pay to operate in Denmark with the level of control that is in Denmark. The question is whether control is necessary, whether the legislation is fair and, if so, we have to accept that control and compliance can also cost sometimes. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125815	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Yes, there is a brief comment anyway, sir. Ole Birk Olesen, and it's from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125832	Thank you. I would like to ask the position of the Liberal Alliance in implementing legislation where the Ministry cannot demonstrate that the extra administrative burden imposed on business has any revenue effect in relation to the Treasury. In other words, we do not know whether this is going to work at all, but we are still imposing these administrative burdens on industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125855	The fact that the Ministry does not dare estimate the revenue effect does not mean that the Ministry considers that there is no revenue effect. I know that the Treasury is absolutely certain that this will generate revenue, and I'm sure of it. The fact that you cannot say whether it is 1, 2 or 3 billion. kr., doesn't mean you don't think there's a revenue effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125919	No, that is correct, but when you have examples from Sweden, as the rapporteur for the DF said, with 13 billion. kr., you might think it's gonna generate revenue. In some other laws you also add a very broad estimate from so and so many millions of dollars to so and so many millions of dollars or from so and so many billions to so and so many billions of dollars. You could have done that in this area too, if you thought there was a span as to where it was. But you can't do that at all, you actually guess here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024125948	This may be linked to the fact that, as the budget rules are in Denmark, one does not budget with revenue when one gets a higher level of compliance. Because the starting point is that the rules are complied with; that is what is the starting point for the state finances, and that means that if you have a higher level of compliance, it is not the case that you can suddenly spend a number of billions of dollars on new purposes. And that is why there is no reason to make an estimate, but there is no doubt that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130022	Thank you. I do not think there are any more brief comments to Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen. Then we'll give the tax minister the opportunity. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130034	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for the debate on the proposal, which I think has been both good and beneficial. It is, of course, a broad agreement that has been made, but it is clear that when something like this is to be put into effect, there may be questions that may need to be answered, and we must of course ensure that this happens. Thank you for receiving the bill. As has already been said, the draft law contains two initiatives which, on the one hand, contribute to strengthening the rule of law, i.e., as I said, by reducing the possibility of keeping tax revenue out, and, on the other hand, to supporting an employer's obligation to ensure that only third-country nationals who are actually entitled to work in Denmark are employed. As I have said, the bill contains a proposal that translates part of the political agreement, which was called "Strengthened action against undeclared work', and which a unanimous Parliament reached back in September 2017. As I have said, it proposes to introduce rules on the use of digital sales registration systems, and the tax administration must be able to impose an obligation on a company to use a digital sales registration system if, in other words, the tax administration finds that the company's registration of sales is insufficient. In addition, selected industries which are characterised by having, as it is said, a generally low level of regulatory compliance and a relatively high proportion of conscious errors should generally be required to use these digital registration systems. This strengthens the rules vis-à-vis companies which keep their turnover, and the bill helps to ensure that there is what can be called a sufficiently documented data base on the company's sales registration when the tax administration has to check whether there has been a proper collection, declaration and settlement of VAT. The parties behind the broad political agreement, which was, of course, a unanimous Parliament, agreed that the initiative on digital sales registration systems should be evaluated in 2027, based on the knowledge that the tax administration naturally collects about the impact of the increase. I have to say that, as Minister for Taxation, I am pleased that the proposal will enable us to contribute to a greater degree of traceability and transparency, as it says, in the black economy, in order to ensure that everyone pays the taxes and charges that they obviously have to pay. The draft law, as has also been suggested, also contains a proposal that the tax administration should not in future issue tax cards to third-country nationals without the right to work in Denmark. After all, the proposal stems from an agreement between the tax, alien and integration rapporteurs from all parties of the Folketing, which dates back to March 2019 and which means that an employer who employs third-country nationals has a duty to ensure that the third-country nationals employed have the right to work in Denmark. However, experience has shown that some employers mistakenly believe that the tax cards of third-country nationals provide evidence that they now also have the right to work in Denmark. It is therefore proposed that a system be introduced whereby the tax administration may issue a tax card to a third-country national only if the tax administration can establish that the person concerned has the right to work in Denmark. Thus, the tax card will not be issued until the immigration authorities have indicated and it is important that the third-country national concerned also has the right to work in Denmark. There were a few questions, including from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen of New Citizens, who asked about the economic effects, and to anticipate the course of events, I would just like to say that the draft law actually shows what the assessment is. It is true that no figure is added. However, following on from the discussion that has taken place and that we have heard in particular about the Swedish experience, the legislative proposal actually says, when you look at the economic consequences, that the additional revenue will come from a reduction in the tax gap in this area, and I think that we should just stick to that, in fact, is not entirely irrelevant. There is a lot of money, the tax gap is large, and here there is an initiative that will certainly help to strike a clear stronger balance between the obligations you have to keep track of things, that is to say, pay the taxes you have to pay and what you actually do. That is what I think is good about the proposal here and which helps to ensure that we can actually talk here about the fact that there is revenue. It is difficult to assess, because it is clear that you are going into an industry here, and it is a new initiative, but there is no doubt that based on the experience there is, not only from other countries, but also from similar initiatives in Denmark, you can assess it here. Then the rapporteur of the Left also asked about the economic consequences of 2021 and then about the entry into force of 2024. I think we should try to get it described in the committee's work. This is something that has been discussed during the discussions that have been going through the change of government here, so I think it is quite fair, of course, that it is being asked about, and we may well delve into it in committee if it is okay, and the same thing about what criteria are being used to upgrade these cash registers, because this is a completely relevant question. So I would also suggest that we try to answer it in committee if that is okay. In those words, it was my introduction to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130646	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130651	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his answer. I share the Minister's view, because we must come after the people and the companies that do not pay the taxes they should pay. That is where we agree. And I also agree that it may be a good idea for tax authorities to be able to impose on a single company that, when it breaks the law, it should not do so and that instead it should do something else. It can also be a sensible thing. Why aren't we running into every industry? In some of the sectors mentioned, it is still a majority of companies that behave properly. Why not put that implementation in place so that the tax authorities can go to the individual company when it breaks the law, and then leave the legal part of the industry in peace and take care of their work and make money for the Danish state?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130738	Well, the whole foundation here is that there is an assessment that this is of course the right thing to do, and that is why you have put the cut that you have put in this bill, which all the parties of the Danish Parliament before New Citizens came into the Danish Parliament have actually agreed with, and which we have heard all around both is natural to do, and which you clearly expect is the right thing to do in relation to these industries, where there are proven to be right, very many people who, popularly said, find it hard to understand that they have to pay what they actually have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130808	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130810	Yes, there are some sectors where there are problems, but as the debate today has raised, it is still a majority that can find out, and that majority is now imposing an extra burden because there are some that cannot, and I think that is unfair competition. Let us now strike down hard on those people who cannot follow the rules. May I ask a question about how it can be that we cannot get a little closer to the revenue if we know how many percent of an industry you think is deliberately cheating and you know how much the industry is translating into everything? Because then it would probably be possible to get a little closer to what that number would be, so how big that tax gap would be. So perhaps you could get a little closer to that number in the committee work if you go mathematically to it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024130904	Thank you for that, President. But we are answering all the questions that are being asked in committee, and this too. I just think it's important to keep in mind here that it's kind of the two. There is an industry perspective where you have solid experience with • I can safely say that there is a lot here that, nicely said, has difficulty understanding what they are going to pay. And that's what you do as an industry. In relation to the second, as the rapporteur also asks, the tax administration will of course also be able to give a company an obligation to use this system if it can be established that the company's registration is inadequate, as it has been formulated. So this is a broad effort, and it was also what made it necessary, and there was broad support for this bill. But we are answering the questions, and I hope that New Citizens will support this, because there is no doubt that there is a problem here which we have been discussing for several years whether we should do something about it. And I have to say that I am very pleased that we have now succeeded in bringing this forward in a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024131015	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we move on to the last item on the agenda, which is a question debate, and I assume that all the rapporteurs have found their place first. And if they have it, we'll get started. And I understand from our officials that we're all ready now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024131031	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024131135	Thank you very much. It is quite obvious why we have called for this inquiry debate in the Danish Parliament. Over the last few weeks, we have seen some real, really violent attacks by Turkey into the Kurdish territories of Syria. We have seen how our closest allies in the fight against the Islamic State, the Kurds, have been attacked. We have also seen how this has triggered the flow of refugees, how civilians have been killed and how it in general exacerbates the whole security situation, both in the area and globally. One of the things we also have to discuss in the Folketing, of course, is how we should deal with it, and that applies, both what it takes to stop these attacks, but also how we should move forward. So this is the debate that we very much want today, and I look forward to it, because I think we all agree that this is a really, really serious situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024131234	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the Minister's reply and I would point out that, after the Minister's reply, there is a short round in which each rapporteur has the right to speak once. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024131249	Thank you. Thank you, first of all, to the questioners, for giving me the opportunity to discuss in more detail the very serious situation in north-east Syria. The conflict in Syria runs in its ninth year. It has led to enormous civilian losses. It has led to more than half of the Syrian population having had to leave their homes. In the course of the conflict, horrible acts have been committed by the parties to the conflict. Countless people have disappeared without their survivors knowing what has happened to them, and the conflict has caused an increased terrorist threat, increased regional instability, and, as you know, created massive flows of refugees. These are all reasons why the conflict in Syria must and must remain high on the international agenda; all the reasons why Syria is at least very close to my heart; all the reasons why it is good that today we are being given the opportunity to discuss the latest developments in the north-east and to thank the parliamentary questioners. For we must, together, insist that Turkey's military operation in Syria is unacceptable, that the international community under the leadership of the United Nations bring the tragic conflict in Syria to an end, that the hard-pressed Syrian civilian population can have the political solution to the conflict that they, if any, deserve. On 9 October, Turkey launched a military operation in northeastern Syria. Turkey and Turkish-supported Syrian militias took part of the border area between the cities of Tal Abyad and Ras al-Ayn. On October 14, the United States announced that US forces were pulled out of northeast Syria completely. Since then, the US forces have continuously left the area, and prior to that, the Syrian regime and the Kurds had reached an agreement on the regime's return to north-east Syria. The regime and Russia have since moved into a number of areas left by the United States. The extent to which the regime and Russia will be forward-looking in the northeast is not yet quite clear. The ceasefire agreement negotiated between the United States and Turkey on 17 October was a positive development in the sense that it helped to limit the fighting. It is to be hoped that the Russian-Turkish agreement of 22 October will have the same effect, although it is now far too early to conclude too much about it. However, the agreements have not changed the government's attitude towards Turkey's unilateral steps. The government has repeatedly condemned the Turkish operation and called for its immediate cessation. The government has followed a firm line vis-à-vis Turkey, along with the EU circle, focusing on concrete actions. That is why I am also very pleased with the strong EU Council conclusions adopted by the European Union on 14 and 17 October, which contain both a clear joint condemnation of the operation, an invitation to Turkey to withdraw its troops from Syria and an agreement on a restrictive EU line on arms exports to Turkey. Since Turkey's military operations in Afrin in February 2018, we have not approved exports of weapons to Turkey if it has been assessed that the weapons can be used in Syria. It's a good thing that more EU countries are now approaching this line. As the situation now stands, the government will not grant any new licences for arms exports to Turkey. The Government condemns the Turkish operation because it has a large number of very serious consequences. First of all, the major humanitarian consequences have been caused not least by the fact that the local population has been driven away from the fighting. According to the United Nations, the Turkish operation has caused up to 176,000 displaced persons, most of whom have fled to other areas of Syria. The fighting has led many international NGOs to withdraw staff from Syria and has made humanitarian access to the territories difficult. In addition, the offensive has affected the water and power supply of hundreds of thousands of people in the area and, in view of the major humanitarian consequences, the government has therefore launched a new humanitarian contribution of 20 million. kr. to the International Red Cross Comite, which has relatively good access to all of Syria. Secondly, the offensive has damaged the fight against ISIL. The Syrian Democratic Forces, the SDF, have been a key partner of the coalition against ISIL, but the Kurdish dominated SDF obviously cannot concentrate on the fight against ISIL when their focus is on the border with Turkey. It probably gives ISIL warriors and ISIL sympathisers a greater freedom to carry out terrorist activities. Thirdly, the offensive has to some extent influenced the Kurdish camps with detained foreign fighters. This applies in particular to the Ain Issa camp, which is close to the Turkish-controlled area of north-east Syria. The situation in those camps where female foreign fighters with Danish citizenship and their children are located in the camps al-Roj and al-Hol is still fairly stable, in other words despite difficult conditions. Fourthly, Turkey's military action undermines the political process for which the UN Special Envoy in Syria, Geir Pedersen, and his predecessor, have worked tirelessly. Development reduces the regime's willingness to compromise. It creates increased tensions between several of the other actors to be included in a political agreement, and it undermines the momentum which, despite the still very difficult prospects, had arisen following the agreement to set up a Syrian constitutional committee in September. I hope that we will now see a stop to the fighting, which can be used to focus on the political track. The government has communicated its concern about the operation very clearly and thus contributed to putting pressure on Turkey. We have made this a large number of leading players and at a number of international meetings. We immediately summoned the Turkish ambassador to an interview with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where our condemnation of the operation was highlighted in very clear speech. We have taken the matter up directly with the Turkish Government in Ankara. We have also raised the matter in NATO and discussed the humanitarian situation with the United Nations, and we have supported the holding of an extraordinary coalition meeting against ISIL, which Turkey is part of. I myself have had a large number of bilateral talks with several of my European colleagues. The European Union, of course, plays a special role in our work to ensure that the necessary international pressure is put on Turkey. Shortly after the start of the operation, the EU agreed to respond with a joint statement criticising Turkey. Of course, Denmark supported this. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 14 October there was a long and difficult discussion of the Council conclusions, in which I advocated the adoption of a strong text. As I said, I am very pleased with the result. We have also worked to ensure that the common EU approach to Turkey was taken up even higher when the Heads of State or Government met on 17 October. After all, they reiterated in their statement the condemnation of the operation and the call for Turkey to withdraw its forces from the north-east of Syria. So I do not think there can be any doubt about the firm line taken by the government in this matter. But when I say that I am very pleased with the EU's Council conclusions, it is not only because they are tough; I also think that they strike the right balance. Because we should not forget that the relationship between Denmark and Europe and Turkey is more complex and nuanced than that. Turkey houses almost 3.5 million refugees and is therefore crucial in the area of migration. Turkey is also a NATO alliance and we have already seen signs of Turkish rapprochement with Russia challenging NATO cooperation. That is why we must not lose sight of the fact that it is absolutely essential to maintain dialogue with Turkey and to avoid pushing them further away. With a view to this balance, the government will continue to work in the near future to put pressure on Turkey. The Secretary of Defense will emphasise the Danish position at the NATO Minister for Defence meeting today and tomorrow. We will continue to push for an extraordinary coalition meeting against ISIL. At the same time, the government will continue to consider the need for additional humanitarian aid as the situation in North-East Syria deteriorates further. The Turkish operation has created a very serious situation. We will constantly take stock of the need for further action on Turkey, but if we are to have real impact, we need to coordinate it with other countries. We must do our homework and think about doing it wisely and in cooperation with our European partners. It is the case that Denmark ensures maximum influence on the current situation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132218	Thank you, Minister. As I mentioned earlier, however, under the new scheme there is now a one-year-old possibility of a brief comment of one-minute duration per month. rapporteur, and only the rapporteurs. I can see that the honourable Members with the highest seniority have understood this, so I think everyone is aware of how this works now. The first is sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132245	Thank you for that, President. We must get to know the new rules well. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the tightening up in relation to the cease-fire on arms exports, which is one of the very things that the Left has been advocating for a long time. It has been a little too deaf ear, we really had the feeling, but now I understand that there is a sharpening, and we are really, really happy about that. Then there is the question of the Kurds, where the Minister, on the one hand, says how important it is for us to ensure humanitarian aid to the north-east of Syria, but, on the other hand, the Foreign Minister does not mention the Kurds in a word. There is what I think it is important that we here in the Danish Parliament also say plainly that we have some allies who have had over 10,000 losses in the fight against ISIL and who are currently under pressure and therefore need friends, and there I think that Denmark should be one of the friends and thus also ensure that we still have civilian aid programmes. So what will the government specifically do to ensure that the Kurds also receive civilian aid programmes from the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132352	Thank you. Firstly, I actually mentioned the Syrian democratic forces, the SDF, which have been a key partner for us in the coalition against ISIL. I would like to acknowledge to the rapporteur that it has been an important and central partner. It is the Kurdish-dominated SDF that has helped to solve this task in the fight against ISIL it is important to understand and that is also why the situation after the Turkish operation was so criticised and condemned on our part, as it weakens our fight against ISIL. Secondly, it has been important for the government also to ensure that we receive humanitarian aid for north-east Syria, and we have allocated additional money to it in the light of the fighting that is taking place. It is important that the civilian population, which has experienced war in Syria for nine years, should receive help, especially in the situation they are in now, and this, of course, applies to all sections of the population and, of course, also to the Kurds. That is very important to emphasise. So we have taken that into account. However, I am grateful for the question and agree that we have an opportunity and a duty to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132456	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132458	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I really want to ask you about the withdrawal of the United States, which came very surprisingly. It is not, of course, because the United States has a lot of troops left, I do not even think they were more than 1,000 troops, and it was more symbolic that they withdrew. I really want to ask the Foreign Minister what to put into this. We all know that the United States has gotten a little tired of the Middle East, and you can understand that, because almost whatever they do, they are criticized if they are there, they are criticized and if they are not there, they are also criticised. So they are in a strange situation where they find it very difficult to make themselves popular in the Middle East. But I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether he feels that this is a new style and that we will see more of the isolationism that was once also characteristic of the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132552	That's one of them. Therefore, I think it has been important for us to call in the coalition, the global coalition, against ISIL, where Denmark and the United States and Turkey are also members, in order to find out how we are putting in place a strategy so that the terrorist threat arising from terrorist movements, such as the Islamic State and their graves, is effectively combated together with our allies, including the United States. It is important to clarify this. I do not wish to comment on the American election campaign, but I do take note of what President Trump says, and of course we have to deal with that. At the same time, however, I think it is important that this is something that we, who are committed to fighting and combating terrorist organisations, whether it be ISIL in Syria or in the Middle East, or, as we also adopted earlier today, the fight against other terrorist organisations in the Sahel, stand up for by Denmark and, with our allies, secure good support for. So these are some of the messages we want to take to the Americans, namely that we stand firm in the fight against terrorist movements.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132658	The next brief remark is from Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132700	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for the statement. I agree with my colleagues from the Left that we have a lot to thank the Kurds for; they have really made a difference in the area in connection with our fight against the Islamic State, where they have acted as our ground troops. What is happening now is that they are being pushed back, and then Assad's forces are moving forward. What I would like to ask is: what is the position of the government in relation to, or attitude towards, Assad and Assad Syria? Is he still gone illegitimate? Is he someone we're talking to or not talking to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132738	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132738-2	Thank you. He's in the eyes of the government and I'm still illegitim and someone we don't recognize or talk to in that way. It is therefore also important to understand what our role is and can be in relation to the conflict in Syria. Hopefully, when there will be peace and stability in Syria, when the political process that has begun with the Constitutional Committee, which was set up, hopefully at some point, leads to a set of conditions and a political solution, and when it comes to rebuilding the country, one of the things that I attach great importance to is that it is not reconstruction in support of Assad, but reconstruction in support of the civilian population that has suffered for nine years in Syria. So it is really important that we use this to get concessions from the regime to support a political solution, because that is all there is. I think that everyone in this room after 9 years of war is tired of war and will see that on the political trail there is a solution. So no, we're not going to engage with Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132837	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024132841	Thank you very much for your statement. For us in the Enhedslisten, it is also so important that we can now agree that Denmark is firmly committed to shutting down the export of arms to Turkey. I think it is really important, both in practice, for us to do so, and I also think it is a very important signal to send to Turkey, and many of our neighbouring countries have also done so. So it's strong, and I'm really glad we've been able to agree on that today. I also think it is positive that there is a clear message that Turkey must withdraw, in other words that these attacks must be stopped and that they must withdraw. That is also crucial. The last point is then more a question following on from what Michael Aastrup Jensen also raises, namely that it is important that we have good and close cooperation with the Kurds, both humanitarianly and politically. They have been the closest allies in the fight against IS, they are the ones who stand for democracy and inclusion in the area, and they are the ones who are systematically being run over right now and left out of all processes. That is why I think it is important that the Danish Government should also meet with them. The Swedish Foreign Minister, for example, has met representatives of the Kurds in the autonomous areas. I would like to know whether the Foreign Minister will also work to ensure that we have direct contact.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133002	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133003	Thank you. The Danish Government's line has been very clear in relation to arms exports. We have therefore supported the most severe possible sanctions that the European Union can have on the part of the European countries. We believe that when you stand together in Europe, in a common signal to Erdogan and to what is going on, you have more influence than if you stand separately, as it were. The second is that it is true that, both when I was at a meeting of Foreign Ministers with my colleagues and also among the Heads of State or Government, we have not only condemned Turkey's military offensive but also called for their withdrawal from Syria. It's really important. Thirdly, I would like to stress that it is the case that I think it is important to have dialogue with all parties, including the Kurdish parties, and we also have this in various ways from the Danish side. Because if a solution is to be found, and there must be a solution in Syria, then it must be a political solution in which the different communities under a new constitution can live together and their democratic rights are therefore fully respected, and that is very important. So we need to get that process going, and that is why we also warmly support Geir Pedersen, the United Nations Special Envoy for Syria, and the trail that lies there. The Constitutional Committee is not a perfectly composed constitutional committee, but we support the need to find a political solution; secondly, we have seen over the past nine years only lead to death, destruction and terror, and that is not the way we should go. So I note what the questioner says and also say how important it is to have dialogue with all parties that can ensure a peaceful future and guarantee democracy, minority protection and the rights that will apply in Syria in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133145	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133149	Thank you for the speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A few days ago, the German Minister for Defence came out with the idea that the European Union should play a stronger and more independent role in the vacuum that has now arisen in Syria, after the United States has decided to withdraw from a vacuum which, moreover, has also emerged in many other parts of the world, among other things. in Africa. We do not quite know yet whether this is an official German statement, and what is closer to it, but does the government agree with the basic idea that the European Union should perhaps start to act with a little greater gravity, a little greater autonomy and a little greater responsibility for our neighbourhoods, and is it a thought that the government intends to back up and perhaps even take the lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133243	Firstly, the government's position was that we should give as strong a signal as possible from the European Union condemning the military operations in Turkey as a whole, and also in relation to the restrictive arms policy we have just discussed. If we can stand together, we can influence. Secondly, I would like to say that the German proposal, which is not yet a proposal, is a discussion in Germany between, I think, the Minister for Defence and others, is something we will of course look forward to. I believe that what the questioner is talking about in relation to Europe's role is more fundamental and is really important, and Europe must play as strong a role as we possibly can. And that is also one of the things that I myself, as Foreign Minister, take up in the circle of my colleagues in Brussels. I believe that Europe's role is really central. In relation, for example, to the question of whether or not we are going to do something about it. I have to say that it looks very difficult; we have seen Russia veto when it comes to the issue of the UN Security Council. But that does not mean that we should not try to find solutions, and that is why, if there is a proposal from Germany, we will take a very positive view of it and see what we can do on the Danish side to support ideas that can bring about peace and stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133349	Thank you. There's only one brief comment in this round. Such are the new times; it was adopted in 2018. After lengthy discussions in the Bureau, the far-reaching decision was taken that there would be a rather topical debate with the Minister before he sat down and took his final round afterwards. There is one comment, and that is for the rapporteurs only. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133421	Thank you for your statement. Now come mr. Martin Lidegaard me a little ahead of you. That was one of the same things I was thinking about, namely the proposal that Germany has made. And now I understand that Germany's proposal is not an EU effort, but more an effort to bring together European countries. So if that proposal were to come, does the Minister think that Denmark should provide forces?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133446-2	As I also answered Mr. Martin Lidegaard, there is no proposal from Germany yet. If there is a proposal, that is something we will certainly discuss with Germany, in other words what is possible. As I said, any proposal and any idea on which we ourselves are working hard and which can bring about stabilisation and pave the way for a political solution in Syria is something that we can support. And that is why it is also important for the government, as I have mentioned, to support the UN track and that Europe can play a huge role qua, for example. Our great humanitarian aid: there will be more European countries involved in the conflict and hopefully a future reconstruction aid to Syria once a solution has been found to the conflict. And it is important that we take the debate in the European Union on how we can secure and translate our importance to Syria into concrete influence politically to ensure stability on the ground. But if there is a German proposal, we will look at it and see if we can find out, together with the other Allied countries, how we can contribute to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133551	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more brief comments from the rapporteurs. We shall now proceed to the debate, and it is, as it usually is: you start with the rapporteur for the questioners, and then the rapporteurs get the floor in order of the size of the party. Here is the debate, as it usually is with one question of one minute duration and a follow-up issue of 1⁄2 minute duration, and all the mfs can participate. Then the Secretary of State ends, and unless you want another round, that's where we're gonna end. The first to speak in the debate itself is Mrs Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024133639	Thank you. Over the past few weeks, I have really gone with my heart up my throat, I will say when I have followed the news, and also when I have talked to people we know in the Kurdish areas of Syria. Because we have simply walked and been so afraid of what the next attacks would be as Turkey came along with. We've seen how civilians have been killed, little children, older people. We have seen how both bombs and mercenaries have overturned the Kurdish territories of north-east Syria. And the people who have been our closest ally in the fight against the Islamic State have thus been brutally attacked and killed, and some of the people who have been active politically to ensure a more free, inclusive and democratic society in these areas have also been attacked. This is something that I think should affect us all a great deal, both because it is human life, but also because this is a fundamental attack on the opportunities that exist to create democracy and freedom in the area, and because it is completely insane from the point of view of security and militarily that Turkey is allowed to attack the Kurdish forces, which have in fact been our most dense and effective allies in the fight against the Islamic State, those forces which have managed to bring this terrorist movement to its knees in these areas and have been freed from very large lands, and which have also been the guarantee that many refugees have been able to be safe in the area. What we can see is happening right now, for example, is that a great many of the Christians from all over the region, both Syria and Iraq, who are refugees and have been safe in these areas, are now being attacked and killed, including by some of these mercenaries who come in. In other words, they have been some of the only areas where people have been able to be safe, and that is what is once again breaking up. And IS gets the chance to win back. So I think that in every possible way it is a crazy serious situation that we are in now and which so demands that we take political action. What we saw was that a few weeks ago Trump had a telephone call with Erdogan, and apparently it was no longer necessary until he allowed the Americans to leave the area completely abruptly and left the Kurds and all the other people who were there to their own fate. But it can be said that afterwards we have also seen too much inaction on the part of Europe in this context. Because it is really, really important that we insist on Turkey going out, and that is why I am glad that we have actually made a proposal for adoption today in the Folketing. Annette Lind, the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, will read it out a little later, but I can say that the starting point we are going to agree on here is that Turkey should withdraw; it is that we should have a complete cease-fire on arms exports to Turkey; and it is also that we should have a package of aid for north-east Syria. This is all something I think is very important. In addition, there is a very clear responsibility, including with us, I think, in pushing for stronger economic sanctions from the European Union. There is also a clear responsibility to help build that relationship directly with the Kurds, because they are being sidetracked right now in the processes that are happening. There we can see that it is Erdogan and Trump who are sitting and talking, or Putin and Erdogan and also Assad who are talking, and I do not think we should leave everything to the people in the current situation. In fact, we need to talk to those who are some of the good and decent people who need protection here. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister will consider meeting with the Kurds in this context too, but I will be even happier when we see this happening, I would say. It is therefore essential that we should play a full part in all possible areas in the future to see how we can put maximum pressure on Turkey to stop these bombs before they start raining again on people. Because I want to say that the people, the men, women and children who live in these areas are, in other words, some people who deserve so much better than being crushed in such an attack and who deserve so much better than being left alone in such a great political power game, which, by the way, will also go completely wrong if we do not do something now. So I really hope that we can do the things we need to do to bring this situation into a better direction. This is absolutely crucial for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134200	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134203	Yes, I fully share Mrs Flyvholm's frustration at what has happened and the unfortunate consequences of Turkey's invasion, and also the aim of putting pressure on Turkey in this situation on the European side. And I am delighted that the Enhedslisten recognises that Europe has an important role to play in this context. I am not actually saying that to tease, but because it leads me to an important question here. I agree that it is important to have a dialogue with the Kurds, but it is also important at some point to try to get the European Union more involved in a peace settlement, which requires that we also talk to some of them, with whom we may not be so in agreement right now, including Turkey. Therefore, I would like to ask the Enhedslisten rapporteur the same question that I put to the Minister: can the Enhedslisten see for himself with the scepticism that is now being expressed towards the European Union that the European Union can and should play a stronger role in trying to negotiate a peace in Syria and to create, it can be said, the framework for also a European presence, possibly in the form of peacekeeping forces, or is it so against the European Union on principle that it does not want the European Union to develop that way at all? Because it is a little bit, you might say, to give the European Union a new dimension if you work in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134327	There should be no doubt whatsoever that, in this context, I and the Enhedslist want us to do everything we can to put an end to these attacks and to get Turkey to move out again. Of course, the European Union also has a role to play. That is quite clear. That's why we're here, too. calls for action on the economic track, which I see as the European Union's really heavy way of influencing this conflict right now. But I can see other roles too. There may well be other initiatives that can also be taken within a European framework. I am quite open to this, but I would say that when it comes to what is at stake here, both in the peace negotiations and also in the question of the deployment of an international force, I still think that the most obvious solution will be within a UN framework, which is, of course, there, you typically want to do so. So it makes the most sense at first, I think, to try that way, but I think we should be willing to look at everything we can at all in order to achieve the security in the areas that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134427	I am very pleased with that answer. It is clear that it would ultimately require some sort of UN mandate and that the Security Council is involved. If the Security Council is to be involved, it will probably be my opinion that Russia should be involved or they should be involved; they are in the Security Council. If you're going to bring Russia, I'm not sure this could be a NATO operation. In fact, I think that, in this situation, it might well be possible to engage some other countries. It may be under the EU flag. They may also be independent countries, as Mr. Peter Seier Christensen has mentioned this, but I am glad that the Enhedslisten does not rule it out, because I believe that we are in a general geopolitical pattern in which the United States will leave some power vacuum in our neighbouring areas where I cannot see anyone other than the European Union. And when I think it is relevant to bring it up here, it is because in Denmark we have a defence reserve. We have been opposed as a country for many, many years to the idea that the European Union should think at all, for example. to be able to act peace-keeping together, and the Enhedslisten has been one of the parties that has taken the lead in the movement that the EU should not deal with such things at all. But I hear, at least when it comes to Kurds, a little softening on the Enhedslisten side here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134541	It is still not our view that we should, for example, be able to do so. must abolish the Danish defence reserve, or that we should have a regular EU army, but that is not the solution we are facing right now either. That will not be a solution in the specific situation. I think we should use all the channels we can to push, and that also means that I think it is very important to discuss this here in a European context. It is also fine if you can look at bringing together European countries that want to be involved in something here. This is very, very obvious, but I think we have to deal with the reality: both in the United Nations and if it was an EU operation, it is difficult to escape Russia. After all, we do not see a Germany that will have soldiers down there on earth when Russia says no, do we? We will have to push for this, and that is why we must also think about economic sanctions and do everything we can to push for it. So I think we should talk about what's of opportunity and what presents itself. We must keep up with what we can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134641	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134644	I am very pleased with Enhedslisten's flexible approach to what the European Union can deal with and that it has clearly abandoned the very rigid rejection of everything that just tastes like the shortening of the European Union. But I'd like to ask if Eva Flyvholm could be a little more specific about that. I note that the wording is mostly about European action. So, does Mrs Eva Flyvholm envisage European action in a different direction from that of the European Union or with it? And can it come before the ideal solution that it was a UN solution? But it's probably not likely, is it? So can Mrs Eva Flyvholm clarify that a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134724	Yeah, I can do that. Where we are right now, it is quite obvious that we do not have an EU army. I am glad that we do not have that, but that is to say, it will always be if some kind of peacekeeping force were to be deployed, whether it was a European initiative, or if what we prefer was a UN initiative, something that each country has to decide on; who would like to contribute to it. And that is why I call it European, because we cannot know which countries would like to contribute to it now, and it will then be a collection of those countries that would like to do so. So it's kind of just because I relate to what the picture looks like. If you ask if I think there could be sense in that, Denmark in one way or another contributes, then we have among other things. in the immediate future, the question of whether such a team of surgeons could be sent to the Kurdish territories of Syria. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case now because the Americans have resigned and because the Kurds, who were supposed to be our allies, are being attacked in a totally brutal manner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134828	Thank you for your clarification, and I think that makes perfect sense, too. If you think further in Mrs Flyvholm's line of thought here, and you actually end up having a European organisation of what I understand today must of course be so loosely formulated, because we do not know what it could be, but let us now assume that there will be some sort of European organisation that will come into being as a kind of buffer zone or security zone • Will the Enhedslisten think that Denmark should put up with armed people in such a coalition?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024134903	Well, that's something we have to look at. As I have said, we have reported quite clearly that if it were a UN peacekeeping force, yes, I would think it was positive. If we are in the current situation where what is the foundation is the agreement that Russia and Turkey, for example, have reached. If we have entered into agreements, then we must at least look at what kind of game we are involved in. I think that the starting point must be that Turkey should get out of these Kurdish areas in Syria. If that is the starting point and you then clear them out, and they say that we are then making some sort of international security in the area, then I think it would be a sensible agreement to enter into, yes. And it is clear that we must be involved in discussing how to do that. That's one of the buttons we can help to turn on. However, I believe that one of the things we can best do urgently here is also to apply the economic sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135002	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Oh, there's a brief comment, and it's from sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135008	I stand here as a substitute for my good colleague Rasmus Nordqvist. But just a quick question: first of all, it's really nice that this urgent debate is being held. Could the rapporteur say anything about how one could imagine how we maintain the focus that this debate is also expressed? What are the discussions we are going to have and in which committees? And are there any considerations as to how we can proceed with this? Because what's going on right now is totally unhappy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135043	Thank you. I very, very much agree that what is going on right now is totally unhappy. And I think that when we leave here today with a common understanding that the Danish demand is also that Turkey should withdraw from these areas, we must continue to work for how we can put pressure on them to achieve that result. We must do this both in the Committee on European Affairs and in the context of human rights, because there are really, really major human rights problems in the invasion we are seeing here and, incidentally, in Turkey. And, of course, we also have to do this in the Defence Committee and in all the places where we can get to it, because this is a very important element in security policy. And I also think that from my perspective and from the Enhedslisten side there is a very obvious point in that we have to, for example. to take responsibility for bringing home some of the children and families who sit in the camps down there, both for humanitarian reasons and also for security policy reasons; to take responsibility for the prosecution of the IS fighters who sit in those areas. Well, there's a lot of places we can do something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135157	Now, there were some questions just now that I actually heard the most was a bit of teasing in relation to Enhedslisten's European policy, and that is not what I should like to emphasise. What I want to hear is: how do you see the role of the European Union in a possible solution? Because it is obvious that this is a pan-European agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135226	Clearly, it is really, really important that we do what we can to push for in the European Union. One of the things that I think can be done is to impose stricter financial sanctions. In other words, the European Union provides extremely much financial support to Turkey. If you put them in the view that the box will be closed, it will have an effect. Turkey is negotiating accession to the European Union. If you put them in perspective, that process will be stopped if they do not retreat and stop those attacks, then I think it will have a great effect. That is one of the things I see as the most effective thing that we can and should do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135305	So I would like to thank Mrs Flyvholm, as there are no more brief comments. And I would like to extend a warm welcome to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135326	Thank you for that, President. In the social democracy we are seriously concerned about the situation in north-east Syria. The social democracy and Denmark condemn Turkish aggressive behaviour in Syria. Just as Mrs Eva Flyvholm said, you have your heart all the way up your throat. It is the case that developments have sometimes continued from hour to hour, from day to day. I think we have had a very, very clear Foreign Minister; I think we have had a very visible Foreign Minister. He has spoken to all his colleagues, both in NATO and in the European Union, and he has also called the Turkish Ambassador for an interview with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and delivered an official condemnation of the operation in Syria. He has also called on Turkey to suspend the operation and withdraw. It shows that we have a foreign minister who actually takes this seriously. The situation is complex and deserves careful consideration. As I said, things are developing rapidly and Turkey must show restraint and avoid any situation that could endanger the civilian population and drive people to flee. Indeed, we may face a disastrous refugee crisis. In Turkey alone there are 3.5 million refugees, especially from Idlib. Denmark therefore also refrains from any action that might weaken the fight against ISIL. That is exactly what can be done if it is the case that the camps are going to start. Denmark also has a narrow challenge in relation to foreign fighters. And that is why we have also had an urgent request today in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we agree that if the camps are to start, then the ISIL warriors can penetrate Europe and also move towards Denmark. And here they have nothing to do with it. They have left our country and it has made them no longer welcome here. And that is why we have decided today that we can take the passport from these Syrians who have dual citizenship. Because it is precisely people who have left Denmark, and that is why we must keep them out of our country. We also have, as I said before, very close cooperation with our allies, both in Europe and in NATO; the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister, and the Minister for Defence have that. And it is very important that we keep Denmark close to both Europe and NATO. We also need to talk to Turkey, although it is difficult and even though it is an ally of NATO. It is very, very rare and it may never have happened before that we have experienced a situation in which we have in this way disagreed with another NATO country. In relation to the export of arms, it is the case that we do not export heavy weapons from Denmark. That's how we export components or software. Denmark has already reached an agreement a year and a half ago on very restrictive requirements for the sale of arms components to Turkey, and we have done so at the level of the Foreign Minister, on the one hand, and at the level of the Prime Minister, on the other. The Foreign Ministers first agreed to tighten up and then further tightened up the Prime Minister's meeting at the Danish request. And now we come with this proposal for adoption to tighten up even more. And I'm really, really happy about that. We have talked about how much money it really is that is being exported for here from Denmark, and that is quite little money; it is a few hundred thousand kroner, so we are not talking about massive exports as it has been in the past. But now we're gonna stop it completely. We have also heard that the Germans will call for the establishment of a common safety zone. This is a proposal that we have also heard about from the Foreign Minister, and we are in favour of it. But no official representations have yet been made. But the Secretary of Defense has expressed a positive view of that part, and we signed for it. However, as I said, there is no official proposal. We must have Denmark and Europe close to our allies, we must take responsibility for the neighbourhoods, and a common line is therefore important. And I am therefore very, very pleased with the cooperation that we have had here in the rapporteur's group. I think it is very positive that I can now read out a proposal for adoption which has support from one end of the House to the next. I have received statements from all parties except New Citizens, but the parties themselves must state whether that is correct. Now, on behalf of S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament condemns Turkey's deeply worrying offensive in North-East Syria, which damages civilians, drives people on the run, works against the fight against ISIL, affects the handling of foreign fighters and the UN-led political process. The Folketing urges Turkey to permanently stop its military operations and withdraw. Parliament supports the recent conclusions of the European Council and the Foreign Affairs Council, including the strengthening of arms export controls to Turkey. The Folketing agrees not to grant arms export licences to Turkey. Parliament calls on the government to work towards closer coordination in the anti-ISIL coalition and to examine whether European countries can play a greater role, including in relation to peacekeeping efforts. Parliament calls on the government to continue to play an active role in the EU, NATO and other international fora, as well as to have a firm line bilaterally to put the necessary pressure on Turkey. The Danish Parliament supports Denmark's continued contribution to the humanitarian needs of North East Syria as a result of the operation. • V.3 - V.3 - V.3 - 150 words is 150 words. It cannot be done more precisely.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135921	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be distributed to you shortly. And we can confirm that it is all parties except New Citizens. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Socialist rapporteur if she wishes to respond to them. The first one's from sir. Michael Aastrup from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024135941	Thank you. We in the Danish Liberal Party are very happy with the tightening up that has come from the government, and I have also praised the Minister for that. Where, on the other hand, I think something is missing is on the issue of the ISIL prison camps, and there we on the Left have said on several occasions that it may be necessary to move these prison camps either southerly in the north-eastern part of Syria or possibly move them into the Iraqi-Kurdish areas, so that we can be so close to a hundred percent sure that these people can be locked up. That is why the question is now to the Socialist rapporteur: what can the Social Democrats and, hence, the government do to reassure us that steps have been taken to ensure that these ISIL prisoners are thus locked up and in some camps that are also safe or that they may be moved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140029	I do not think that the rapporteur from the Left should be worried that we do not want to have as secure a policy in this area as possible. This is among other things. That is why we have had the urgent question today, when we say that these prisoners have nothing whatsoever to do in Denmark because they have turned their backs on Denmark. That is why we have a very restrictive task to look forward to, and we will also be discussing this in Foreign Policy Name, and we will be discussing this with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140106	But I have already done so, as the rapporteur knows. I have repeatedly raised this point in foreign policy mention, and I must not tell you what has happened at the meetings of Foreign Policy Names, so I will not do that, but there is probably a reason why I am taking it up here, and that is because I have not been reassured yet, and that is why I think it is important. We should all have a goal that's about these people being locked up. There have been incidents from a few camps where some have escaped. And that is why I expect a little clearer answers from the Social Democratic Party and, hence, the government as to what is being done to ensure that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow there is complete assurance that these prisoners are locked up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140143	The rapporteur does not need to worry that we are not doing everything we can. In fact, I think that this is a subject to be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Council and not in the Parliamentary Chair, and it is also something that needs to be discussed with the Foreign Minister. So I'm thinking we'll continue the discussion there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140202	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140206	Thank you. And thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, also for the tightening up of the line that has taken place. The best thing to say about recent intervention by the Russians and the Americans is that the conflict has been frozen, that is to say that the open struggles have at least been temporarily stopped and it has been frozen. But it is also a freeze which means that there is still a Turkish • yet another Turkish • occupation of Rojava or Kurdish-Syrian territory. It is, after all, an area larger than Funen, and it is an area that is currently developing into an Islamic state. Women are prevented from going out without shelter and without being accompanied by men. People are being arrested for not keeping religious seats. We have seen barbaric executions and we have seen barbaric attacks on people. That is why I would like to ask: what is the thinking of the Social Democrats about further sanctions if that occupation continues? Because that is what we need to put an end to, as the resolution rightly says.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140321	In fact, I do not think that anyone in Ankara is in any doubt that we have a very restrictive attitude to this problem in Turkey and Syria. And that is why we have actually taken the lead, particularly in relation to this issue of arms control; there we have actually had a rule for a year and a half which the other European countries have now agreed to. I also think it can be said that an agreement has finally been reached on the setting up of a constitutional committee. In fact, we are doing a great deal and we have gone very far with this proposal for adoption. It's gotta work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140358	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140400	One of the reasons why Erdogan may have respect for Trump and respect for Putin, although, like me, it is a very unpleasant personage, is that the reality is that they have managed to put Turkey in place with economic sanctions. This was the case when a priest from the United States had been arrested, and that was the case when some Russian aircraft had been shot down; then some economic sanctions were made, and bang, Turkey reacted. Why should we not engage in economic sanctions if we want to prevent an Islamic state from remaining in Syria, protected by Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140440	We write in the proposal for adoption: the Parliament condemns Turkey's deeply worrying offensive in North-East Syria, which harms civilians, drives people on the run, works against the fight against ISIL, affects the handling of foreign fighters and the UN-led political process. In fact, that is all we are saying in this proposal for adoption that needs to be changed. That is why I am very confident that we can now agree on such a text together, almost all of the Folketing. And that is why we also have a common will to change things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140517	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140520	Then I'll follow up on that lead. As the rapporteur also pointed out in his rapporteur's speech, we are faced with a dilemma. We are talking about Turkey, which is a member of NATO. We are talking about Turkey as a country with which the European Union has made an agreement in relation to the flows of refugees. There are plenty of relations with Turkey that we are bound by in one way or another. At the same time, we must now make a very clear indication to Turkey that what is happening right now is unacceptable. So it's super dilemmay, and that's why I find it interesting what Mr. Søren Søndergaard says: What is the next step in this if what we have now set in motion does not work? It is said here that the necessary pressure must be put on Turkey. Could the next step be a genuine economic boycott?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140617	In fact, I think that we are putting enormous pressure as it is right now. It is true that we are in a dilemma, but I do not see that it can benefit a NATO country or Denmark or Europe or the whole of NATO that we are not talking to Turkey. That is why we need to find a bilateral way to talk to Turkey. The conversation is actually the way forward, while this dilemma is addressed very precisely in this proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140647	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140649	It is just such a little extra curly on it: It has been mentioned in the media how Turkey maps critical voices in Denmark and that some, including myself, have come on such a list of people that they absolutely do not like. I am therefore also pleased that it is a unanimous Parliament at least a largely unanimous Parliament that makes this statement. But what are we thinking about a country that maps critical political voices in Denmark and lists them? Is there any thought at all about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140725	As I said, we write in the motion for a resolution that we condemn, therefore, we have reason to be able to build on this text of adoption, and I actually think so. Now we have this broad majority that can agree on this, and then we have the conversation in Foreign Policy Name, which has to go ahead with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140748	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024140802	Thank you for that, and not least thank you to Enhedslisten for taking the initiative on this urgent request. I think we all share in the Folketing across the parties the nervousness and concern about what the Turkish offensive can now get from derived effects. At least on the Left side, we have come to the clear recognition that this is the most clear signal that Europe has slept per hour and that Europe could have dealt with this conflict years ago by taking more and more responsibility, but instead we came into a situation where Europe did not really take responsibility, and there was then suddenly an American president who, as it were, threw the reins and moved the 50 soldiers from the border. And the rest is just history. Now we are in a situation where Erdogan has had his innermost dreams of a so-called security zone almost 100 per cent. established, he has gotten closer and closer to Putin, and therefore it has now had geopolitical consequences, which look really terrible, by now having Putin, Erdogan and an al-Assad triangle, which is probably the worst that can happen for Syria's future, and in addition we also have a fight against the Islamic State, which has not yet been won. We still have about 10,000-15,000 Islamic State warriors left in the area, which no one really knows can cause a vacuum or air to establish a necessary offensive. I have to admit, I'm very, very worried. It is, of course, in the light of what we in the Folketing also have to discuss, what we can do and what we should do. We on the Left have clearly said from the outset that we must do everything we can. Firstly, we were some of the first to say that we must have a total stop to arms exports to the whole of Turkey, which is why I really and sincerely welcome the fact that the government is listening to this now and is thus helping to tighten the course. Because, although, of course, on the one hand it is small change from Danish to Danish, it is hoped that we can now form a model for the rest of Europe, where it is not small change and where it will have a consequence in relation to the Turkish Government. Secondly, of course, we must do everything we can to help our Kurdish friends and allies. I mentioned it earlier in the brief remark to the Foreign Minister that I have to admit that I feel really bad about some allies who have had over 11 000 losses in the fight against the Islamic State now standing and really seeing that they do not really have any friends who can at least do anything. Therefore, I also believe that today in the Folketing we should all be able to send the clearest possible signal to the Kurds and say: We are still gone your friends, we are still gone your allies, and we want to back you up with economic civil programs as much as we possibly can. For what are we going to achieve by this? Firstly, we want to ensure that some people are actually helped, who are having a really difficult time, because there are already a great many internally displaced persons in the area. Secondly, and this is almost even more important, we will also send out a signal that the Kurds as a partner are still an important player in relation to Syria's future. Otherwise, what I fear will happen is that the possible Kurdish role will be slowly pulled over, and it will just be Assad, Erdogan and Putin who will share the spoils. And I have to admit, that scenario must be a horror scenario for all of us. Then I also briefly mentioned to the Socialist rapporteur our concern about the ISIL prisoners, which I have raised several times in all possible ways, and I would like to travel again. On the left side, it is vital that these people are not let loose or come back to Europe, and I therefore hope that the Foreign Minister can later give a clear assurance that Danish and hence European sides are doing everything possible to either move these camps if necessary, or otherwise ensure that these prisoners cannot escape, and that we can also get closer to the international court, which is becoming necessary and for which the government itself has advocated, and which the previous government has also fought for, so that we can get to grips with these people locally and also imprison them locally as quickly as possible. So that will be why we on the Left are looking at it with very great concern, but we also support the joint proposal for adoption that has been tabled. I think it is good that we can stand together here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141308	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141311	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left for that speech. I mean, I'm incredibly happy about the role that the Left has played in this case. There are things we do not agree on, it is clear that there is also disagreement on how far we should go in some areas, but it is quite clear that we had not achieved the result we have achieved today without the efforts of the Left and the Left rapporteur. So I would like to thank you for that. And I also very much agree with that, Mr President, the rapporteur of the Left. Michael Aastrup Jensen, points out, with the difficulty that exists, that we have had an ally that we seem to fail. I mean, I've been standing with people who have lost their own child in battle with the Islamic State and came here as representatives of self-government in Rojava and asked: why doesn't one want to meet with us at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? And I hope that we will agree that this should be the end now, and so I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if we could perhaps find a way together, as parties, to hold a conference here at Christiansborg, where we officially invite some representatives of the Kurds, whom they themselves of course appoint, and that in this connection we also invite representatives of the government. I don't know if we should invite the royal house too, but at least the official Denmark, so that we will show clearly where we are in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141434	First of all, thank you for the nice words. It is not every day that the Enhedslisten and the Left agree on matters, but here we are, I feel, totally in line, so I have been pleased with that too; the close cooperation we have had. And in relation to the meeting with Kurdish organisations: well, that sounds really exciting, so let's talk about it. I myself, as rapporteur for foreign policy, have had various meetings with Kurdish organisations, as it were, both in the opposition role, but also when I was the government rapporteur. I will continue to do so, and I think that is a very good initiative, so I will take it with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141511	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141512	Well, I don't have to deal with that for a long time, so I think we should try to get it started and put it in place, because it is a little strange that the Kurds, who have sacrificed so much in the fight against the Islamic State, should speak through television and television and cannot be here personally and speak to the official authorities. Then let's work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141538	Absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141542	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141543	I'm gonna stand up and praise the same way. In other words, I agreed from the outset to the end of the speech made by the Left. My question relates to the text of the proposal for adoption that we all agree on where it says that we should help to address the humanitarian needs of the region. We all agree on that. But the question I have to the rapporteur of the Left is: can we imagine taking the responsibility so far that we say that we will do something special in relation to the Kurdish refugees and the flows of refugees that are now emerging? Is it the case that we even give priority to taking any of the Kurdish refugees to Denmark, if that is a good solution in the extreme?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141631	Well, thanks for the nice words, too. I get really nervous at the end. But also back to earnest. Because this is a serious situation, and I clearly believe that we need to create more targeted civil programmes, among other things. to secure the internally displaced. But I'd rather help them in the neighborhood. And, of course, it must be safe, sound camps and everything else, but I also expect that we will have to spend a great deal of money on humanitarian and similar matters. So I think we should have a further dialogue on that with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141704	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141704-2	I agree, of course, that if you can lift it locally, that is clearly the best thing. But we have seen in the past how we have taken on a special task, among other things. in connection with the civil war in the Balkans in the 1990s, so that this situation can arise. That's just what I want to emphasise. Then I have a follow-up question. Some of the conflict with the Kurds in Turkey that we now see and can also read about in the newspapers is also moving back to Denmark. There is a conflict here between Turkish environments and Kurdish environments. Are there any considerations there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141741	Yes, there is. In other words, I must admit that I am following with great attention what is happening on the part of the Turkish authorities, both via imams, via mosques, and also, it seems, the Turkish embassy in Copenhagen, and that is both that, we have to say propaganda games, but also power games, where you try to trick some different opinions. And I'm violently against it. I also believe that the government must, of course, do everything it can to distance itself from this and also make it clear to the Turkish Government that we will not tolerate this on Danish territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141813	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we welcome the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024141822	Thank you very much and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the initiative on the question which I thought was a good idea. We have chosen to support the proposal in the Danish People's Party. We agree that there must be a strong political response to this. We have a few reservations, but I did not think it should overshadow the consensus in the Folketing, and that is why we have chosen to go along. I would say that the few things with which we had little difficulty are the history of the role of the European nations, possibly militarily, and that with the German leadership we have little difficulty chewing. I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Martin Lidegaard, that if he also expects to get approval at the same time in the UN Security Council, I do not think it will happen. It's just my guess. But I think he has to realise that if you want to go that way, you have to do it with what's called the coalition of the willing, because I think that's where the opportunity is. So it is not certain that we should be very willing in this situation. The second thing I do not like is the sanction regime, and I will come back to that. First of all, I would like to say that the situation we are experiencing now is weird with Russia and Turkey and saw the United States in a really old-fashioned role, because that is what characterised the United States in the past, that is, that you want to keep a little to yourself and do not want to interfere with things. As I said earlier, I think we are getting very tired of the Middle East in general, and I really do not think it has anything to do with President Trump, he is just doing it. I think it has more to do with the sadness that has been in the role of the United States in the Middle East for many decades. Anyone who becomes the potential loser in all this brotherhood is unfortunately the Kurdish people, and I mourn that. I would like to use my speaking time with sanctions and embargoes. I've been very concerned about this for a long time. Now it's not a very large amount we're talking about here, it's 700,000 kroner. It may happen, it is a large amount, if it is a small producer somewhere in Jutland who has found some little thing he does, and then it may be significant to him, but for the state it is not very violent, and of course what we do will not be noticed in Turkey. I think it's too little to make of it when it's only 700,000 kroner. in Danish export to this. I think, in general terms, that trade sanctions are evil, because in reality they only affect our own business. After all, the worst story is in connection with Russia, where it was with the royal family and the very large delegation had Danish export companies with them over there to start exporting to the Russian market, and when it gets started, we interrupt from here with a loss of perhaps 4-5 billion. kr. in the first years of the year, until you had found out something. And Russia has then obtained the food they need by other means, and production has also begun, for example. pork in a large style even, so you don't need Danish exports. We have had restrictions on Cuba for 60 years and we have had restrictions on Iran for 40 years, and it is still the same horrible regimes that sit in both places. In my view, it is too easy and too non-committal for government and Parliament to sanction unless we are willing to compensate, and I am very much concerned about that. I think it would make us all here in the Folketing much more personally responsible for what we are doing, if we also hit ourselves and Danish taxpayers on the wallet, so that it does not only harm the producer who may, in good faith, have exported and invested a great deal to get to export to, for example. Russia, but then it all looks interrupted at very, very short notice. I think we need to discuss this again, and that is why I have also called here yesterday for a question debate on how to compensate when we impose sanctions. As I say, it is far too easy to make a decision in my view. If it really is something that is going to mean that government and parliament are going to find 4-5 billion. I think we are beginning to think a little bit about sanctions and the arms embargo, and I hope that we will get an interesting discussion out of that. If we introduce it, it means that we also introduce sound thoughtfulness into what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142327	Martin Lidegaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142330	Yes, that was a funny contribution from the rapporteur, because it was a contribution from the rapporteur, which was all about what was opposed in the joint motion for a resolution, but one still intends to vote in favour: one is against stopping arms exports and one is against getting Europe more on the ground and so on. So what is the real purpose of the proposal for adoption? That might be interesting to hear. But the reason why I pressed the button was that when the United States withdraws completely from Syria, as the rapporteur has said, leaving a vacuum of power in our vicinity, from which there will be a significant number of refugees, whom I know the Danish People's Party cares about, and there is a risk of even more refugees taking the steps that Turkey has taken, I find it difficult to see why Europe should not try to play a role in that vacuum in order to stabilise the situation and put the situation under control. In other words, should I understand that the antipathy of the Danish People's Party against the European Union is so great that it is not considered that Europe should play a role in our own neighbourhoods in a situation where the United States does not intend to do so anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142440	No, that's not how it's supposed to be. For example, we have been good allies to France in what has happened in central Africa, have been willing to make a bilateral agreement with France. We have also done so in relation to Britain and, of course, the United States; it is a piece outside Europe, but we have done so bilaterally if we have seen the idea in it, and one could imagine that here. I just don't believe it. I don't believe in the idea. I think it has to be said that the forces that have the opportunity to change this are unfortunately Putin and Erdogan and President Trump in the United States. That's where the strong forces lie. Europe is not so much taken into account. I do not think either side is doing that, and that is something we can then regret. But may I say that I think this is a good proposal for adoption. I mentioned the two things as something that was difficult for us, but that we nevertheless want to support what is being said, and I have also agreed with much of what has been said from the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142547	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142548	There is no doubt that the situation is difficult. Nor is there any doubt that the European Union cannot simply go in to beat the Security Council in its place. I'll get back to that in my speech. On the other hand, it can be said that there is no doubt that Europe is going to play a huge role in the reconstruction of Syria at some point, because we have such great interests in it. So the only question is: when should Europe try to pull itself together to play a stronger role? Of course, we can wait until it is not even the United States that is doing it anymore; it is Turkey and Russia that we could join forces now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142624	You've made a deal now, I understand. It also seems to work, but how long it lasts, you don't know. But I think it was just proof that a conversation between Putin and Erdogan suddenly changed everything from one hour to the next. First, a very, very long-range ceasefire was made, and then the agreement was reached here, which seems to hold. This would not only be the case on the part of the European Union, because the European Union is as divided in its military and security policy as it is in its thinking. What is the European Union? We've talked about that a lot. Is it the Visegrad countries, or is it the Mezzogiorno and northern Italy and Spain? What is the European Union and where is the European Union? It is very, very difficult to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142706	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142710	I just want to say that I don't think that Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen must be so afraid that the United States takes such purely institutionalistic positions. In other words, at the same time as the 1,000 soldiers were to be pulled out of Syria to fulfill election promises, as Trump said, 2 000 soldiers were deployed into Saudi Arabia. The 1,000 soldiers were then not pulled out, they were moved to Iraq to defend the oil fields, and then, to be safe, a contingent was also left in Syria to defend oil fields. So, it's just more of an expression that oil is more important than human beings, but leave it alone. The question I wanted to ask, as I thought it was relevant, was whether it is also considered to be a sanction to break the customs union agreement with Turkey? In other words, the European Union has a customs union agreement with Turkey, which means that Turkey's main export and import partner is the European Union, and it is clear that it will be closed down, it will be absolutely crucial to the Turkish economy. How does the Danish People's Party view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142819	Well, it's a principle for us that sanctions are of evil. It also affects Danish business, although it is possible that the others suffer even more. I also do not believe that a total EU embargo on goods coming from Syria could be imposed, because we would then find some other places to dispose of them. As far as the first is concerned, the commitment of the United States around, but all of a sudden it is new to Mr. Søren Søndergaard is a very good and great idea that the US still has to be a policeman around Europe and in the world and in Asia etc. Is that a change to Mr. Søren Søndergaard's normal way of looking at things? It must be. It's always been said that you don't want that American policeman around, but when they retire, it's wrong, and when they stay, it's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142912	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142913	Yeah, when you're somewhere and you retire to give the green light to an invasion, it's a really bad idea. I can confirm that is the position of Enhedslisten. However, with regard to the customs union agreement, I am somewhat surprised because the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of it several times in this Chamber, i.e. that we should suspend the customs union agreement and that we should not negotiate the customs union agreement. That's why I'm very surprised, and I just want to know if Mr. Søren Espersen here represents the party, or more of his own views, sir. Søren Espersen represents?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024142950	Well, we've been very clear when it comes, for example. has been about Turkey's membership of the European Union; there was perhaps a great deal to be done and then perhaps some sort of sanction in that way. I'm not quite sure what the other one is, sir. Søren Søndergaard refers to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143009	We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Delors. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143020	I would like to join with the number of rapporteurs who thank Enhedslisten for this initiative, and I would also like to thank both Enhedslisten and the government and all other colleagues, except for one party for the willingness that has been to find a joint opinion here. It's incredibly important in this kind of case that we talk together and with one force. I also agree with the comments that have already been made about the fatal failure of the Kurds that we are experiencing at the moment, which I believe are both saddening and angry, and which, moreover, represent a huge challenge in terms of security policy, both in the fight against ISIL, but also in terms of a greater perspective, because the Kurds' case here is so closely linked to the whole development of Syria as such, and therefore there is also a joy that there has been a little bit more firmness in the management of the government. These are nuances we are talking about, but nuances also count in politics, and here we know that we are now in favour of a complete and complete end to arms exports to Turkey, not just those weapons that just move on to Syria. Having said all that and getting a little above the very specific situation right now, I also think that there are some things going on that we need to take into account when we have to assess what we are doing as the next steps. The message now coming from the United States not only in the speeches from the White House, but also in concrete action is that the United States no longer wants and will no longer act as the world's policeman in those areas that are not in what one might call vital interest to the United States. It leaves everywhere in the world for good and for evil; there are pros and cons of it in a new situation which I think is fundamental to what one might call the tectonic plates in geopolitics. If we look at Europe and our neighbourhoods, it raises a number of completely new, fundamental questions to the European countries in relation to both our neighbours to the east, but certainly also our neighbours to the south. But today it is all about Syria, and when the German Minister of Defence earlier this week boldly proposed that she had apparently not quite the government mandate for it in Berlin • that the EU should ask with 40,000 men, that the EU should try to go in and play a more active role in our neighbourhood, I thought: it was about time. It was time for a European superpower to say out loud: if the United States is not there anymore, it is Europe's turn. And I do not think that one European country can deal with it; I think it is a common European task. And I am not keen on it being under the auspices of the European Union, but it is obvious, since you have a cooperation organisation, to do so under the auspices of the European Union. That is why the question now arises, I think: no matter where the Germans land, will the European Union, can the European Union and should the European Union assume greater responsibility? Will the EU? I think we will see that the will to both find agreement and interfere and provide resources and personnel will change quite significantly in the months we are looking into now, partly because of the new United States reports, but also because we have vital security policy interests at stake, including refugees and migration. Can the EU? That is a good question, but it can be said that it obviously requires the European Union to be willing to talk to the nations with which we have the most difficulty today, namely Turkey and Russia. That is quite obvious. It is also quite obvious that there will not be a mandate from the UN Security Council flying by itself. But I can hardly think of an international conflict in which it has not happened in such a way that some key countries have taken the initiative to negotiate a solution which has then been carried up to the Security Council, which has then given its blessing. I am quite aware that we have a good UN envoy who is fighting so well, he can now do so also by the previous one in order to try to achieve that consensus. But we all know very well that the real negotiations here are taking place, such as those in the United Kingdom. Mr. Søren Espersen said, between Turkey and Russia and sometimes the United States and sometimes Iran. That is where the real negotiations are taking place. There is one thing the European Union has to do, and that is the stability map, that is, the economic support of a new Syria, a reconstruction and establishment that neither Russia nor Turkey nor any of the other countries can and will take on. And we also have something else to do, namely that if there is to be a peacekeeping force, we could together find the crew under a UN hat. That is why the answer to my third question is: should and should the European Union go into this? In my opinion, the European Union must clearly do so, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143538	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143539	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. One of the arguments used by the President of the United States to withdraw the 50 soldiers first and since the 1,000 other soldiers was that they were there alone, the Europeans were not there. Why was the EU not there earlier? Why is it only now that you wake up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143559	Well, both the Americans and the Europeans, whether we were talking about Iraq or Syria, have been there to fight ISIL, not to fight Assad, not to contribute to a lasting solution for Syria. And it is, of course, a great debate whether you should have gone in when Obama drew the red line some years ago and did not strike back when you had the opportunity and whether it would have changed the situation we are today. However, where we are today, the soldiers who are there, both the Americans and everyone else who has been in there, have been there to fight ISIL, not to contribute to a solution in Syria. What I am talking about now is: can we imagine a solution in Syria? And I think the hardest thing in the concrete context is precisely what the role is for Assad and his government. We all agree that it can only be temporary, but in the first place it is Russia and Turkey with whom we should, if necessary, start a dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143651	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143657	Thank you. It is therefore a new way of expressing itself in the Radical Left. So, is it okay now for the Radicals to take this step, a European military step, without the permission of the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143718	No. What I said was that if we are to negotiate a solution that can be taken to the UN Security Council, and which we all know includes the fact that both Russia and the United States and England and France, which are all members of the Security Council, can all agree, then we can start the negotiations that need to be conducted there, I believe. They're in business, Erdogan and Putin are negotiating. What I am saying is that I can see the European Union interfering in those negotiations with a view to helping the United Nations find a solution in the Security Council. I do not believe that soldiers can be sent out without these vital parties being sworn in, and that is what is happening in practice in the UN Security Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143756	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143757	The second question I would like to ask is, in relation to the change it will then be, of Denmark's security outlook, where it has been clear in recent decades that it has been the UK and that it has been the United States that the Danish people have seen and found security and security in. It would be a complete innovation to do something here without at least one of the two countries being involved in any military action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143828	I agree it is. What I am trying to say here is that I believe that this is not really what we are choosing, because I believe that the United States is choosing for us and they no longer want to contribute in the way they have done. That is why we are going to look at it and ask ourselves: what are we doing in that situation? It is not because I want to abolish NATO or the close ties with the United States as an ally, when it comes to ours, conventional security can be said. I have no intention or desire of doing so, but I believe that when it comes to our own neighbourhoods, we will have to take greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143902	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143903	Thank you for the floor. In the run-up to the Iraq War almost many years ago, Chirac said that in terms of getting out of a Middle Eastern country it was not so difficult to get in, so that one could always get in, but getting out was immediately more difficult. Now, if we're gonna go along with that, sir. Martin Lidegaard's thought experiment about Europe entering the Middle East, how and, in particular, when is Europe going to get out again?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024143934	This is where having a peace agreement and a plan sanctioned by the UN Security Council is absolutely vital. For the reason that our wise ancestors made the rules that one should have a UN mandate in the back and that one should have it through this extremely difficult body of the Security Council with the countries that were so divided then as we are now, was that one also had a plan for where to go, a plan that all the great powers of the world sanctioned and sanctioned. I do not imagine that this is easy for us all to know well, but I just think that we are in a new situation that we were not in just a month ago, with what has come from the United States, which means that Europe will have to ask itself some questions today that we did not ask a few weeks ago. That is actually my business, and it is quite possible that I have not found the correct and precise answers to the order of these different things, but I am quite convinced that Europe will look itself in the eye and not ask, but ask how and when we take greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144033	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144034	I mean, foreign policy is not an exact science, but after all there is a great deal of empire that you can think about. And it might look like there's no elegant way to get out of a Middle Eastern country. Will Mr. Martin Lidegaard doesn't agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144052	Well, it certainly hasn't been tested that far. Henrik Dahl is right. I also fully agree that it is much easier to go in than it is to go out. And that's why you have to think very carefully. But what we are dealing with here is a country in which we did not enter and where civil and political disasters are, if possible, even greater and more extensive than in the countries we entered.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144117	Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144121	Well, I would also like to thank you for your cooperation on this. I think it is very important for us to be able to meet, and I also feel that we have a common concern about the situation, so it is really positive. What I consider to be the most realistic and what to say is the right thing to do, which can also be done as quickly as possible, will be the case if the European Union also goes ahead with a series of financial sanctions. This is something that is being discussed in this House right now, in relation to whether or not we should spread the possibility more widely. I would really like to hear Radicals: how far do you see that we can also use that tool to put pressure on Turkey to get out?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144211	I think that, before applying really comprehensive sanctions to Turkey, one has to ask oneself where it is that one wants to end up. Well, what kind of endgame would the Americans say, or endgame you'll see. And when you ask yourself that question with regard to the Kurds, I think it is very difficult not to look at Syria as such as well. Because I hope and believe that one day we will be able to give the Kurds a much more autonomous autonomy in northern Syria, where they can live in peace and quiet without being attacked by either one or the other. And if we want to go there, we have to say that Turkey is part of the problem and that is why they are also part of the solution. That is why we must think carefully before taking that step. I don't want to rule it out. It depends very much on what Turkey is doing now and what is happening. I do not want to rule out the possibility of this being discussed at all, but we just need to be really clear about where we want to go. And at some point we also have to talk to the Turks about what they imagine. They can't keep this possessed forever. This is not a lasting solution for Turkey either. So my call will be to try, according to my speech, to try to get that dialogue going, but has the other thing in the toolbox ready, if that is the case, that you cannot achieve any good results.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144330	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144332	But the desire to have a free area of self-government for the Kurds in north-east Syria is something I share very much. However, we have seen a situation in which Turkey has been occupying Afrin for a long time now, which is the area next door. We have also seen now that we have actually moved in, and some of what is the strategy is that we leave behind some of these very, very radical Islamic mercenaries together with the civilian population and so on. So it is necessary to put pressure on Turkey to get them out. And doesn't make sense to look at, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Could Radicals see it as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144415	Well, I would like to say that I agree that in all that one can be critical of, what I am actually most critical of in relation to Turkey is precisely the pre-op troops they have sent in, who are mercenaries, who are spreading death and destruction, where they come forward it is absolutely horrible. But I still want to hold on to the fact that when Turkey does what they do, it is not just because Erdogan has a domestic policy agenda and so is it. It is also, of course, because the country is heavily pressured by having 3.6 million refugees that they care for and because they have been subjected to numerous attacks by terrorists. And they are probably the country of the NATO Alliance that has most deaths from terrorist attacks if we look back on the past decades. That is why Turkey has and should also have an interest in finding a solution to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144501	Actually, it was sir. Søren Espersen, who inspired me to ask this follow-up question. That's right, sir. Søren Espersen says that in foreign policy we have looked westwards, in other words towards England and the United States. But now we see an England that is most likely to leave the European Union, and we have a reasonably unpredictable American president, who may even be re-elected, and that means asking the question: what should foreign policy look like in the future? The rapporteur has already mentioned this. My question is: how does the Radical Left see the European Union playing a much more significant role, so what would it mean to play a much more significant role? Are there any examples of this? We are talking about unknown territory, but has the rapporteur considered how Europe can play the role in the vacuum that has arisen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144602	This is a major and very important issue, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk is asking, and I certainly cannot answer it on the basis of both time and abilities today. But there are clear examples that we have played an increasingly important role. When Russia occupied Crimea, we had a very divided Europe, where we disagreed very much about how we should act, but because it was our absolute proximity, and because the Americans in that area wanted us to take a lead, that is to say, to control the amount and strength of the sanctions that were imposed, then at 22 of each other's subsequent meetings I succeeded in taking part in all of them, going into disagreement and coming out in agreement and even putting considerable pressure on Russia, while reaching out a hand and playing a reasonably active role. The same has been possible in relation to handling brexit. So there are examples that we have been able to act in agreement. So when are we gonna do it? We do that when we are so pressured, to put it plainly that we have to. And I just can't see anything but that's what's happening again, and that's why it's just getting started on finding the common line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144706	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144707	I do not know whether the next question or more is a comment. The rapporteur has to decide for himself. I am a little unsure about how much a Europe commitment our current government actually has. There is no doubt that we should be a member of the European Union and so on. etc. What does the rapporteur think about what the government should do to support the process in which Europe will play a greater role in foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144745	I would say that then I was happier to hear the Foreign Minister today in relation to his European political vision than I was reading the interview with the Prime Minister who cleared the front page of the Jyllands-Posten the other day. I have to say that frankly, and I have written that too, so I can say that from the platform. Having said that, it is clear that it is not a simple task to create a strong common foreign policy in Europe, but in some areas Denmark has a very good starting point in terms of taking the lead. This applies to the green area, which I know the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself is very concerned about; it concerns part of development aid and migration policy; it concerns the Arctic, and I hope that Denmark itself will take an active lead on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144828	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next in the rapporteur's line, Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024144840	When an accident happens in front of you, you have a duty to do something. If you choose to close your eyes and withdraw, you have a responsibility at some level. And Turkey and Syria are right in front of us. That is why today's debate and support for a strong proposal for adoption are important. Because we will not close our eyes to the accident in Syria where the Kurds are being killed. Erdogan, Assad and Putin rub their hands, and Trump doesn't care. The Kurds pay the price. The good ones cry, the bad ones laugh, as they say. And in this situation, there's not much to say: on the one hand... and on the other hand... the scene is ready. Turkey is the aggressor who has invaded Syria. That's the division of roles. And we are faced with a Turkey which, in so many cases, is a NATO member and which is facing an EU that they want to be a member of, trying to present themselves as our friends. To that one must say: well, with such friends we don't need enemies. We can do a little from Denmark by blocking further weapons to Turkey, but we can in particular move something together with the rest of Europe. And the demand is clear that Turkey should withdraw from the occupied territories. And we, together in Europe, must find ways in which we can lie between the parties. A safety zone must be secured on a joint initiative, and we in the SF welcome the idea behind what the German Defence Minister is putting forward, namely the possibility of establishing a security zone. What the way forward, with which countries, how it is to be organised and how we get the United Nations into being as a partner, is today unclear, but Europe must assume a responsibility to protect the Kurds. Because the Kurds now need humanitarian aid and protection. The United States failed; we should not. Now on TV we can watch Erdogan shake hands with Putin while they plan what to do with the loot. Our commitment must, of course, be driven by care for the Kurds, but it is also part of the picture that Turkey's invasion means further destabilisation of the area, with the great risk of former ISIL warriors escaping from captivity. It hits the area and will help destabilise it, but it will also hit Europe, where we can look forward to combat-trained former ISIL troops seeking entry into European countries. And as we argue, the Kurds suffer. They have legitimate demands and expectations of our solidarity, and we are not pulling our shoulders while an accident develops before our very eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024145213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and that must then be a sign that the rapporteur's speech was in order. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024145224	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we Conservatives support the proposal for adoption. I think it is an important signal that we are sending out that almost all parties here in the Folketing agree on what we should think about what is happening in Northern Syria. So it is an excellent proposal for adoption. What is happening in northern Syria is deeply worrying. It can lead to more wars, it can lead to more terrorist organisations, it can affect the fight against the Islamic State, it can affect the refugee crisis in the area, and it is therefore important that we mark against Erdogan that he should stop by saying this and not anymore. I think Erdogan is a dangerous man. He has shattered the Turkish model, that is, the model that builds a bridge between East and West between the Islamic world and the West, he has completely destroyed, and if he disappears tomorrow, he has put deep prints in Turkish society, and that is worrying in my view; just look at the Turkish national team and their actor after the match. I think it's terrible to see that when you get down to the Middle East, Erdogan is a very popular man. He knows how to buy himself to popularity by building schools and bridges and mosques, and I don't know what. I've just been to Nablus, West Bank, where he built a mosque on a side road to the bazaar. So he's everywhere and he's got those great-power ambitions to rebuild the Ottoman Empire, and we're gonna have to stop that. I also think it was unwise of the President of the United States to withdraw the few troops who were there. They were not at the front line or on the battlefield, but they sent a signal to the Russians, to the Iranians and to Assad that they were present. And here I believe that the President of the United States did not go after the United States first, but after the enemies of the United States first; he has given the enemies of the United States really, very many opportunities; Assad is sitting today in Damascus; you don't believe your own eyes; it's crazy about what has happened lately. Now, thank God, there is a ceasefire, and I hope that it can be extended and that Erdogan will not move forward any more, because then more will have to be done than just those symbolic arms sanctions; then we will have to hit him on the economy, which is his tenderest point. He is in the process of making Turkey the Venezuela of the Middle East economically. Having said all that, I believe that the basic problem is still that there has not been a peace settlement in Syria. That is what needs to be worked for, and that is where I think the path has been left to Russia and Putin when it comes to being a front-runner in terms of a peace settlement, but we in the West can play a role in winning peace. If Syria is to be rebuilt, neither the Russians, the Iranians, nor Assad have the money to do so, and there we and the Gulf countries can make demands on reconstruction, and that is that the Syrian refugees should return without being persecuted and that the money should be earmarked to rebuild the homes of many of the Syrians who have fled, both inside Syria and outside Syria. So I think that the European Union and the West, including Denmark, should be a little more on the offensive in relation to a peace settlement in Syria, because as long as there is no peace, it will rub off on the neighbouring neighbouring countries and we will have more of the kind of incidents that we have seen here recently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024145643	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024145655	First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking any initiative at all on this urgent debate. I think you should be commended for more than just the debate here, because if there is a party that has been following the whole situation around the Kurds for many years, it is actually Enhedslisten. So I would just like to say from the point of view of the alternative that we have seen, and we have respect for it, and we support it. Then I am also glad that we have been able to agree on this text across the political parties, perhaps except one party. I fully agree, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also said, that this is a very significant text. It is an absolutely necessary text, and I am very pleased that the wordings that we have come up with and agreed on are now on paper and that this will then be the official position of Denmark vis-à-vis Turkey and with regard to the other countries that are interested in this. When you talk about it we've talked about everything, we've talked about Europe's new role, we've talked about the UN and so on. etc. There's Putin, and there's Erdogan, and there's Assad. But what really is driving this whole debate is the humanitarian disaster that we are unfolding before our eyes. After all, it is almost unbearable that we are talking about allies in the fight against IS, who have sacrificed lives on behalf of all of us, close allies who are now being sold because there are some major players who have some muscles that we others do not have: Turkey, Russia and Syria. And what one might have hoped for, namely that a Syrian solution had been found, as the Conservatives also mentioned, we are nowhere near. One can stand here and hardly be in one's body of frustration to read in the papers, that now Assad is moving up, and that it ends up being his solution and his ambitions that are being fulfilled. All the while this is happening, it is not just the Kurds as a people who may almost be wiped out; it is, after all, the democratic hope in the Middle East. For a very short number of years, there has been a basis for seeing a new democratic society establish itself, see equality unfolding, see completely new democratic models tested, and that is the democratic hope we are now seeing maybe extinguished. So I think it's quite awful, and we all agree on that. Just a small aside: I read yesterday The New York Times, where there was a very elaborate article about these prisons, institutions where the IS prisoners are, and hence the children whose parents have been enlisted by IS. When I read that article, at least I realized how completely uncontrolled a situation we are in. I think that we in Denmark should bring home the Danes who are in these prisons at least their children, who have no responsibility whatsoever for their being in the situation they are. I would really recommend that you read the article in The New York Times. At any rate, it made a huge impression on me because it was not just figures, but it was actually human life. Yes, you've made a decision that's unforgivable, but you're still gone. And where does our humanity stop? So I am really, really happy about today's debate. I think there are some questions that still remain unanswered: if it ends as awful as it might indicate, what does it mean to make a humanitarian effort? Should we actually say that we are taking part in the number of refugees that this is also producing? But we will have that discussion at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150127	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150141	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement. Of course, we also share the condemnation of Turkey's unacceptable behaviour. We also support the various measures taken by the government. We support the non-approval of exports of military equipment to Turkey, although we are talking about very limited amounts. If it has a symbolic effect, we think it is good to do so. We welcome the bill that citizenship can be removed from the Syrian warriors, which was adopted this morning. As you know, in order to anticipate an issue that might come, we are also opposed to the European Union, but we are no more dogmatic than that if the European Union can contribute in one way or another to promoting a solution here, it is of course also in our interest, that is, if, for example, we do so. could suggest that Turkey lost its status as a potential future member of the European Union, we think that would be very good. But where we get a little worried is when we see this German proposal, where they talk about a large force of 40 to 50,000 men who have to be stationed down there... however they should be placed. I don't think they can just walk in like that right now, but even though it's hard to get in now, it's probably even harder to get back out, as we've been talking about. So that is what our concern is about the proposal for adoption that lies here. We can support the vast majority of it. The only problem is the sentence that states that the government must examine whether European countries can play a greater role, including in relation to peacekeeping efforts. We are very concerned that Denmark should become a part of this, and we feel that if we say yes to this text, we are also close to having given a commitment that we will support it if there is a proposal. It does not make much sense for us to recommend to the government that we work to see whether a peacekeeping force can be deployed and then we will vote against it. So that is our problem with this proposal for adoption, and that is why we will not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150427	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150429	Maybe it was just because I haven't tried to listen right, but I just haven't quite understood it yet. Why is it that New Citizens will not be in the text of this proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150450	I'm sorry, I wanna be a part of what! Did you say in the text? What I am saying there is the problem here is that we are in danger of being dragged into the conflict with a peacekeeping force which may end up down there for a very, very long time without us coming out again. We feel that we are morally committed to supporting this if we say yes to this text because we ask the government to examine the possibility that we can have such a peacekeeping force stacked on our feet. That is our problem with the text of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150517	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150518	Is it really understood and heard that the problem is to get involved in a major humanitarian aid mission that you do not want to support? What is the problem is not the issue of the Kurds and the humanitarian disaster that is going on down there. That is not what one disagrees with, but one disagrees with Denmark's involvement at all. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150554	We fully agree that it is an unacceptable situation for Turkey to have penetrated, and we also believe that they should withdraw. What we are just worried about is that Denmark must become involved in a peacekeeping force down in the conflict area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150611	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150612	That makes me rather sad, because it is precisely the Trump agenda that we are playing on and not even, because what President Trump says is that Europe has not taken their task seriously, and that is why its troops are being pulled out. If we then also have European politicians who say that their countries are not there, then no one is there. Then it is only dictators and the like who are allowed to decide the following things, which I also thought were important for the new citizens: refugee flows, migratory flows, and whether terrorists can travel to or from Europe. So I have to admit that I am actually very sorry when I hear that the policy of the new citizens is that they simply do not want to do so, and then they hope that someone will solve it, and if that is not the case, then we have to take it as it comes. But we are talking about terrorists, we are talking about migratory flows, which can be completely incalculable and which can hit Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150701	No, I do not think that they will be completely incalculable if we are willing to do the measures that need to be taken just within Europe. It should not be solved by posting Danish soldiers in the area; then we should rather post them at the Danish border if a problem arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150717	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150718	We're talking about 15,000 Islamic state terrorists, and that's just the kind of thing you can handle. All honour and respect for the New Citizens' Foreign Affairs rapporteur, but I do not think that is something you can just deal with. So it is all terrorists who also think it would be fun to hit targets in Denmark, and then you talk about having soldiers at the border. Do you want to build a wall a la Trump where you think you can stop those terrorists? Because I can reveal that we also have water around Denmark, so it is quite easy to go to Flensburg and find some small dinghy and then sail here if it should be. So you can't make a limit that would be 100% safe compared to these terrorists. So I admit again that I am sorry that New Citizens do not recognise that there is also a terrorist threat here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150800	Yes, we certainly believe there is a terrorist threat, but we just believe that it should be dealt with in other ways, and we do not believe that we should deal with it by posting the Danish soldiers in Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150811	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150811-2	As I also mentioned in my question to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, I fully acknowledge that it can be difficult to get out of a military engagement. But if I understand, sir... Peter Seier Christensen is right, the no to the joint broadcast is motivated by the fact that it is difficult to get out of a peacekeeping mission. And I am a little surprised, because it is typically the case with peacekeeping missions that you can cancel your contribution within certain deadlines and then you are out of them. Will New Citizens reconsider their position in view of the fact that they can usually cancel their contribution to peacekeeping missions without major problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150853	No, we still believe that we are committing ourselves too much by entering into this agreement. If there is a concrete proposal at a later stage, we will be willing to assess whether that is something we will go into. But we will not enter at this stage and commit ourselves to entering into such an agreement, and we feel we will do so with this paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150916	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150917	But then I would like to know what role the balance between refugees and new citizens plays. For New Citizens is a party that cares a lot about refugees and that refugees should come to Europe and Denmark. Isn't there some kind of connection between establishing peace in an area and then refugee problems in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024150943	We still do not believe that this is the way to deal with it. The way we stopped the flow of refugees in 2015 was that border fences were erected in Eastern Europe. That's why it was stopped. The figures fell long before we made the agreement with Turkey, so we can handle the problems within Europe if that is what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151004	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151005	I would just like to understand New Citizens' foreign policy. Was it a mistake that in Denmark, together with other countries in a coalition, we fought Islamic State and destroyed their base, their so-called caliphate? Shouldn't we have participated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151026-2	I'm not sure if we should or shouldn't. I think we have had many problems with the various actions in which we took part. It can be seen that Iraq has also developed after the invasion in quite a different way than was hoped. Libya has fallen completely apart, we are very concerned about the type of action in which we go in and interfere in some foreign conflicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151102	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151103	You have to look at the individual missions separately. This is not about Libya, Afghanistan, Iraq. This is about the fight against the Islamic State. Shouldn't we have participated? Who would have fought Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151114	It is also possible that it was right to go in and fight the Islamic State in a limited action, but we do not believe that we should go in and get involved in a longer-term project down in Syria. We believe that we must deal with it as I have explained. If there are problems with refugee flows, we must deal with them within Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151137	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151154	Thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs for some thought-provoking speeches and a thought-provoking debate. And it is good to see so many of the foreign rapporteurs from the previous parliamentary term again. I couldn't spare the good company, so here you have me back. There is no doubt that the situation in northern Syria is serious and there is no doubt that Denmark is doing its utmost to influence the situation in a favourable direction. We have heard the Minister present this. Whether we can make a real difference without the political will of one or more great powers one can be a little worried about. This is also evident from the discussion. Because of the internal circumstances of my party, which you have been able to read about in the media, I was first given the rapporteurship and thus the matter here only yesterday. And that is why I had to cheat a little in terms of preparation, and I did so by looking at what I myself said earlier on this matter. In the issue of the magazine Ræson, published on May 12, 2011, that is, almost 81⁄2 years ago, I tried something dangerous, namely to look forward to the year 2020, and that is a year that is now less than 3 months out in the future. It happened in an article called "It's gonna be 10 hard years." And what did I write back then more than eight years ago? I quote from my own article: "Well, the USA is being pushed by the problem complex of poor economy/reality denying politicians and by new, international players, but that it should go so wrong that we no longer live in an American dominated world by 2020, I find it hard to see for myself. Middle East? Well. Should we not guess that they will sink into chaos and that the most well-organized whoever it is at some point puts an end to it? It is a quote which shows that it can be difficult to predict the future, because does the United States have a weak economy? No, you can't say that. But there are now also some elements in the quote that are not so skewed. Does the United States have real-life denial politicians? At least they have some. Have new international players arrived? Both Russia and Iran have been there all along, but they have been given a much stronger role and, in the case of Russia, a much different attitude than they had at the time. And then, unfortunately, you also have to call Islamic State a new international player. And then there is the central claim for the whole region after the Arab Spring, and here I disagree with Mr. Uffe Elbæk, can you hear, because the central forecast is: should we not guess that the region is sinking into chaos and that the most well-organised, whoever it is, at some point puts an end to it? The 81⁄2 year-old forecast has unfortunately proved to be correct. Syria is a country that has sunk into chaos and now the best organized, Turkey in agreement with Russia and the Assad regime, is putting an end to that chaos. This is happening with the acceptance of the United States, and Europe cannot really do anything about it. One might be delighted with a more warlike rhetoric from the Enhedslisten than usual, but I will not do so, because Enhedslisten has ended up in the same place as Denmark many times, namely in what one might call ad hoc proposals to some extent carried by emotions and not part of an overall Danish understanding or an overall strategy. How are we supposed to get out of the area again? After all, this is a difficult question which Denmark or a Western country has never managed to answer when it comes to the Middle East. So I will use the rest of my speaking time to launch a proposal made by the Secretary-General of the Atlantic Association, Lars Bangert Struwe, in Ræson on 12 July 2019. The proposal is that Denmark should develop a genuine Middle East strategy, because Struwe is right that Denmark does not have a Middle East strategy. Our previous engagements in the region have been marked by this, and this debate also bears witness to this. Then I must not call for us to take it seriously. As Lars Bangert Struwe says, Denmark needs a Middle East strategy. The Foreign Minister is the man who can put the project into action. I hope that's gonna happen. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's row and we will move on to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024151705	Thank you to the President and, above all, thank the rapporteurs. Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm and Mr. Søren Søndergaard for the question. And I would also like to thank you for the very good debate we have and have had here today, and above all for the fact that we have received very good and very, very broad support for the proposal for adoption which is before us and which we will have to adopt later. I'm really glad. I sincerely believe that when we are faced with such serious situations, it is good that we can gather together in the Folketing, in Denmark, about a very good and also far-reaching text in many areas which condemn Turkey's operations and which has the clear desire and aim to help those civilians who are so victims of the first victims of the war are, after all, the people who are the victims of flight, of violence and so on. As important as it is that the Folketing is united, I would also like to say that in Europe and in the coalition against the Islamic State, we are united if we are to defeat what threatens us: terrorists, the Islamic State, but also win the peace of a Syria which, after almost nine years, has been terrorised by an all-destructive war which has had major consequences. If I may take the rapporteurs. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Eva Flyvholm. I would say that I think it is important for Europe to play a huge role. I believe that one of the things we must do in this context is to support the political track, which is not least anchored in the UN. It was not without reason that the UN Special Envoy, Geir Pedersen, attended that meeting of EU Foreign Ministers and briefed us, and we had a discussion on how we could move forward on the political track in Syria. And if the European Union can also support it and support the work of the United Nations, then I think it is really important. So there's not like there was a debate between Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mrs Eva Flyvholm, on the other hand, necessarily contradict the fact that the European Union is playing a greater and stronger role and that the UN will play a greater role. In fact, I think that if you work together, we can have a much greater influence. In addition, it was also EU countries that addressed the matter in the UN Security Council immediately and demanded it on the agenda. It was not possible to adopt a text because some countries have a right of veto in the Security Council, including Russia. However, it was important that it was the European Union that was in the shoes. Secondly, I would like to mention that the declaration that we then adopted at the Foreign Minister meeting in the European Union was also the declaration that not only prompted Turkey but also Erdogan himself to react. And that tells me that if we do something together, we will also put pressure on Erdogan and on Turkey. If we do something, we don't see the same reactions. Well, he made fun of it, and Turkey said it was a joke. However, I think it is important that we understand that, when we do something together, we can therefore press Turkey to enter into dialogue, including those things where we deeply disagree with them, as in this case. Then I would say that the humanitarian situation is quite awful. There has been discussion about whether, for example, we should be able to do something about it. can help the Kurds more targeted and better. I think it is important to say that all civilians who are victims of such a conflict must be helped, and the way we help on the Danish side is largely through humanitarian organisations that are present. And there is a very fundamental principle that there is helping those who need and do not discern whether people have a different ethnic, religious or national background. There you help where you can, and I think it is very important to stick to that principle. That said, it is also written in the proposal for adoption that, as a result of the operation in North-East Syria, it is important that we ensure that there is the right humanitarian aid for that region too. Several rapporteurs also mentioned the strict arms export regime that we have introduced. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen mentioned that it was good that we tightened our regime on the Danish side. I fully agree with that. As I mentioned earlier, we have been working here in Denmark for the EU to adopt the sharpest common arms export regime in relation to Turkey, on which we could reach agreement. And I am glad that we managed to get a long way along the way, and therefore it is also natural that we in Denmark of course tighten up. I would say that we already had a strict regime on the basis of the Afrine operation last year in north-west Syria, where there was therefore also a Turkish operation. After all, the previous government tightened up and said that all permits for weapons that could be used in Syria were not granted. The new government has tightened up further with the previous government with what we have done now, and I think that is right, and I am glad that the Left too is supporting this much more rigorous approach and that we must be at the forefront of this. So we think that's a strong signal to send. Having said that, it is always important that, if we do this together in the European Union, we will therefore have a greater opportunity to influence the situation. Then there is the discussion, which several speakers have mentioned, about the German proposal for an international security zone with contributions from European countries. I think it's really important. In other words, we look very seriously at the situation in north-east Syria by the government, and a solution must be found first and foremost in the political path which I have mentioned several times. However, the government immediately welcomes all relevant solutions that can bring together international support. This also applies to the German ideas that we are really looking forward to hearing about, and immediately when they arrived, we also asked the embassy in Berlin to investigate the matter. And I can also understand now that the German Minister for Defence is expected to share more information at the NATO ministerial meeting that is today and tomorrow, and I think that is very important. We have not been asked by the Danish side to contribute, and if we are asked to do so, we must, of course, look at it. However, it is clear to everyone, I believe, that recent developments, not least the Russian-Syrian border agreement, make an international security zone even more difficult to establish than it was when the German Defence Minister spoke earlier this week before this agreement. So it also says something about the complexity of it, but I think it is important that it is discussed, and I understand that this is an issue at the defence ministers' meeting today and tomorrow. Mrs Flyvholm also mentioned Kurdish delegations, and it is clear that these are some with which I will, of course, ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs meets, so that we get a picture of what it is like. So it is clearly noted that this is something that we will do in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Legal persecution of foreign fighters has also been brought up in the debate, and I would say that it is very important to work to find ways. We in the government make this an international and regional prosecution of these foreign fighters. It should be borne in mind that it is people who have turned their backs on Denmark, who have traveled to Syria, who have joined the kingdom of the Islamic State and have committed some of the most terrible crimes that can be thought of. So, they are people, some of whom have Danish citizenship, but who have turned their backs on Denmark and failed the values we stand for. And I think it is very important that we work on those people being prosecuted close to where they have done their deeds; we do so by the government. It's not easy, but it's important to keep that track going. Sir. Søren Espersen mentioned sanctions, and sanctions as such we will have to take a longer debate at a later stage, I understand that I look forward to it. I believe that it is very important, when imposing sanctions, that they should be targeted at those people who are responsible for the decisions which cause harm or which you disagree with and that, moreover, they also have an effect on those to whom they are targeted. But it will be a long debate that we will have to take at some point. I would just like to say that, in relation to Turkey and Syria, I think it is important that we look at what these are actually for some things we can do that can really make a difference in relation to Turkey's behaviour. And there is again my clear conviction that the more countries we are united and who actually do some common things, the more chance we have of influencing the behaviour of Turkey and other players in the region than if we do it separately. However, I look forward to discussing the sanctions regime on occasion. Sir. Martin Lidegaard mentioned whether the EU cannot play a greater role. And there was also a general discussion on foreign and security policy. One is that, in a European context, we sit 27 or 28 countries discussing what to do and making conclusions, but I also think it is very important that we become much better at putting them into practice and that we go out and ensure that what we believe is also translated into action, because otherwise we will just be more paper-tiger in Brussels, and that is not what we want. So this is something the government strongly supports that we can do together. I would like to say that, in particular with regard to Syria, we have, in fact, as several rapporteurs have said, among other things. Mr. Naser Khader, I think, and others from European and Western countries, the resources to rebuild a Syria that has been bombed and crushed. And hopefully it is we who will be helping to rebuild when there is peace in Syria; it is not Russia, it is not Iran, it is not other of these players. And that is why it is important that we stick to the principle that we do not accept the Assad agenda, but must have a political lead that allows us to create a Syria for everyone, that is, a new constitution that allows us to have a peace and then use it, that is, our reconstruction aid at that time, to push and ensure that we get the right political development. Europe also has a huge role to play and we will look at it. However, in general terms, to strengthen our common coordination in foreign and security policy, I am very much in agreement with that. Should Denmark have a Middle East strategy? asks Mr. Henrik Dahl. I can see that my speaking time has passed, so I shall be very brief. Speaking of what I am saying, I think it is important that we have our own strategic considerations on how we in Denmark exert influence in the Middle East. I don't think so, and so do I. Henrik Dahl very much agrees with me that we ourselves can play a single role, that is, one-sidedly, on the Danish side; however, we are not that strong. But again, with our NATO partners, EU partners and through the United Nations, for example. With our Arab partnership programme, Denmark can actually play a role. And strategic considerations about that seem to me to be very important. That is something we do have, but it is something that I agree we need to keep up to date on an ongoing basis. The Arab Spring, which we had all dreamed of was the start of a new democratic development in that part of the world, has probably ended up a little different than we had hoped for, one can say calmly. And there we can then take stock of it and find out what the best strategy is to promote our interests and values in that context. And now it's time, so I'm gonna stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024152836	Thank you, Secretary of State. There are some questions, and the first is from Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024152841	Thank you so much for that review. This is also an area that is developing very quickly all the time, and while we have been sitting here in the Chamber, the European Parliament has actually also been gathered and held a meeting on exactly the same situation and on these attacks today. In fact, what I think is a super-good decision has been reached, in which the European Parliament says that it calls on the Council to consider adopting appropriate and targeted economic measures against Turkey and that it envisages, in order to stop further escalation in north-east Syria, to consider suspending trade preferences in relation to the agreement on agricultural products, and that, as a last resort, the customs union between the European Union and Turkey will be suspended. That is what the European Parliament has adopted while we have been sitting here. I think that's strong. I would like to hear the Minister's position on that too, i.e. whether it is not a natural next step to start addressing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024152941	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024152942	With the Foreign Minister's background, I can only say that it is sometimes the case that the European Parliament adopts some sensible things if there are some sensible Members present! I would like to look at the things that the European Parliament adopts. As I said, I think it is very important that we look at what can actually help to create a difference in terms of how we can influence Turkey's behaviour. That is what I am very much concerned about, in other words, what measures we have that can actually do this and how we can get this process back on a political track where we can find a solution for the various communities in Syria that are fair and sustainable for them. So, I think that is really important, and that is why we must, with the support of the UN, assess whether we should look at other options in relation to sanctions. On the Danish side we keep all the possibilities open, but we would like to see what is working in the specific situation, and I do not think we should do anything just because it is tempting. Sometimes it is tempting to do some things that are symbolically very strong, but if it has no real effect on the situation, I do not think that is the wisest way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153053	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153053-2	It is just to say that I fully agree that we have to follow the UN trail. There are some problems with the Kurds not being properly involved, etc., but we must also try to work for it, but the Minister must agree with me that it will have an effect on Turkey if that customs union is suspended. It is of great economic importance, and now there is a European Parliament which has actually agreed that this is the step we want to take. It's because people are deeply, deeply concerned about the same concern that we also share here and therefore I also think that Denmark should not stand on its heels and wait for what happens, but actually be one of the countries that grabs that signal and says: OK, we're ready to do this. So I really hope the Secretary of State is open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153135	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153136	Thank you. Well 1) we fully share the concern about what has happened and how we even make this turn and get into a different spiral than what we have seen over the last few weeks in relation to Syria. However, (2) I think it is important that we keep looking at the situation and I think that, and I would like to study what the European Parliament has decided on the best possible options for really influencing the situation in relation to Turkey's behaviour. That is what is really important from the government's point of view. As I said, I think we will do that if we can get other countries, as we did in relation to a restrictive arms export line, to send out a clear signal and do some concrete things. So that's some of what I'm gonna bring. But I would like to study what Parliament has said and then we can come back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153224	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153225	I was really pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was on the European track and could also see a perspective in it. I think it is a wise consideration that this interaction between the United Nations and the European Union has a potential that has not yet been fully exhausted. For it is quite obvious that the UN can do something that the European Union cannot do, namely hopefully create a common mandate and security around a possible security zone and peace settlement in Syria. But it is also true that the European Union can do something that the United Nations cannot do, in other words, both in terms of financing, but also in relation to, it can be said, the stage we are in now. And I have always seen it as the challenge for the United Nations envoy that there are a lot of things going on that the United Nations has not been invited to, if I may say so, and the situation on earth is constantly changing dramatically. Does the Foreign Minister believe that the European Union is trying to enter into the negotiations that are constantly going on between the crucial powers on the ground in Syria at the moment, especially Turkey and Russia, and will he put his own political force behind it so that the European Union enters and starts to have a real political dialogue with those countries in order to be able to lift it up to a UN solution? I think that's what I'm about to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153334	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153336	Thank you. I fully agree with the questioner that the European Union has a major role to play, not least in terms of trade and reconstruction, and that the European Union is of importance to the region at all. I also think it is important and the questioner himself mentioned it in the questioner's own speech here to say that without dialogue with, for example, Turkey and Russia as to what solutions are available, then we will not move forward. I also believe that I will set a clear limit, because one of the great players is after all the Assad regime itself, which, as we can see, has also gained greater control now in Syria. I would like to set a limit in relation to whom we are going to engage in dialogue with, so to speak, and under what conditions. There is a UN track that is running and we can support it. However, I agree that we must, of course, engage in dialogue with Turkey and also preferably with Russia, but it must be on conditions where the requirements we have, for example, are in relation to Turkey. minorities and a democratic regime will apply in Syria to all groups. This is not something that should legitimise any of what has happened, but it is in order to find a solution that will eventually be anchored in the UN. I think that is a good thing to have a dialogue on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153446	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153446-2	I agree with that, too, that Assad is not part of my deliberations as a negotiating partner either. But I would just like to end by asking here: is there, according to the Minister's opinion, around the table in Brussels there was the Minister last Monday with his colleagues some recognition that now that the United States is pulling out of Syria, the European Union or Europe will have to step up somehow?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153514	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153515	That is also what made the Danish Government ready to send a surgeon's contribution to Syria, together with the Americans, to fight against the Islamic State and to help stabilise North-East Syria. I wish that more European allies would follow the very active policy that now changing governments have followed in relation to north-east Syria. So that is a message that we are conveying, but it must also be said that not all European governments have been as willing to contribute as the Danish Government has. Of course, you could have wanted that in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153555	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153556	Thank you. I have a few questions. I'm gonna revolve around this trade sanctions and trade restrictions again. Are there any Danish companies that now need to be nervous about losses in relation to what is now being introduced? The second question I would like to ask is: have the sanctions and restrictions that have been imposed in relation to Russia worked and have they made Russia a weak country that has no influence? How have the restrictions we have had there worked and which have cost many Danish earnings?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153632	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. On the first question: it is clear that companies which intend to ask for a licence to export military equipment to Turkey will be affected by the very restrictive line we have taken now. So will Danish companies. Of course, that's the way it is. That is the consequence of it. I would also like to say that we do not have very much exports to Turkey, but if we do so together in the European Union, it can have an impact on some other EU countries that have much, much greater exports of military equipment that actually matter. The second is Russia and sanctions. I hope that we will have the debate a little more in depth. However, there is no doubt that one of the things to look at when making sanctions is also that there may be certain sectors that may be very badly affected. How, then, are we to ensure politically that the companies and sectors are given the necessary help to find new markets or in other ways to be compensated? These are the things I think are important to consider. You can do a lot better than that. But we are taking that into a debate, because I think it is a very important question to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153731	Sir. Søren Espersen. Søren Espersen I have nothing more). Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153738	Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I am really glad that far along the way we are actually one hundred percent in agreement. There are just a few flaws in beauty, if you can put it in the way that I think we are just missing to achieve completely the goal. One is the question of the ISIL prison camps, where, frankly, I am worried about what could possibly happen in relation to these prisoners if we do not get a guarantee this close to 100 per cent. as possible for what is going to happen. I was still not entirely reassured there, but I hope I can be when the Minister answers that. The next thing is that the Minister says everything right: we must have a regional court of some kind and a joint local prison and everything else. But then the question is: what is the timetable we are talking about? For some of the only positive things that hopefully come out of this is that the world, at least the West, can find out that now it has to get up at a hell of a speed, because otherwise things are going really wrong. So can the Minister reassure me in these two areas so that I can get rid of these flaws in beauty?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153842	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153843	Thank you to the rapporteur. Beauty errors are such..., but I would say that ISIL prisons, as they are called, or these camps, do not have any influence on or control over the Danish side; they are somewhere else. Whether to move the camps or not, and how to do so, we also have no control or influence. However, I fully share the concern expressed by the rapporteur and we must ensure that these ISIL prisoners and terrorists do not present any danger to us in Denmark and in Europe and, at the very least, ensure as much as we can now that they remain locked down. It links to the second question, namely the relationship with prosecution. I am very happy to discuss this. We also have it in the area of foreign policy because it is not an uncomplicated matter, but that track is something that we think is really important to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153939	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024153939-2	In relation to the last part, it is positive and we are happy to discuss it further. So in relation to that, we cannot do anything: well, I do not entirely agree with that. It may be that the SDF's troops are guarding these various ISIL prison camps, but it is still our allies, and hopefully that is the message from us today, namely that they are our allies. That is why, in cooperation with them, we can also see whether some of the camps are at risk, whether some of them might have to move, and then Europe, the West, must also help to provide the necessary financial aid to move such camps. So what I am trying to say is that Europe is also helping in relation to the SDF in order to possibly move some of these camps if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154022	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154023	If we could only imagine in a friendly and practical way how we could possibly do so, I can see that this would be very difficult given the situation in Syria at the moment. The truth is, then, that the first and most important thing right now is to create a situation where there is no war and where there is a ceasefire and then a political trail in Syria so that we can resolve all these problems, including maintaining foreign fighters behind bars and bars, and that there must be a prosecution, preferably regionally, locally. This is very important, and that is what we are working for from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154056	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154057	In fact, after the agreement between Putin and Erdogan, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs noted that the SDF was still responsible for the camps, and there is a need for a fresh Danish initiative to say that we would like to help with that, so that they can fulfil that responsibility. It seems to me that this is what has been lacking in all the initiatives that have come, namely direct support for the SDF, whether it has been in the form of material or capacity building, for example. so that they have been able to handle the camps properly, for example. so that they have been able to secure evidence in order to convict people, in relation to all the material they have collected in Raqqa, when they conquered Raqqa, etc. I fully agree with the Minister that emergency aid is being given to everyone. But we must not give that help to everyone, we must give it to those who need it. That is why I would like to conclude by calling for a statement from the Minister that, when you are also ready to do so, as far as possible, you should give more direct support to the SDF and the Kurdish area of self-government for the purpose of capacity building.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154212	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154213	We have said very clearly what we want. I mean, we've turned up the humanitarian aid. By the way, we have also recently allocated 50 million. kr. extra for e.g. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. However, humanitarian aid can be used because it goes through humanitarian organisations that are still present, fortunately. So we'll see what's possible on the ground. I also believe that Mr. Søren Søndergaard raises a very important issue, namely the issue of collecting evidence of crimes against humanity, violations that we have seen, terrible attacks, etc. We support this very warmly and strongly from the Danish side, not only morally and politically, but also economically. It is Triple IM, i.e. IIIM, and White Helmets and other organisations that collect evidence that can later be used in court proceedings against those responsible, and we think that is really important, because there will be a day, hopefully, when those responsible for the crimes committed will pay for it in court.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154323	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154324	I just have to say that it just requires cooperation with the SDF, and there has been no cooperation, at least not officially. You can also look at the answers the government has given to the Danish Parliament: they are clearly cleared of support for the SDF, even if the SDF has asked for it and the Kurdish self-government authorities have asked for it in areas such as learning more about human rights. Well, that kind of thing they want help with. And there I think it is a good thing that humanitarian aid is given, but that is something that needs to be looked at. Finally, I have also been inspired by the resolution adopted in the European Parliament while we have been talking here, because that is a very good resolution. You should read it. I know that our representative voted in favour of it and, moreover, helped to formulate it, and I am really looking forward to seeing how many of your other representatives have voted in favour of it, because if it is a majority, we can turn it into a resolution here in the Folketing, I am sure. Because I assume that your representatives in the European Parliament also represent you and not just represent themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154423	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154425	Thank you. It was also a former Member of the European Parliament who spoke there with dunders, we can hear. So, I think it is really important that we look at, as I have said before, what we have in concrete terms of important means of action in terms of influencing Turkey's behaviour, and in this respect we keep all the possibilities open by the Danish Government: what really can stop not only the military offensive but also, as is written in the conventions both by the Foreign Ministers, but also by the Heads of State and Government, Turkey withdraws again and we have a lasting solution based on peace and on a political transition and a new constitution in Syria? It is very important that we support this path, and we do so by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154505	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154506	Thank you for your positive comments on the proposal for a Middle East strategy. And it is absolutely true that the idea is of course not something of a Danish one, but it is, of course, that we as a sovereign state act appropriately. But the Minister himself is touching on the central problem, because the most central feature of the last two decades is a very poor ability in the political system in Denmark to anticipate the course of events. We have not anticipated the course of events, and this is a huge problem. And it may well be that we can't get better at it, but I think that some people who are much smarter than me and very many others in Denmark should have the chance to make us better able to anticipate the course of events. Otherwise the result will not be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154555	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154556	Thank you. Well, I kind of share sir. Henrik Dahl's wish that we not only in Denmark but in general in Europe should make a strategy. And we also have some strategies, but we need to rethink our strategy in relation to what we are doing in the Middle East. The reason why I mentioned the Arab partnership initiative that we have is because I think it is important, because it is about where Denmark can make a concrete difference with a dialogue with civil society, the promotion of human rights, freedom of the media, democratic rights, equality and the prevention of abuse of minorities and religious minorities. So there we can see that we can have some comparative advantages from the Danish side. But I think that if it is to have any real effect, it is the whole of Europe that must have a common strategy for this area, which is also about economic development, that is, how we get economic development going, so that these many young people who are a high population growth get started building society and getting something to live on instead of engaging in the conflicts that we have seen around the Middle East.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154659	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154700	But some of what has been most devastating in the Middle East over the past 20 years has been the emergence of power vacuums, and although there have also been other factors that have been very devastating, the power vacuum has had an extremely negative effect. So I would like to hear some further reflection on how to avoid power vacuums. After all, we cannot compensate them by occupying the areas in question... we must get rid of those power vacuums in a different way. I would just like to see a strong armament of thinking in this area, and I would like to hear a few comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154734	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154735	Well, I think there are several ways to play a role in relation to that power vacuum, for example. I think it is important that the countries of the Middle East themselves organise themselves in some regional structures, which also take responsibility for finding arrangements, for example. to solve security problems, trade problems, development problems, as we did in Europe after the Second World War, with the establishment of European cooperation, etc. We can also support this on the Danish and European side. We must support market access and ensure that we trade in these areas. And then we need to find out how, in dialogue with the countries of the Middle East, we can make our influence felt, both bilaterally from the Danish side, but also through like-minded countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154817	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154818	It is well known, I expect, that the alternative and the government look differently at what to do with the Danes who sit in the camps. So, the government wants them to be prosecuted down there... we think they should be brought back to Denmark and prosecuted here. That disagreement is there. But what about the Danish children who sit in the camps, who cannot be held responsible for having had parents who have made completely wrong choices? Does the government have a position on how to bring the Danish children home?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154853	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154854	We have also had an open consultation in the Legal Affairs Committee, where the Minister for Justice and I explained the Danish line. And yes, we want foreign fighters with Danish citizenship who have left Denmark to be prosecuted in the vicinity. They have so attached themselves to a terrorist organisation, the Islamic State, which is committing violence and abuse, and I believe that Mr. Uffe Elbæk knows how grotesque it is. Then there are some kids that we also handle... we have a line here. We look at each case individually, in terms of whether there is an acute life-threatening situation where we can then act on the part of the Danish authorities. But we have explained this, including in the Committee on Legal Affairs. There is a group of authorities which shed light on each case with the relevant authorities, and then decisions are taken from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154946	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024154947	Should I understand that the government is doing an active job in relation to the Danish children who sit in the camps to bring the children home? I cannot quite hear that that is what the Foreign Minister is saying. So I would like the Foreign Minister to clarify his answer. Specifically: What does Denmark do to bring the Danish children home?
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155009	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155011	Yes, it is now the parents who have gone down there, and some have given birth to children down there, and others have children with them. What is the clear line is that when you leave Denmark and join the Islamic State with Danish citizenship, it has some consequences. These people we don't want back to Denmark, despite having a Danish citizenship. They have turned their backs on Denmark, we want them prosecuted. It is clear that if someone has children, we handle each case on the basis of circumstances, that is, if there is an acute life-threatening relationship, for some humanitarian reasons we can go in and look at each case. This is done in a group of authorities, and these cases are highlighted individually. But it's not something we do actively. It's something we do when we get to know that there are some special conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155055	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Foreign Minister, so we thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mrs Flyvholm has then asked for the floor for a second round to conclude, I understand. So here you go, Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155118	Thank you all, I just want to say. I think it is so important that today we also had an opportunity to face each other here in the Danish Parliament and share a real, very deep concern about the attack that we have seen Turkey make both on civilians and on our very nearest allies, the Kurds, in this area. It's so crucial that we can't accept these attacks. And it is so important that we are now fully united in demanding that Turkey and their mercenaries be withdrawn from these areas. We have also agreed that Denmark's policy is that no arms should be exported to Turkey at all; it is also a strong and important signal to send. And we've agreed that the Kurds in these areas, or anyone who needs it in these areas, need humanitarian aid. In addition, while we have been standing here in the Folketing today, the European Parliament has adopted an insanely strong text which says that it is calling for the European governments also to take action to shut down trade agreements with Turkey if they do not withdraw and that we are ready to look to the end of this customs union, which is also in force. I think that is very important for us to follow up and that the Danish Government also supports these initiatives and that this is some of what we are doing in the future. Then I think that today in the Chamber I have also noticed a great many of you other parties have brought out the fact that there is a deep concern about what is happening right now and about what is going to happen to the Kurds and the many refugees and the many people who are in the areas under attack in the future. I think it is very, very important that we stop each other, that this is a concern that we must keep in mind. This means that they must be involved in the negotiations that are coming and that we must have direct meetings with them. It also means that we must continue to do everything we can to push Turkey out of these areas and find a solution that will allow Turkey to withdraw completely, but also that there will be a just and lasting peace and stability that will enable people to live in freedom and democracy in those areas. So thank you for that. It obliges us all, each and every one, to follow up on this in the future, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155355	Then we thank Mrs Flyvholm and thank those who took part in the debate here today. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposal for adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 5 November 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191024155413	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 25 October 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
