ParlaMint-DK_20190201100010	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Request no. F 36 (Will the Minister take the initiative to strengthen the Danish Climate Act?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing Nikolaj Villumsen, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 2 February 2019 onwards he can again meet in Tinget. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100057	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100133	I would like to start by thanking you for the opportunity that we can address this very fundamental issue today, even if this is not the first time we have turned the issue of scarves. The government strongly rejects social control. No one should be pressured to wear a scarf, and I am personally concerned that too often too often a veil is also an expression of social control. At the same time, the government is safeguarding personal freedom, including, of course, freedom of religion. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, which we are debating here today, concerns whether there should be a ban on religious headgear in all public workplaces. This should then apply to both state, municipalities and regions and should apply to everyone, regardless of the jobs involved. That proposal cannot be supported by the government. The Danish People's Party justifies the proposal by stating that wearing religious headgear is a private matter which one carries out in one's spare time. However, it is also included in the proposal that at the same time it should be allowed to carry small discrete religious symbols. So we are not talking about a ban on all symbols, but about a ban which in practice will only affect certain religious groups. At the same time, we are talking about a ban which must include all public employees in the state, municipalities and regions. So it must apply to everyone, whether you have a citizen's contact or not. It is the government's opinion that such a proposal cannot be implemented within the framework of the ECHR and the Constitution. As the proposal has been formulated, it is not proportional and it may involve discrimination, as it does not apply to all religious symbols. It follows from the European Convention on Human Rights that restrictions on freedom of religion can only be made if they result from law and are necessary in a democratic society. In our opinion, an absolute ban on all public servants using scarves is not proportionate. As I have said, the resolution also raises questions of discrimination under the Basic Law, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of faith. Although the ban does not directly aim at certain beliefs, the ban merely includes significant religious symbols, such as head covering, and there are therefore only certain beliefs, that is, that only those affected. There is no reference to objective considerations justifying such discrimination. I can therefore say today that the government cannot then vote in favour of the proposal put forward, but at the same time I would also like to stress that we should not accept parallel societies and social control in any way. Religion must obviously not affect decisions taken in the public sector and the service provided to citizens. We must solve the problems of parallel societies and also social control that exist in Denmark, but we must do so without undermining the rights and freedoms that we have in Denmark. I have to say that I think that this is a difficult balancing exercise, and there is no doubt that we need to take action, and we do have that, among other things. It is also the government's initiative to combat parallel societies, at the same time as the tireless work that is being done to combat social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100546	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100550	Thank you for your speech, in which, to put it mildly, the Minister is pulling the great guardian of principle out of the house, and it is almost laughable. The Minister would very much like to combat parallel societies, social control, etc. and so on, but when there is actually an opportunity to do something that is just common sense of snuff, which is, of course, to introduce some sort of code of costume into the public sector, rather like a uniform as in the police and defense, which says that here you can't wear religious headgear because it's an agitation for something particular, then the minister gets off. You have it in other countries. It is very easy to do and, of course, it does not violate the Constitution or the ECHR, nor does it promote discrimination or anything else. A dress code is just common sense at a time when we see a large proportion, a growing proportion, of the population, who advocate certain values while they are at work in the public sector. This is not acceptable, and I cannot understand why the Minister does not want to stop.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100703	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100704	No, but what you can say is the problem here is that it is just a matter of individual beliefs. It is in this that the disproportionately and discrimination arises. It is true that this has been done in other countries, for example. in France, but they have a slightly different historical division between state and religion than we have in Denmark. So you can't just draw the direct comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100740	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100742	I do not think that the Minister gave an answer as to why it is impossible to draw up a dress code when you have it in, for example. The defense and the police. Why can we not say that, in the public sector, we also have a form of uniform that is that we cannot wear religious headgear, that is, no matter what form of religious headgear is involved, it is just not acceptable in the public sector? Of course, it should not be forbidden to have certain religious beliefs, and it should certainly not be forbidden to show that one has a Christian, Muslim, Jewish or Buddhist identity by having, for example, a Christian or Buddhist identity. jewelry on, but wearing the head covering, which is a very, very violent symbol, is not possible; it cannot coincide with a work in the public sector where one has to appear neutral and professionally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100830	Again I would say that the problem is that just exactly religious headgear are only a few religious directions that use them, and therefore this discrimination will arise here. It's not like I'm making it up. In other words, it is, it has to be said, a strict legal assessment of this proposal and the importance it wants to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100859	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201100919	Thank you for the floor. With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party wishes to prohibit public employees from wearing religious headgear at work, both in the state, regions and municipalities, as is the case both with primary school teachers, cleaning staff and office staff. Last spring we discussed another resolution banning the use of distinctive religious symbols, including religious headgear, in primary school, both for pupils and staff, and the attitudes of social democracy have not changed since then. The population of Denmark has changed in character in recent decades. Among other things, a large Muslim minority has emerged, and this has meant an increasing public interest in religion, especially Islam. Here in the Folketing this has led to several discussions on the relationship between state and religion, and this is an important discussion. For social democracy, it is important that we maintain a secular political tradition, which means that democratically adopted legislation always takes precedence over religious rules, which means that we are discussing with secular arguments and do not recognise references to religious writings, and that means that we have independent judges. In other societies religious laws apply, and here political arguments are made with reference to religious texts, and religious authorities are considered to be the right ones to interpret and enforce the law. For social democracy, therefore, religion must not become a political matter, but it is equally important that religion should not be reduced to a private matter which must be hidden behind the four walls of the home. We have no problem with citizens signaling association with a particular religion, even if they are public servants. For social democracy, religion is a personal matter, and that means that the individual cannot expect society to submit to or conform to the individual's personal beliefs, but it also means that society accepts that the individual has the right to practice his or her beliefs openly and freely. So we see no general contradiction between democracy and religion, including Islam. However, we see a contradiction between democracy and totalitarian thinking, and here we have a particular challenge with groups that refer to Islam in particular as the reason for their anti-democratic positions. But this distinction is crucial, and that means we have to ask ourselves whether the scarf of a cleaning assistant in kindergarten poses a challenge to democracy, and we do not think that it does. It is different with policemen and the judiciary, which we must have special expectations of. They hold a position above their private person. The same cannot be said of all other public servants, as is argued in this motion for a resolution. It is with those words that I have to say that the Social Democrats recognise the growing necessity of the debate, but also that we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101208	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101210	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Mattias Tesfaye can see that this is a necessary debate. For what we are doing today is that we allow agitation for a certain ideology/religion towards kindergarten children, schoolchildren, patients, nursing homes etc., and that is not okay. That is why, of course, I do not understand why the rapporteur is rejecting the proposal, which should be a natural extension of the wish to maintain a Denmark which is long-term Danish. But would the rapporteur think it would be a good idea if a primary school teacher, a kindergarten teacher or a nurse or a sosu assistant in a nursing home were to work with Trumpkasket or wrapped in a red flag with hammer and seal on or carry a swastika or other very powerful political and ideological symbols? Would that be okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101322	I think that work, especially when working in the public sector, should always ensure that one's dress, one's appearance, fits the function one now has. There, I think, the responsibility rests more heavily on people who occupy positions that are above their personality than it does for people who are public servants... a gardener who has to mow grass in a park.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101356	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101358	Now it is with a gardener where the grass is not as influential to political messages, perhaps exactly the kind of example that one might say was less important. But when dealing with ordinary Danes, you should not send strong political signals that the way I am is the right thing, and what you others may be is wrong. It's not okay in a primary school or in a nursing home. So I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur not think that the Islamic head scarf sends out some very specific signals, as those who are in the room with him must, of course, in some way decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101446	I have no doubt that for some who wear the scarf, it is also an expression of sending out certain signals. But I think we should be careful to conclude that this applies to everyone. That is why I would also be cautious, for example. to say that those who clean my children's school cannot clean if they wear a scarf. I don't think that's a problem. I think it is important that we maintain that if we want to legislate on this, it is on the basis of some really experienced problems. And my experience is not that merely wearing religious headgear in itself is an expression of agitation, as the rapporteur has said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101526	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101548	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate again. It is not so many sessions since a similar proposal was made, B 58, which dealt with a ban on the use of distinctive religious symbols for pupils and teachers in primary school. At that time, the Left could not support the proposal because, according to the government, it could not be implemented within the framework of the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Now we are here again discussing a motion for a resolution on whether or not we should ban religious headgear in all public workplaces. According to the proposers, the ban must apply to all employees in the state, regions and municipalities, regardless of whether or not the employee is in contact with the public. However, it must still be allowed to carry small religious symbols, as the motion for a resolution says. In practice, therefore, the ban could affect certain religious groups, which are mainly Muslim women wearing a scarf. The proposal does not therefore cover all religious symbols and will therefore contain traces of discrimination. Although I personally may be concerned that not all women with scarf have chosen to wear it, I do not believe that a ban will solve the problems of parallel societies and social control. I believe that we must combat this in a different way, and this must be done within the current framework. With these words, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they cannot do so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101717	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101719	The Danish People's Party has made many proposals precisely to prevent Islamic agitation and Islamisation in the public sector, and we will continue to do so. I think this is one of the more successful proposals, because it is aimed at all religions, at all religious headgear. But there is no doubt that this has been caused by the fact that we are seeing a particular problem today. Well, it isn't Buddhists who rush out with Buddhist agitation, nor is there a Buddhist head covering, so they are not the problem. It is quite clear that Islam is the problem, and that is why we are making this proposal. But we're all hitting everyone with this, because it's all religious headgear that are banned in the public sector. In other words, it corresponds to a code of dress in the public sector. Would the rapporteur be opposed to the creation of a code of clothing in the public sector, where it was said that one should be neutral in religious and ideological terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101832	I believe that there is already a code of dress in the public sector, where appropriate. As Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned, we see within the armed forces, the police and elsewhere that there is this code, but I do not think it should cover the entire public sector. And to return to that part of Mrs Krarup's good question, I do not regard head covering as something that is being raised with. It is something that is done in words and speech to a much greater extent, and to the extent that you do it in words and speech, in other words, in any religious direction, when you are a public servant, you have a problem. I just don't think it's in the garment as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101919	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201101920	I find that very difficult to understand. This means that a Trump cap would not be a form of political message and that it would be quite okay in a school class if, as a teacher, I had such a or a communist scarf, a Komsomol scarf, on or had a swastika on my arm. I think most people would say that just isn't okay as a nurse, a schoolteacher or a kindergarten teacher. It is an implied norm that we have in Denmark, as there are some visitors who have not seen and have not seen, and therefore it is necessary to make it clearer. I do not understand why the rapporteur cannot see that we may have to introduce in some way a code of dress in the public sector, because some visitors have not quite adopted these standards in Denmark to act neutrally in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102014	If you come up to work with political symbols, a swastika or hammer and seal or something else, then it is a political ideology that is expressed. I am quite clear that there are some who use Islam as a political ideology, but there are also many for whom it is culturally conditional to wear a scarf and a silent religious manifestation that does not contain an agitation. So there is a difference between political and religious here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102047	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102103	Thank you. At these times, as a representative of our party, you can go to such a meeting as this and be a little worried about what the government is now saying and what the Social Democrats are now saying about such a proposal here. However, I would like to express my satisfaction at the way the Minister has argued in his presentation and also, as the Socialist rapporteur argued. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for having just looked at the important documents, documents of principle, on which we must also make policy, namely the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. There are also other documents to which I will return shortly. However, I am pleased that the Minister clearly says that such a proposal cannot be included within the provisions of the Constitution and within the European Convention on Human Rights. So Enhedslisten is also voting against this bill. We regard it as an unacceptable interference with freedom of religion, namely the ability of the believer to practice his religion. At the same time, it is an encroachment on the individual's right to dress as you like. In the view of the Enhedslisten, religious clothing must be allowed to carry public employees, i.e. in public workplaces, unless it is inappropriate for the performance of the duties of the employee. And this is an assessment made by the individual supervisor. If the local supervisor responsible for the work in question considers that it is inappropriate for the public employee to perform his work in the best way possible to wear any garment, regardless of whether it is religiously conditional or secularly conditional, if one can put it that way, then it is an assessment made by that manager. Then there may be some disputes between the employee and the manager about it, and we have some channels to decide that, ultimately a court of law. We agree with the proposers that policy should not be based on opinion polls, so we recommend that the proposers do not do so, just as it is not wise to make politics on the basis of what two nurses think. I am not an expert on the interpretation of human rights, but when you read the wording of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 18 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, you can have no doubt that the proposal is contrary to these conventions, some of which Denmark has ratified many years ago. Both conventions talk about the right to express a religion, among other things. By complying with religious regulations, and this is where we find regulations on various headgear. The Convention on Civil and Political Rights says that this right to express one's religion can in principle be limited by legislation, but only if necessary for reasons of public security, order, health or morality or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. And the proposers have not presented as much as a tiny shadow of evidence that religious headgear are in any way a threat to public security, order, health, etc., and I think they will find that difficult. When you look at the substance and comments of the proposal, it is probably more a question of the proposers not respecting these conventions and the fundamental human rights of freedom of thought, conscience and religion. And then there is one more agenda, namely that they will enforce the interpretation of Christianity by the Danish National Church by restricting the ability of other religions to comply with their religious precepts. The idea is apparently that when believers in the Danish National Church do not use religiously conditioned head covering, because we do not have that in the belief, then public servants of other religions should not be allowed to do so, and one can certainly not add Muslims in particular. What will be the next thing to do to ban religious headgear in public space at all? I am glad that the rapporteurs who have been on the floor so far have clearly set their feet on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102526	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102528	Thank you. It is a very grotesque argument that comes here: that it should be against religious freedom. This means that there is no freedom of religion in France, and that means that one cannot be a Muslim without having a head scarf of 24-7. That is simply wrong. There is no restriction on religious freedom in this proposal. You are perfectly allowed to have the religion you want, but when you hold a public office, you are not allowed to come with agitation through your appearance. Small, subtle symbols that you have a certain identity are, of course, perfectly okay. But having clear, violent symbols on which a head covering is, especially the Islamic one, which is both political and religious is what we are dealing with here; we are dealing here with a region which is as much political as it is religious; we believe that we are far beyond what can be allowed for civil servants, and that has nothing to do with freedom of religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102636	The rapporteur's argument confirms the impression I had received that Muslims are really being sought. Then, for the sake of good order, you do it, that you hurry to write all kinds of religious helmets, so as not to be attacked for it, and you know it doesn't last a metre. I know the rapporteur is trying to do that, but I am dealing with the conventions which Denmark has ratified and ratified, and I think it is important that we deal with them and that we respect them. It is quite clear that restrictions can be made on the ability of a religious community to exercise their religion, but that requires that it be justified in terms of public security, order, health or morality or the fundamental rights and freedoms of others. So that is the line of argument the rapporteurs must take if they want to interfere with the freedom of religion that is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102740	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102741	I simply think it is wrong to say that it is an encroachment on freedom of religion. That's not true. One can easily be of all sorts of religious beliefs. So it is not an interference in religious freedom that the rapporteur has misunderstood it and, if it were, then one must also say: it is so contrary to the morality of Denmark that we allow agitation to public employees during working hours. So if it were finally something that went against freedom of religion, one would have an excellent argument for it, but this does not go against freedom of religion. One can easily be a Muslim or a Jew, or whatever it is, without wearing one's religious head covering, when one is employed in the Danish public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102828	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102829	I do not know whether it is because the rapporteur cannot or does not want to hear the point. This is a restriction on the ability of believers to practice their religion and to follow the religious precepts of that religion. That is what the Convention is concerned with: that such limitations must not be imposed by law unless it can be justified by the fact that it is a serious threat and so on. against public health. That is what is at the heart of the whole matter. And that's why those conventions are really, even though you can discuss up and down posts, what morality is, screwed up very well, because it's not like they say that a single society must not go in and change legislation. 'Cause you can do that. You just have an argument and some justifications, you have to promise, which is very reasonable if you want a society that is connected and not aiming towards a society where the different faiths can lie and fight with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102930	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201102939	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this important and fundamental debate, although it also looks a bit like a family party, where you know all those who come and have heard most of the arguments before. But there's nothing wrong with family parties either. As the Minister has already mentioned, the proposal involves making some very difficult balances for reasons which point in different directions. Social control is a serious phenomenon. I read in Weekendavisen from 25 January 2019 about a Norwegian research report which even suggests that the problem is deeper than many people assume, and that it is because social control is a system that makes all people both practitioners and recipients, if I may say so, of social control; it is not the case that some people only exercise it and others are only affected by it. That makes it all the more difficult to deal with. To what the Minister has already said, I should like to add something that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also mentioned that the use of Islamic head scarf can also give women and non-Muslims a legitimate perception that in the wearer's optics they are such a kind of second-class person. Islamic theology generally establishes women as subordinate to men and unbelievers as subordinate to the rightful believers. I therefore believe that the balance is actually very good in Denmark as it stands today. In specific situations where citizens need to feel confident that the representatives of the State will meet them in a factual and neutral manner, it is possible, as is the case today, to introduce a clothing regulation which, among other things. rule out a Muslim head scarf. But, on the other hand, as politicians, we must remain within the limits laid down by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights, and that is where I think we might perhaps be able to have some more discussions in Parliament than we have already had, because Article 70 of the Constitution has not really been mentioned yet. We have touched on section 67, but section 70 states, for example, that religion cannot be used as a pretext for being exempt from its civil obligations, and I think that aspect of section 70 is a good thing that we could pay a little more attention to. However, an entirely general ban which can be interpreted discriminatoryally, as the Minister has said, is going too far. We therefore very much welcome the debate in LA, but we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103253	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103304	Thank you. In the alternative, we do not support this motion for a resolution... not surprisingly. First of all, I fully agree with both what the Minister said and what Mr. Henrik Dahl also just said that this proposal would, of course, be discriminatory against a population group in Denmark and is therefore contrary to our constitution so much longer it is probably not really. But when you hear the debate, I find it interesting that the Danish People's Party finds that if a public employee, for example. In a crèche, wearing a scarf, it seems agitative to a religion. It is interesting to have that argument. Most of us in here have probably had children who have gone to the crèche and have been to pick them up, and there has often been a visit in the Copenhagen area at least and probably in all sorts of other places too • educators or educators with either scarf or turban or something else; but that it should be agitating when you come to pick up your children in the crèche doesn't make any sense at all. Sometimes I think we just have to appeal for common sense to be used. Common sense is about delivering your child to the day care center and coming to pick it up and seeing that the child is happy and has had a good day and has been well cared for. That's what it's all about when your kid goes to the nursery. I do not think that the child thinks that one thing or another, when he looks at his educator or that the adult does so for that matter. When we adult parents go to the crèche and pick up our children, we're just interested that they've been taken care of. So I would really like to appeal to you to use your common sense in relation to what this is really about, and I think that the Danish People's Party sometimes sees ghosts, especially in this case. Then there is another point that I noticed, because the motion for a resolution says here that one should wear small religious symbols, such as. a crescent moon or a cross in a pendant, but one must not wear large and distinctive religious symbols. So I thought a little bit, where's the limit? Is it full, is it in weight? I mean, where's the line between small and big? I think that might be an interesting question. Is it the look that sees? As far as I am concerned, I can just say that I notice as much a cross in a necklace as others may do in relation to a scarf on a head. So the small and large thing, I think, maybe needs further clarification. But in any case, we are strongly opposed to this kind of proposal, so we cannot support it on the side of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103531	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103533	Well, I would like to help the rapporteur understand the motion for a resolution. There's nothing to draw a line between small and large symbols here... we're going for head covering. We say that religious headgear of any kind are a problem in the public sector. But it is clear that this is because we see the Islamic scarf rushing forward everywhere. That is the reason for it. But we say: all So it is aimed at everyone. But we don't want to hit people's identities. Of course, you should be allowed to carry symbols of what you are if they are small and manageable so it goes into the Danish tradition. But the rapporteur does not think that wearing a scarf is agitating. I believe that one is an advertising pillar for Islam and therefore for certain values when wearing an Islamic scarf. Are you agitating if you're wearing a Trump cap if you're wearing a swastika if you've wrapped yourself in a red flag with hammer and seal? Are you that agitating?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103638	I guess that depends on what your purpose is. One could easily argue that one was agitating if one brought a scarf with hammer and seal on when one came to work. It must be the employer's job to assess whether or not it is an agitating behaviour. But it also speaks in that when you wear a scarf, because you believe in a special god, it's about that that's what you do in your everyday life. If you come to work with a Trump cap on your head, it may be that you have a very concrete purpose for it. So I actually see a difference in the things I think it is not worthy of comparison. But again: it must be the employer who has to assess whether something is inappropriate or not at work. I don't think the Folketing should decide that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103719	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103722	After all, we see a very great anxiety when it comes to these cultural conflicts and religious conflicts around us in schools, in nursing homes, in crèches, etc., where leaders have very, very difficult to get their act together and say what they think is right and wrong. That is why we are saying that it is a good idea to come up with guidelines from Christiansborg which introduce some kind of code of conduct into the public sector. For it is true that it would be wonderful if the individual headmaster or crèche manager could say: Of course the Islamic scarf is not okay here because it is agitation. But we just don't see it; most people don't dare do it. So we have to help by introducing this kind of dress code.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103810	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103811	I disagree. I don't see it as agitation. I completely disagree that this is agitation. It is about respect for some who believe in a religion where you put on a scarf, just as others believe in a region where you do something else. It is not agitation, it is freedom of religion, it is the right to dress as you like. And I would say that we are still living away in a country where you have to dress as you like, thinking what you want, saying what you want, thinking what you want, and it is super important to me and to us in the Alternative that we continue to be allowed to do so. And I can also hear that the rest of the Danish Parliament is saying that today, so fortunately we are still a majority with that conviction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103844	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201103852	I feel quite like the Minister here, at least I agree with her speech. We must combat negative social control. No one must be forced to wear a particular piece of clothing or symbol, which is why we also have in the penal code a ban on forcing people to wear something specific. Maybe we should see if we could implement it better. That is why we must also work hard for much more equality and more freedom in Denmark for all groups and, of course, especially for those who are subject to some form of coercion or social control. And for me, this is where the fight stands: the fight for more freedom and more equality and against coercion, oppression and freedom. It must be combated. We do not do this by prohibiting people from wearing a scarf at work. On the contrary, if we did this, we would be imposing a state coercion, and that is stupid. It divides our society, it casts out certain sections of the population, it sends people out of the labour market potentially, and it is contrary to our fundamental values to force people's clothing unless it endangers the security of the empire. Can you be unfree and wear a scarf? Yeah. Can you be unfree without a scarf? That too. Can you be free and wear a scarf? Yeah. Can you be Danish and wear a scarf? Of course you can. And all those who fight social control, all those who work for freedom and equality, I take my hand. We should all take them in our hands. I welcome them in the fight, because we need to be many, and we need to come from everywhere, with and without scarf. And this proposal will go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104116	Thank you. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104119	Thank you. Let's take the little 3-year-old child who meets in kindergarten and meets the teacher who wears a head scarf, and ask the teacher: Why do you have that? Yes, there is the answer, it is, because God says that the woman should. Is it a reasonable situation to put the child, the little 3-year-old girl, into being met with that view? Is this how to meet in a public, taxpayer-funded child care institution in Denmark? Is it a reasonable situation to put our children in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104152	I hope that a teacher in a Danish institution who wears a scarf will say: that is because it is my religious belief; I would like to wear a scarf; it is my attachment to the God I now believe in or whatever reason it is doing so. If that educator says it's because God says that women should do it, then I actually think it's worth discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104228	Here you go, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104229	But what is the difference between the two statements, i.e. whether they say that they are your beliefs or explain why they are your beliefs, because that is what the texts say that you have to, because that is the way you have organized yourself in that culture? What's the difference between the two? The fact is that it is a child who meets an adult human being who must help him into society and who must develop what says: this is acceptable, that is how it should be. Does the rapporteur really think that children should be exposed to this? Or should children be allowed to make their own decisions about such things when they grow old enough to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104307	That's exactly what I'm arguing for children to have. Parents exercise every day all kinds of control over their children. And there can be many reasons why you carry different things. Because it stands in one place, it does not mean that it is the interpretation one has from wearing the scarf or a cross or all sorts of other symbols. After all, we cannot go in and stately regulate what is the individual's interpretation of the reason for wearing a religious symbol. Then it's state coercion, then we've interpreted for people. It's unfree, it's coercion, and I don't want to be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104345	Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104347	The rapporteur will take all those who fight for freedom and equality into his hands. I think that sounds beautiful, and if I could reach it, I'd reach a hand up there. However, the rapporteur expresses an abyss of naivety or ignorance when it comes to Islamic values. So don't think that the Imams or the traditional Muslims who ask women to wear a scarf, or those women who want to radiate traditional Islamic values by wearing a scarf, are fighting for equality and freedom. That's not true. If you understand what traditional Islam stands for, what mainstream, traditional Islam stands for, you will know that it stands for freedom. It says that women are worth less than men; that women must be beaten. In other words, what the rapporteur says is quite wrong. So why does the rapporteur want to take traditional mainstream Islam interpreters into his hands and believe that they are fighting for equality and freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104501	It's because I judge people by their actions and their attitudes. I think the rapporteur expresses an incredible lack of sense of reality and of the people who wear the scarf and fight for equality and freedom; I often encounter them. Because I don't exercise mind control. I'm judging by attitudes and actions. That is what our community of law is based on, and I shall continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104531	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104533	This isn't about mind control. It is a question of reading some symbols. In other words, will the rapporteur accept that now I have mentioned it many times Communist flags, swastikas, Trumpkaskets on people in the public sector who have to do with unbiased Danes? That's agitation. And there is also agitation in the Islamic scarf; it cannot be bypassed by certain signals. Otherwise it wouldn't matter. This has nothing to do with mind control, and it has nothing to do with freedom of religion. Of course you must have the religion you want. So that is simply a murky argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104619	I think the same is true of the rapporteur. For it is precisely a question of interpreting the individual woman's reason for wearing a scarf that must be explained by the individual and the reasons may be very different. And no, I don't think wearing a religious symbol is agitation. After all, all religion in public space is some kind of agitation, but it is not an agitation, a deliberate agitation, a provocation, something you want to provoke. It is an expression of one's religious beliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104653	Thank you to the rapporteur. The SF is not present, the Conservatives are covered by the Left, and that is why it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201104719	Denmark is a Christian country and there is freedom of religion in Denmark. That is the starting point which certainly should not be changed. But today we see more and more employees in the public sector wearing a scarf and thus advertising a particular religion, which in most interpretations is an anti-Christian and against religious freedom. I am talking about the Islamic scarf that many Muslim women choose to wear or are pressed to wear. When you wear an Islamic main scarf, you are a walking advertising column for certain values • Islamic values • just as you would be a walking advertising column for communism and communist values if you wrapped yourself in a red flag with hammers and sails, or for Nazism and Fascist values, if you wrapped yourself in a banner with swastikas. Or for Trump and trumpist values, if you put on a Trump cap. I think most school leaders would ask teachers who wore these kinds of political, ideological clothing items to put them down before they went into the class to teach. Because when it comes to political advertising in the public sector, most people can see the problem. But when it comes to religious political and not direct political messages sent out through clothes, it is often a matter of fear of touch. Here we see nurses, teachers, sosu assistants, etc. wear Islamic head scarf and thus send out certain signals to their unspeakable students or patients, without anyone lifting a finger. Of course, this should not be the case. Of course, a nurse, teacher or sosu assistant must first of all radiate professionalism and not agitation for certain religions, ideologies or political parties. That is why we must have done away with the scarf of public servants when they are at work. Of course, they can easily wear a necklace, an earring, a bracelet or other with a religious symbol, for example. a crescent moon if you want to show your Muslim identity while you're at work. But wearing the scarf, which in some interpretations is a follow-up to the Islamic sacred law, Sharia, is something quite different. It is a clear signal to everyone that it is important to comply with this law and that one differs from others by doing so. This is, as I mentioned earlier, an advertisement for a particular interpretation of Islam. This should not be allowed when you are employed in the Danish public sector. In recognition of the fact that it will be difficult to legislate separately against the Islamic main scarf, we in the Danish People's Party have tabled B-36, which generally targets all religious headgear on public employees when they are at work. I am sorry to make life harder for, among others. Jews, but my impression is that there are very, very few Jews employed in the public sector who actually wear religious headgear at their work. So the group we are going to hit without wishing it was very small. It is, of course, sad that with this resolution we are going to hit some that we do not want to hit, even if they are few. But unfortunately, that is the reality in today's Denmark. Because of immigration, we have got a mixed population, not to say a fragmented population, where not everyone can be expected to know the Danish tradition or back up the Danish tradition of being neutral and not agitation when doing work in the public sector. That is why we are going to hit some people who are not at all a problem because others are a problem, just as the 24-year rule came to hit a number of foreigners from non-EU countries who had no tradition of forced marriages at all. However, since it was not possible to legislate separately against the nationalities who had a tradition of forced marriages, we had to cut everyone apart. With this proposal, we will force everyone to take a stand on the issue of religious and ideological agitation in the public sector, and so everyone will be aware that it is a problem that we are now allowing agitation towards children, patients and nursing homes. It can cause anger, insecurity and confusion, and it should not be allowed. That is why, of course, I had hoped that at least some parties in the House would support this proposal for neutrality in the public sector. However, it is evident that there is so much opposition to neutrality in the public sector that no party has wanted to say yes to this harmless proposal, which we will of course try to retable at a later stage with new wordings, so that it may become clearer for people. I also believe that we may have to wait for the exchange rate to move forward. We have done so in the Danish People's Party. We have actually pushed the discourse since 1995, so the debate on foreigners is quite, quite different today than it did in the 1990s. So I think that the way forward for us in the Danish People's Party to achieve neutrality among public employees in the performance of their jobs is to keep making this proposal and wait for the discourse to change. Because it is not serious objections that come when people talk about it affecting freedom of religion. That is quite simply wrong, because one can easily be religious and also show what I said with jewelry, if that is what one wants, while at the same time saying yes to a dress code. After all, it is not the case that police or defence employees are forced to convert to Danish folk church Christianity to work there, or to abandon another religion. So these aren't serious investments. However, as I said, I understand that there are some who are politically not ready to demand neutrality in the public sector today. But I expect that it will come at some point when the exchange rate has moved further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105421	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105424	Thank you. I believe that the rapporteur has still not understood what freedom of belief is. After all, this is about the freedom to practise religion, and this is the freedom that the rapporteur wants to restrict with this motion for a resolution. Then the rapporteur talks about the fact that it is an expression of fear of contact in public places when there is no action against these religious headgear. Has the rapporteur considered that it might be something quite different, namely that the managers responsible for the workplace in question do not at all see this as a problem, and that their colleagues and patients generally do not see it as a problem, and that the public employees, for example, bear responsibility for it? Is it true that a scarf or a kipa, if that is the case, or a turban, actually disputes their work in the very best way and that the religious head covering is no obstacle to it? Has the rapporteur considered that this could be the reality? If the reality is that, what is the purpose of this motion for a resolution? It can only be to whip up a mood, so that we have a hatred between different religions, and so that we have a hatred against a particular group of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105544	Thank you, and here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105546	These are some very strange accusations that come in there. It is a problem for a great many parents to deliver their children in crèches, where women wear scarf, or to visit nursing homes, where residents are cared for by people who may well be able to do their job, and that is fine, because I do not want to deny that, but at the same time send out a signal that women are worth less, men must beat women who are not to be religious freedom, there are some who are subhumans and some who are superhumans. That's an unpleasant signal. Not everyone preaches it directly. Some people do, but not everyone does, because they may not be aware of the signs in their headscarf, just as there are certainly some who might put on a swastika or a communist symbol, and do not know that communism is responsible for the killing of millions and millions of people, and a distinction between over- and under-humans, etc. Some people may think it's not like that, but I don't think it's gonna make a school manager say it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105657	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105659	My impression of both Danish schools and Danish day care institutions is that parents have a quite large influence and a big word to say and that there is a very good cooperation between parents and the institution concerned. So if this really was such a big problem as the rapporteur is trying to do, then we would probably have heard much more about it, and then there would probably have been local issues in this regard too. But it's very, very limited. I would like to go a little further on the argument I had before. The rapporteur's message is: unfortunately, we also have to take action against the Jews. We're sorry, Jews, but it's the Muslims' fault that we have to punish you. If it is not an attempt to incite hatred between different religions and divide our society, then I do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105748	The debate is about to end, and we must be careful that it does not get too much here in the end. And that's both of them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105754	It is quite true that this proposal is aimed at the Islamic scarf, and that is why we need to make a general proposal, because we must not make proposals aimed at a particular group. But it's not hate. Where would that come from? It is a question of whether the public sector should be neutral or not. I compare this with the 24-year rule, where we also had to lay down general rules for everyone in order to avoid forced marriages, while, of course, it would have been better if it were aimed at the few nationalities who actually carry out forced marriages. However, the legislation does not allow this to be done, which is why it has to be done in general. But it is a misunderstanding of the proposal to say that it is against religious freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105843	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105858	The debate is open. Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201105916	I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. I therefore understand very well that the cases we have seen uncovered in the press are offensive to the relatives of the victims of the crimes in particular. I have therefore already started an investigation into what can be done to limit the visits of people sentenced to life. On the other hand, I do not think that, as the motion for a resolution proposes, we should already be determined to say that we are examining it and then we have already decided what should happen, that is to say what solution should be adopted. The order must be that you first examine options and then decide which way you want to go. Specifically, I think we need to clarify what we have in terms of our international obligations in terms of both timing and content of visits. And then I think it is interesting to discuss who it should include during what period. Well, now we're talking life-timers, but I'd also like us to have this checked out. We're gonna look at the guards. What about them? Is there anything else we should look at? We need to clarify that. That is why I cannot support the motion for a resolution. I agree with the first part, that is to say we need to have it examined, but I would like to see the result of the study before we decide in advance what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110028	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110040	Three times Peter Lundin has been married while he has been imprisoned for the cruel murder of Marianne Pedersen and her two little boys. Peter Madsen has apparently been visited by several women who have visited him after he was imprisoned and convicted of the bestialous murder of Kim Wahl. It is an insult to the victims and their survivors that people who have committed such unforgivable crimes, from almost the day they are in prison, can get married in stripes and receive visits from women in this way. It hits the sense of justice. The purpose of the motion for a resolution here is to require the government to examine the possibilities of restricting prisoners sentenced to life in order to establish new relationships with people outside prison. At the moment it is the case that visits from the outset are a right which the prisoner has but which can be deprived of if he or she does not behave properly. We really think that there is good reason for it to be reversed, so as to earn the right to start these new acquaintances. In the social democracy, we are at least open to it being looked at, and that is essentially what the proposal here also refers to. We think it is a good thing that we are putting an end to the idea that our prisons can be interpreted as some kind of dating centre for people who have committed some of the worst crimes you can possibly imagine that is what we should remember here and on that basis I must say that we can support the motion for a resolution here, but will call for it to be reversed, so that this matter of having visitors becomes an income right. Because we recognise that there are resocializing effects in it in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110235	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110243	Firstly, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Radicals, the Conservatives and the SF, I must inform you that they cannot support the proposal. It was, of course, tempting to use the authorization I have been given to agree to tax cuts in every respect, but unfortunately it is only extended to say that the proposal is not supported. However, the Left supports the outrage expressed by the proposal. I can tell you that we cannot support the proposal, but we fully understand the outrage. For example, when it is emphasized that, as a life sentence and with three murders on the conscience, one can spend 47 hours a month with one's spouse in a prison apartment, something might suggest that the rules are rightly in charge of a closer examination. As I understand it, that is what the Ministry of Justice is doing, at least that is what the Minister has just said. In general, can the terms of service be differentiated according to the crime and the length of the sentence? This is a question on which we would also like the Ministry's answer in this round. Can we do this in such a way that conditions are different for a person who is given a time-limit of 14 years in prison than for the person who gets a life sentence and may still have the prospect of being released after 14 years? Let's get this straight. And in this review, one could then appropriately consider whether conditions can be changed for foreign criminals, i.e. whether they should sit under the same conditions as Danish criminals. All this is being investigated by the Justice Department. We're waiting for that investigation. For the time being, we must say that we cannot vote in favour of the proposal with the wording it now has, but we will look into it when the Ministry's investigation is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110446	Thank you. I simply have to ask the rapporteur once again to repeat the long list of parties which have left their rapporteur's speech to the rapporteur of the Left, because I simply could not keep up with that. Well, that's unusual. I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110501	Yes, I can only agree with the President. This concerns the Enhedslisten, the Radicals, the Conservatives and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110523	It's kind of hard to keep up. Now we skip the Enhedslisten. We're coming to Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110536	Thank you. Apparently that's how it feels to be Parliament's second largest party, it must be. Then you've tried it. I share the concern expressed by the authors of the motion for a resolution before us for the survivors of the victims, but I also believe that the authors of the motion for a resolution anticipate the outcome of the study launched by the Ministry of Justice when the authors of the motion for a resolution demand that such a study be followed up by legislative proposals or administrative regulations. It is, of course, anticipating the conclusion of an investigation. In the Liberal Alliance, we will first see the results of such an investigation before we decide what can and should be done about anything in relation to life-time relations. On this basis, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110637	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110648	Thank you. In the alternative, we cannot support this resolution either. We are happy to await the outcome of the investigation referred to by the Minister of Justice and, of course, we shall deal with it when it comes. But it is clear that some of what is important to us is that there are some conventions that must be respected in relation to the rights that you have, whether you are doomed to life or something else. The prison association has been warning against this motion for a resolution, and I think we should listen to some of the professionals who are out to comment on what it will be important to say, for the environment and, of course, for the impact on possible rehabilitation. This does not mean that we do not want to look at the results of the study that is coming, we do so with interest. I think we also need to address the fact that the women in question who have visited these men in prison have done so of their own free will. So there is also one element which, I think, we should at least take into account, so that as a state we should not go into deciding completely on the lives of all citizens, which I think this could be a step towards. But, of course, we share the concern that is out there, and we think that, as a Parliament, we should be careful to go in and decide whether prisoners sentenced to life should be visited in prison. So it's gonna be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110802	Mrs Trine Bramsen has a brief comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110806	The reason I have just taken the floor is that the rapporteur refers to conventions. That is why I would like the rapporteur to explain what conventions prevent such a proposal from being implemented here. What exactly is it for conventions which, for example, violate human rights or something else with this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110826	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110832	Thank you. I cannot explain that specifically, because I have not taken into account exactly what the details are, but, as far as I am aware, there are some elements of the Convention on Human Rights which are specifically concerned with the issue of what rights you have, for example. has been detained. We're gonna have to go inside and take a look. I haven't sat down and looked at it in detail at all. So it is more of an overall, one might say, orientation that we should remember to comply with it. If there are any conventions in this area, we must, of course, abide by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are here with the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jeppe Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201110905	Thank you for that and thank you to the parties of the Danish Parliament who chose to deal with this proposal with so much respect that they came to the Chamber today to discuss it. I understand that the Conservative People's Party is running major campaigns on Facebook on how firm they are in the law policy, but a resolution on terms of service for convicted murderers is obviously not something that you can see a rapporteur discussing in the Chamber. That's too bad, of course. The Department of Police has reported that on 19 April 2018 there were 25 life sentences in its institutions. These are the worst criminals in the country. They have killed people and, in some cases, subsequently dismembered the body. We do not believe that these killers should have the same privileges as other inmates. The crimes committed by the life sentence have often been talked about by the media, and the convicted end up being known to the country. We believe that it is deeply unreasonable that life sentences can first use the celebrity that they get through the media in connection with the trial to meet friends and, in some cases, then use criminal justice as a marriage centre. Today, it is far too easy for a life sentence to make new acquaintances and receive visits from them. As an example, Peter Lundin was married to a woman in Herstedvester Prison in 2011. When she was to meet him, it was unsupervised, and she simply had to fill out a request for a visitor's permit and later stated the following: "I had a ten - minute interview with a psychologist, where Peter Lundin was present. So he asked the psychologist if I was aware of what he was convicted of, and I just said yes to that. ▪ When she visited him, it took place in the prison's visiting apartments. She reports that in a few months she went from visiting him 5 hours a month to spending as much as 47 hours a month in the visiting apartment with Peter Lundin. The current situation is extremely frustrating for the victims' survivors. Those who have really hurt someone you care about are allowed to live something that is almost like a normal life with dating and marriage. The aim of this proposal is to examine the possibilities for limiting life-time prisoners in creating new relationships with people outside prison. That is why, of course, we are pleased that the Social Democrats want to support the proposal, and we note that a consensus is expressed by several of the parties of the Folketing on what we would like to achieve with the proposal, but that we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. This is one of the things I have had to get used to, at least as a member of Parliament, when we have negotiated in this Chamber, namely that there are quite often parties that agree with everything you stand and say, but will not do anything about it and that you do not intend to vote for it. This is obviously political life. I hope that the government then does more about it than just investigate it, and that, when you do this investigation, you actually bite to fuck and get something done about it here, because it's really deeply offensive to the sense of justice that an inmate can live so uninfluenced a life as life-time-judged for some of the worst that you can commit as a human being. I have a strong expectation, at least when you run big campaigns on Facebook that you are hard on the criminals, that you then do something about it in the real world. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111245	Thank you. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111248	I would just like to supplement the rapporteur's speech by saying that I mentioned four parties from which I should like to say that they could not support the proposal. The rapporteur now refers in particular to the absence of the Conservatives. I was not aware of the need to justify or produce a medical certificate, but I can say that Mr. Naser Khader is sick and that's why he's not here. Otherwise, I can guarantee that he would be here to take part in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111314	Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111321	I am also not the legal rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, but the Danish People's Party will present a rapporteur in the Chamber when there are cases before the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111333	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190201111346	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 February 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
