ParlaMint-DK_20190412100005	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill no. L 226. Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the costs of members of parliament, reimbursement, sick leave and maternity leave. ) Titles on the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Prime Minister (Lars Løkke Rasmussen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2019. R 17). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 21 May 2019. The Minister for the Elderly (Thyra Frank) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the elderly area 2019. R 16). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 9 May 2019. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted a report on parliamentary investigations. 9). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412100202	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412100238	The debate is open, and it is first the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412100308	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF for strengthening the supervision of consumer loans, the so-called quick loan market. The resolution instructs the government to put forward a legislative proposal which will tighten the rules on quick loans and ensure better rights for consumers in connection with the admission of quick loans. The motion for a resolution states that the government must put forward a legislative proposal which will create greater transparency for consumers, tighten up the rules for advertising quick loans in the public domain, set a ceiling on interest rates and charges and set a ceiling on the number of quick loans and the total amount of debt a borrower can take up. Although it is described as quite specific wishes, I also read the motion for a resolution in such a way that the SF would like to discuss the precise methods of ensuring increased consumer protection in this area. The Government agrees that there is evidence that many consumers face difficulties in the consumer credit market. We know that many regret having made quick loans or having problems paying back. Therefore, the government also agrees that there is a need to increase consumer protection in the consumer credit market, including quick loans. That is also why, in 2017, we introduced a 48-hour reflection period to take short-term consumer loans. We have just recently allowed the FSA to supervise the companies offering so-called quick loans in order to strengthen consumer safety in this area by means of a legislative proposal that has been voted through in the Folketing. The government has also set up a working group to make proposals to increase consumer protection in this area. It is the government's opinion that today's motion for a resolution, tabled by the SF, should be rejected. It should not be because we disagree in the direction, but it should be because I and the rest of the government would like to have time to consider the debriefing that comes from our working group here in a very short time before we finally take a position on concrete proposals. However, we welcome many of the elements of the SF resolution. I also expect some of the elements in the motion for a resolution to be taken into account when we get a report from the working group and then decide politically what we are going to do. However, it would be a little strange to set up a working group to come up with some proposals on what to do in the Quick Loan market and to see before the working group is completed a concrete motion for a resolution votes through with some very concrete measures. So we shall now reject the motion for a resolution and then wait and take a round on the basis of the proposals of the working group. But let me make a few comments on the specific proposals contained in the SF resolution. The first initiative, which is about greater transparency for consumers, is an initiative in which, among other things, it is one of the priorities. The motion for a resolution stresses that quick loan providers must be obliged to disclose clearly and clearly the full amount of the repayment in both crowns and percent. Consumer credit providers are already obliged to provide a number of information, including: the full amount of the refund. At first sight, we cannot support this initiative. We believe that there are, in fact, some quite good information obligations already. But there is an important point in the initiative, and that is that it must not be unnecessarily expensive or complicated to repay your debt. In fact, I have also been approached by people who have told me that they have had difficulty in paying off their consumer loans, because it can apparently sometimes be difficult to be allowed to pay back. And there is a challenge in that, which I think we should look at. It should be easy to be allowed to repay your debt, but there have been examples where the repayment procedure has been unnecessarily complicated. So there is a point in that and, as I said, we would like to discuss how to address it. In the second initiative to tighten up the rules on advertising for quick loans in public spaces, the resolution highlights here the aggressive and targeted marketing, which is often seen in connection with inter alia. game ads on TV. And it's not something that gets me in such a good mood that you're watching a football game, and then you first see an advertisement that you can now play on some particular result, and then you see afterwards: You can borrow money here with a quick loan, so you can bet that the FCK wins over Brøndby, or whatever it may be. It is a little shaky, and we are therefore also in favour of looking at whether we can tighten the rules in this area. And it is also part of the task of the working group to consider what framework there should be for more appropriate marketing of consumer loans. In relation to the third initiative in the motion for a resolution, which is about setting a ceiling on interest and fees, I have noted that the interbranch organisation Financial Denmark is now setting up an upper ceiling of 50%. Here the government is unanswered about the direction in which we want to go, and I will not draw any conclusions today about what the government might want. The fourth initiative is to set a ceiling on the number of quick loans a borrower can take up and the total amount of debt you can have, and to make demands on the creation of a national register to be used by providers for the issue of loans. There is no doubt that there may be some concern about the creation of national registers where all sorts of people can get information about people's private economy, and I think we should consider these before we go too far down that road. Another way to go, and as we have already gone some way, is to make greater demands on the rating of the providers. That's one of them. Therefore, that we have now transferred the supervision of consumer credit activity to the FSA, that is, because we consider that they are the strongest in assessing whether proper credit ratings are being made. I think it is wrong to have business models which are based on open-minded lending to people who do not need them. I do not think that is the case. definition is something wrong with consumer loans. It's okay that people can borrow money if they have low income for a period of time and need extra money. However, the business model where you deliberately either go for or at least accept to have customers that you know will end up in a situation where they cannot repay the loan, I do not see it as a proper way of doing business. To sum up: we agree with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution. We will not be voting for the motion for a resolution right now, and we will not do so because we have set up the working group that should be allowed to report before we decide what action we want to take in relation to consumer loans. We welcome many of the concrete parts of the resolution and many of them will also be included in the discussions that I expect we will have when we have the report back by the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101104	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101109	Thank you. The Minister for Industry is the fifth Minister for Industry with whom I, as a business rapporteur, have discussed quick loans. What I have most often heard is that these changing governments are on the way with something, that there is also a need to tighten up, that a working group is being set up or that you are looking at it in the Ministry. Of course, this should not be the case with the current Minister of Business. It is just to explain my impatience a little bit. After all, we are hearing from Finance Denmark on the basis of a judgment in Østre Landsret, in which the verdict from the city court was reworded that a peak of 760 per cent. was not contrary to the law that the law clearly does not work when this extreme case is not illegal either. We also have the Consumer Council Thinking, which proposes a limit, and that is something that has made very good sense in Britain. So will the Minister of Business say a little more about this putting an a-up limit on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101229	Yeah. I understand the impatience. We have also tried to implement measures such as: a period of reflection which has then been bypassed by parts of the industry, and then we have to take another round. It is, of course, an annoyance to show the creativity to bypass the rules, so that what has been intended by the Folketing has not worked. Among other things: That's why it takes a few rounds before we get this straight. Then there can be a parliamentary election, and it is also a little difficult to avoid going through too, and that means that it is probably not the case right now that we can legislate on this side of the election. As I have said, with regard to an upper ceiling, the government is unsolved. There is certainly much to advocate that people should not be allowed to charge quite exorbitant interest. There are also some challenges, especially with the very short loans. If you borrow money for one week and then just take 1%, you actually end up with very high-up, without necessarily being unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101340	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101341	It is clear that the specific arrangements need to be discussed in greater detail, but the idea of this is, of course, to force the quick loan companies to assess better if you have a ceiling. And when the business model means that 30%. If the industry makes money, it is on bad payers, on interest on late payments, on penalties, on deferrals, etc., then it is simply not true when the industry says that you are not interested in bad payers, because why should you be? We can just see in the Competition Authority's own report that 30%. of what they earn is simply based on bad payers. My final question is this: did I understand the Minister correctly that, in relation to this very aggressive marketing, we ourselves, for example, have to deal with. mentally ill, where relatives have asked these companies to stay away, and where it is broken over and over again, must have put in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101436	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101438	I share the view that there seems to be someone who deliberately accepts if not directly targeting bad payers and giving them loans that they should not have had because their economy cannot bear it. Then they end up having to pay penalty interest, and that is what in some cases appears to be the business model. And I don't think that, as I said, is a proper way of doing business. You have to think about whether an apo-ceiling is the right thing to do. It may also be that there are, for example, Just have to be a ceiling on how much the cost of a loan must be in crowns. There are different ways of capping the exploitation of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101515	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101519	Thank you. What we are seeing at this time is also that a number of financial institutions, i.e. traditional financial institutions, are also starting to offer quick-loan-like products. Is the working group that will soon be waging us perhaps also able to find out when only the consumer credit banks will be able to use, or will it also include traditional financial institutions offering the same types of products? 'Cause if we don't, we're just gonna risk the monkey moving on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101600	It is primarily the products that are focused on, and not so much where they are offered from. It is not the case that it has to be different rules if you are a bank, compared to if you call yourself something else. So, of course, there should be the same rules, regardless of who is offering the products. That is also why we have tried to standardise the conditions by, among others. to transfer the supervision of consumer credit providers to the FSA, so that they are subject to the same type of supervision as the banks are, and that means that there are more equal conditions for the different providers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101638	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101639	But today what defines a quick loan is the provider that is of it. So it's more just to understand how to limit the regulation of quick loans. Then it will surely be more a general regulation of at least consumer loans, and is that what is in the mandate of that working group?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101709	But I also believe that similar rules should apply. If you consider setting limits and introducing other rules, it should not be different depending on who it is. If there is a bank offering consumer credit and there should be a ceiling on the cost of it, then it should apply regardless of whether it was a consumer loan provider that made nothing else or whether it was a bank that had it as a side product.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101739	Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101742	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister also feels somewhat piqued by the advertisements that you can see everywhere in the public space, and I would like to hear how far the Minister is willing to go to get those advertisements away from the public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101802	That is one of the points we are in the process of clarifying, because, among other things, there is one thing that needs to be clarified. It has been a bit uncertain how much we really have to do in relation to EU rules how much we really have to impose restrictions on what we have to advertise on consumer loans. So I don't have a complete proposal on what exactly we're going to do. As I said, I share the view that there is something strange in some of this very aggressive marketing that is being conducted, but I do not have any suggestions today on how we will address it more specifically. That is why we first need the working group that we have set up to look at it to provide their reporting and then to discuss it politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101847	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101848	We can do this in the tobacco sector and in the alcohol sector, so it might well be that we could also do it here. I would also like to know if there is anything in addition to the working group that makes the minister stop going all the way to get total control over this industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101909	Yes, there is. There are, of course, considerations of general contractual freedom. A citizen's government's starting point is that people are allowed to buy products that they think they need, although we may not personally think they are the most sensible products. So the starting point of a bourgeois government is not to go into banning everything that people want. So there is certainly consideration that also draws the other way, but there is also a limit to what we think is a proper way of doing business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412101945	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the Minister in this round. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102005	Thank you to the Socialist People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. It is an absolutely serious matter that quick loans flourish to the extent that they do and, in particular, that they leave a large number of Danes in almost hopeless debt, where one quick loan is taken up in order to pay off the other. The bad spiral is immensely easy to get into, but creepy hard to get out of. That is why it is absolutely necessary for us here in Parliament to take the spoon into the other hand and introduce legislation that can control this industry while, of course, we stick to the fact that we must be able to borrow for consumption. The intention is not to prevent short-term loans, but to ensure that only people who can pay back are borrowed. So, yes, it is high time that legislative action was taken. One and a half years ago, the Socialist People's Party last had a resolution in this Chamber on an upper limit for the year-end, i.e. annual costs as a percentage. At the time, I indicated that there were many more areas where quick loans had to be checked, and I will say that this time too, although the authors of the motion for a resolution should be praised for having more areas included in this motion for a resolution which we are debating today. Last summer, the Social Democratic Party published ten recommendations on how we can have much more control over quick loans, and these are the ten recommendations that we in the Socialist Group believe are necessary. We're gonna set a ceiling on credit risk. It is like a built-in part of the business model of quick loan providers that they often lend money to people who are unable to repay the money. This has incalculable personal consequences for the individual borrower, but for quick loan providers it is a calculated risk that some loans will not be repaid. That is why we are proposing to introduce a ceiling on the credit risk of quick loan providers, so as to ensure that no quick loan is granted to consumers with very low credit rating. We will also ensure that the possibility of repaying loans is as easy as the possibility of it being taken up. We want greater transparency in the law, requiring loan providers to ensure that information on the full repayment amount is provided in both DKK and percent, so that consumers are informed about and have understood the cost of borrowing quick loans. We want stricter supervision by the FSA, which, through annual supervision, has to check that the legislation is complied with and that there is no deliberate lending to consumers who cannot pay back. Here's the minister with a bill. In addition, we want quality labelling for quick loan providers, which must be included in the marketing material. Quick loan providers must be included in the future national credit register. The objective should be that all consumer loan providers should report their loan data on a daily basis. In this way, loan providers can see whether a customer has other consumer loans and how much the loans are. We also want quick loan providers to be covered by rules on good practice, and the Minister has also had legislative proposals on this recently. Then there is 48-hour report time on all consumer loans. Yes, we were hoping that would be a very good idea, but it turned out that it is being bypassed by the lenders by giving credits and extending the term by more than 3 months. That is why we are proposing to introduce 48-hour reporting time on all consumer loans so that loan providers cannot circumvent the rule. We would like to see a maximum of two quick loans per year. person at a time. We will also have a ceiling on the interest rate on mora, which is the additional interest cost of defaulted loans. We want a ban on quick loan advertising in public spaces, because we believe that it is equivalent to alcohol, and it is, of course, prohibited in public spaces, social media, television and radio. Today there are too many advertisements in public spaces advertising quick loans, where thousands of dollars can be borrowed in a few minutes without having to provide security. Finally, we have recently decided to work with the setting of an upper ceiling so that we can be free of ad-hoc interest of over 700 per cent. a year. So we are sending a signal to the SF that, if we come to form a government after the forthcoming elections, we will put forward legislative proposals that will very significantly control the Quick Loan market. We will go further than the SF does with this resolution. We agree on this, but we want to tighten up controls even more in order to protect consumers. We are not going to support the resolution, but it is only because we want to regulate all aspects of a single piece of legislation rather than to do so several times. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102521	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102524	Thank you, and thank you for a clear speech. It is very positive that the Social Democrats say so clearly that something has to happen, because experience is unfortunately that during the four years in which the government was in power, no action was taken and no action was taken to stop these ugly business practices. Can the rapporteur set a date? I mean, is it in the first session when we meet again after Parliament's vacation I am not one of those who meet, but when my esteemed colleagues meet that this proposal will be put forward, or is it something we have to wait even longer for, while new socially vulnerable people are being tricked into these traps?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102612	It may not be possible for me to set a date, but I will do what I can to ensure that it is included in a future government basis if it is we who are going to form a government. I would also like to say that this problem is so high on the Socialist agenda that I imagine it is not something we should wait four years for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102634	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102637	Thank you. Now I have put forward this proposal in various ways many times, the last time with an opt-up ceiling of 15%. over the discount account. There the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, said that it was going too far in relation to what the Social Democratic Party wanted. Then I thought that I would simply have to keep trying until I found some method or model where there would be a majority of people who would support it, so I put together some of the proposals that the Social Democratic Party itself has made in this motion for a resolution, because I thought that then the Social Democratic Party must be able to vote in favour of it when it is the Social Democrats' own proposals that have been put forward. Now I am told that this does not go far enough. Why not just support what is still a few points that the Social Democratic Party has been out to air, so that we will at least come some way along the way? Of course, I also hope for a change of government, but we cannot allow ourselves to be guided by that in our work. We have to vote in favour of what we think is the right way to go, even if we do not achieve it fully.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102747	But this is with regard to the op that was up here a year and a half ago, we have now decided that yes, we also think there should be a ceiling on the op, so this is kind of just another stick for us to come all the way. The reason why we are not voting in favour is because we want this to be something that is being done at once, so that we do not put a government to do part of what we would like to have done, but that we see if we have a social democratic government after the elections. If we do, we will go all the way with all the points I have mentioned here. So I am sure that together we will achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102830	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102832	Thank you. And if, unfortunately, it turns out that we do not have a social democratic government, should we not agree that the SF and the Social Democrats and possibly other parties sit down and make this full resolution, which we can then all vote for? I hope that the rapporteur will be a part of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102853	I would like to answer that clearly: yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102858	Thank you for that, and then there are no more comments. Let's move on. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412102906	If you follow this debate and otherwise you have followed the other discussions we have had here in the Danish Parliament about the quick loan market and the way in which the area is regulated, then many may be left with more questions than answers. Since 2011, there have been six different business ministers. The two of them actually came from the SF, who are the authors of this motion for a resolution, and the third came from the Social Democratic Party. Mrs Karin Gaardsted has just told us how important this is and that it should even be in the government base. Excuse me, then, why has nothing been done about this with the three ministers that the two parties have managed to have had during the last period of government? That is where I think it is a little quirky in relation to the intentions behind it, and perhaps that is why the Enhedslisten's rapporteur chooses to ask the rapporteur about it, because that is something we can only wonder about. If this is so extremely important for the parties, why have the three ministers held in the chair not been instructed to deal with these matters? We have not been able to do so because we have not been in agreement. That is, in fact, a fact. You don't have to look very far after that. So I think we should leave that alone. Now we are trying to polish the gloria a little by making ourselves better in this Chamber by discussing consumer rights and regulating the quick loan market. In many ways this is a discussion that we are taking on, of course, but with regard to, for example, the proposal in this issue on stricter rules for advertising, I think the proposers may forget that a great many of those advertisements come from foreign media. They come from broadcasting permits in London or elsewhere, it is companies coming from Malta that come into Danish consumers via foreign media, where it cannot be regulated by Danish law. A lot of people get their advertisements via their iPads or iPhones or from websites or from televisions that are sent from other countries, for example from England on TV3 • just to give an example. That is why it will be wonderfully wasted if you think that you can get rid of this by, for example, using these kinds of initiatives. In the Danish People's Party, we share the basic premise that the types of quick loans that exist in Denmark must be limited, and they must be better in terms of dealing with consumer law conditions. After all, we have done it with the 48-hour rule that we in the Danish People's Party have said that we would very much like this period of reflection, the period of withdrawal, to be tightened precisely to ensure that people do not absorb unnecessary quick loans for the benefit of the individual consumer himself. In the Danish People's Party we have also said that the rating must therefore be the basic premise for whether one can even get into a situation where one can be entitled to a loan. There we can see that the credit rating is very slow today. It is also where those offering the loans cannot agree on how to allow each other access to information, etc. in relation to a very good credit rating, so that credit can be removed from those people who are either already mortgaged with other types of bad loans or who do not have the ability to pay or have the assets to get into a situation at all where they can be approved for a loan. It is therefore in relation to the credit rating that we believe that the door should be kicked in, and then, of course, we must do so in relation to the regulatory framework that already exists on the market, as it is today. We must have our 48-hour report time, time of regret, working according to what was the intention of the law when we chose to implement it many years ago. We believe that this can happen if, for example, you get Finance Denmark to be a little more positive about getting credit ratings to improve. They have, of course, been a little protectionist towards other players in the market. If you want to do better for consumers, I would at least recommend that Finans Danmark start opening up a little to the approach to letting the whole market in and helping to give it a really good rating. We also know, and we have noted, that the government has set up a working group following this consumer policy initiative that the government has made, and we would very much like to discuss a number of improvements, but we will not support a resolution such as this one, which is more or less composed for today's occasion, because elections are about to take place, but also because it contains too many other unconcrete things that we cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103436	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103439	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is no surprise to me that the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party rapporteur have this position, because we have had a lot of opportunities to discuss it, but it remains a mystery to me that a party like the Danish People's Party, which one would think would also care for those who find it difficult to see through these loans. There are incredible many stories about mentally ill and ptsd-sick people, etc., who are being chased by these quick loan companies, are so much opposed to doing anything. To the rapporteur's specific question about why nothing was done about it earlier: In 2015, the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency presented a report on what had happened in the Quick Loan Market between 2010 and 2014, i.e. in just 4 years. And what they came up with was that there has been a tenfold increase in the number of quick loans. That report came in 2015. That was where many of us realized: Wow, this market is completely exploded and out of control! It was 2015. That's why we've taken up this case every year. We would very much like to have the help of the Danish People's Party, but it is a little difficult when the Danish People's Party neither makes motions for resolutions nor takes part in any of the proposals we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103606	Yes, but I think it's fine that Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen asks about these things, but I just think that the arrow points a little to the SF itself. Two out of the six ministers who have been since 2011 come from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's own party. It was sir. Ole Sohn, and it was Mrs Annette Vilhelmsen who was the business ministers. What did they do about it? Nothing. Nothing. Then it may well be that a few years have passed now and that more people have got into a mess, but that is a sign that it is not something that has been very high on the SF's political agenda. In fact, I think we are taking on quite a heavy responsibility by saying: we want to force Finance Denmark to open the doors more to get a better and more meticulous rating of the individual consumer to ensure that people do not get into taking loans that they cannot pay back. We would also like to help ensure that the usurer's paragraph, which apparently does not work as it is today, is changed. When judges can find that interest rates of seven hundred and thirty percent are legal, these are indications that you do not know what usury is, and that is why, of course, we need to change the legislation. So I certainly think that we have taken on the responsibility of providing useful solutions for the benefit of consumers as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103725	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103727	In fact, I think it sounds good that the Danish People's Party wants to participate now. I was just confused, because there have been no proposals on this, nor have any of the proposals that have been made. And that's why it's hard to know it's something DF cares about. Then I have to point out again that when it was not a special area of action for the previous government, it was because this report came out in 2015. And it could be seen that in four years alone there had been a tenfold increase in the value of quick It was simply in the four years that the market had almost exploded, as the report showed. I don't know if it had anything to do with the financial crisis or whatever it was. But that report didn't come until 2015, and it's a little hard to act before you know the extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103818	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103819	I think it's a little too searched. So, excuse me, also before we got a SF minister in the field, there were quick loans in Denmark • massive quick loans, lots of credit cards with dishonest fees. I do not need to name them, because the rapporteur himself knows what we are talking about. There have been a lot of examples that people have been given credit cards and credit cards and everything else and have been able to buy on a block in Danish shops, store chains, food houses, and I don't know what. It is nothing new; so there was when the SF sat on the ministerial taboo. So I think it's a little too sought out. Then the rapporteur says that now the Danish People's Party will join. No, in all the debates we have had in the past, I have said that I want us to go in and look at the legislation on usury, and if the legislation does not work as it should, then it must be tightened. I have said that the reflection times must be guaranteed in relation to the legislation that we have implemented several years ago. And then, of course, we need to focus on credit ratings so that people do not get loans that they are unable to pay back.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103927	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412103931	Thank you. I am actually a little surprised that DF's rapporteur is so reluctant to take action on this particular issue of advertising. Of course, it is true that some of it comes from abroad, but it doesn't. I mean, you can, for example. Don't do anything about the commercials that are on the buses? Can't prevent Danish television stations from having this kind of advertising ahead, during and after football matches, for example.? Can the rapporteur not see that there are some areas where we can do something on Danish soil ourselves to get these advertisements out of public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104013	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104015	Yes, we can, but well, the mission fails, Mrs. Karin Gaardsted. Well, it's nice to make some legal regulations that work against Danish media, but what good is it if more and more of the media used in Denmark come from foreign broadcasting permits? Well, at least you've been victorious somewhere. Because it is of no use to consumers. They still get their news in through their iPads and their iPhones, Google and websites from other countries etc. and news portals free of charge in other countries. There these advertisements will come, and we see that with such things as Unibet and others who are broadcasting from, I think it is Malta and elsewhere. After all, they will be able to continue to do so freely and without hindrance. Then there is no point in presenting this kind of copy-medicine as proposed by the Social Democratic Party. There I think one has to look at what the law in Denmark is, how we can make usury legislation better in order to provide better consumer protection, and how we can improve credit ratings by providing better guidelines for Finance Denmark's customers. And Finance Denmark must then also open their register access to the smaller companies that are not members of Finance Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104130	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104132	Of course, I agree with the rapporteur on these last points, and these are also some of the things that need to be done so that we can get this industry straightened out. I mean, you can do something about the commercials. However, I would like to return to what the rapporteur says about credit rating being the most important thing. Then I would like to know whether DF could thus go in to support a national register, which is obliged to report on a daily basis to all consumers' loans, so that other loan providers can see how many and how much consumer loans a citizen has, so that they do not lend to those who already have a lot of loans.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104213	How the register is to be organised must be based on closer dialogue, but we have always been open to some form of coercion in relation to the cooperation that must be between all credit providers in Denmark. And that means that we need Finance Denmark and their many large, heavy members to also accept that all types of these loans should be eligible for this. And that means that now the industry has moved by saying that now they just want this 50% ceiling. on interest rates, which is, of course, nice and fine, but that does not change the fact that the credit rating will not improve qualitatively. That is why we want to impose this on the industry, and so we need a political massage to get it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104253	Thank you. Then there are no further comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104309	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for once again having an eye on these problems with quick loans. I am not going to prolong the discussion during the speech by the previous rapporteur, but I can say that I share Mr Beazley's view. Hans Kristian Skibby's amazement that former ministers have not seen this. But are we not to be pleased that the present government and the current minister are aware of this and have set up this particular working group to decide how we might regulate these very complex issues? I do not think anyone in this Chamber is particularly in favour of quick loans. At least no one goes home and recommends his family or his children to take out quick loans. No one has been happier by quick loans, but we still have to say that they are now being taken up. Who's recording them? Yes, it is of course people who cannot borrow on the natural market and cannot go to the bank and get a loan, but who still need money, perhaps because of consumption, perhaps due to other unfortunate practices. As I said, they cannot go to the bank and credit unions can also be excluded, so what are the alternatives? Yes, it is probably the quick loan market or a market that is even more grey and dull than the quick loan market, and that does not say very little. For there is therefore a market that is unregulated, I should like to say, and that is what is run by gangs and the like, and we must therefore ensure that people are kept away from it as far as possible. And that, of course, is something that has to be included in this group's assessments, in other words how it happens. I am certainly in favour of a regulated market. I think it was an American gangster who was asked in a television programme whether it was really true that he was a member of organized crime, to which he replied: what do you think is most recommendable: organized crime or unorganized crime? Of course, that can be difficult to answer. In this case, then, we have a market which, after all, is organized and organized through the Folketing. And that is what we must at least ensure that people do not get away from, so that they end up in an even worse market. We have the opportunity to manage the organised market here from Christiansborg to a certain extent. We have done so, among other things. The 48-hour report period. We have recently agreed that the FSA should have insight into these quick loan providers and, as I said earlier, the Minister has set up a working group for consumer protection in this area. And unfortunately, it is necessary to get smarter heads than ours to look at it, because it is a very, very complicated affair with a whole lot of different elements. But if I am going to look at the SF's proposal, I have to say that it is not that far away from what I personally mean. The proposal involves greater transparency. I think, then, that we have reasonable transparency today. That means banning advertising. I can easily follow that we have a large number of advertisements which are banned, and this could easily go on, even if Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby says that there is a problem with the advertisements coming from abroad. That is indeed something that a committee can look at. That redemptions are complicated I don't doubt it, it's certainly right I'm absolutely shocked that should be the case. So at least there's something that needs to be looked at. Compared to that with an interest rate ceiling, we just have to be sure that whoever can't borrow on this market because of that interest rate ceiling isn't being pushed over to Hell's Angels or anyone else. Having said that, however, I must say that the Østre Landsret ruling, which lies and which I have had the opportunity to read, says that there is no basis for reducing costs at the level we have just been documented here today, according to Section 22 of the Credit Agreement Act on unfair remuneration. And I have to say that I am actually a little puzzled about that too. But it's there, and you might as well remember to read it all. I think it was a loan of 31⁄2 months to 18%. at monthly interest rates and at 37 per cent. in interest on late payments. I think it sounds crazy. I am surprised at the amount of interest, and I understand that the rapporteur is using this as a basis. So there is enough to look at during the debate and there is also enough to look at for the relevant committee. I recommend that we wait for the comments of the committee and that it is special experts who will look at it and see what they will achieve. On this basis, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104825	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104827	Thank you. Apart from the fact that, of course, I am disappointed that the Left does not support the proposal, it is not surprising that I should like to thank you for those comments. It sounds like we're not really that far apart. Now it's just time for something to happen, too, for sir. Preben Bang Henriksen also knows that this is something we have been discussing for many years. We were actually trying to solve a chunk of it with the 48-hour rule, which then gets bypassed. When Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen then asks why we didn't do anything 6-7 years ago, I just have to say again that there was this report from 2015, where the Competition and Consumer Authority so much mapped the area and said: There has been a tenfold increase; the market has exploded alone from 2010 to 2014. There is no proper competition; it is very, very difficult to take action against unfair loan conditions etc. It is quite a few times that we see judgments in this area; most recently, it was as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned Østre Landsret's ruling, which also got Finance Denmark out of the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104937	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412104939	Thank you. It's probably gonna be a long Friday, and I can tell you again what Mr. His Kristian Skibby has the answer. My answer to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is completely identical. It is true that there was a report in 2015 that is the one the verdict refers to but you must have walked around the Ministry of Business with blinders on if you were not aware that the problem also existed before that report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105000	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105002	Of course it existed before, but I just want to read the numbers. In 2010, 20,000 quick loans were set up. 4 years later, in 2014, 136,000 quick loans were made for 37 million respectively. kr. and 436 million. kr. The rapporteur must also take the view that in four years it is a fairly strong growth. Instead of asking why nothing was done earlier, let us agree that we will do something now. Does the rapporteur also know when this working party will present its conclusions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105040	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105041	No. The last thing the Minister of Business will have to answer. And to the penultimate point that we must do something now: I do not want to take the time to deal with who did not do what; I just want to conclude that something is obviously happening now, and if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and I are re-elected, we can at least jointly ensure that this is put on the agenda at another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105103	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105105	Thank you. It's kind of fun to sit and listen to. It is as if the members of the governing parties have been instructed to start scolding the opposition every time they open their mouths. I would say that we are being kissed for not having fixed anything 6-8 years ago. Now the government has had almost four years to rectify, and it is only now that the Minister for Business comes forward with proposals. He must then be commended for doing so, but the rapporteur sounds quite reasonable in the end, and I am very pleased about that. The rapporteur refers to this by saying that we must avoid the gangs, and of course I fully agree with that. There is just one area that we have not had up today and that I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he would also like to take part in the further work. It's a facebook loan, because if there's anything that's unregulated, it's a facebook loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105205	Yeah. At the end of the day, I can say that this is certainly something we should be looking at, and I certainly expect the working party mentioned above to have it with us, because that is a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105215	Thank you, then there are no more questions for the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105236	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you to the SF for showing a stubborn persistence on this issue that we have dealt with earlier in this period and where we have heard a little the same tones from many of the rapporteurs. It was agreed that there were some problems, but unfortunately the will to do something about it has not entirely matched the rapporteurs' recognition. For this is a very serious problem, and for every day we wait to do something about it, there are unhappy people being spun into this web by one loan that replaces the other, with very high interest rates and penalty rates that are devastating to many people. After all, it is a business model that attracts too much vulnerable people and speculates about their inability to pay. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said that 30%. of what these companies are earning, that is to say they come from defaulted loans. That's a very significant part of this business model. It is also an unpleasant business model because it hits class-flash. Well, it's not wealthy people north of Copenhagen who take these loans. They go down to an ordinary bank and get a loan, or they borrow from their parents or others. They are poor people, they are vulnerable people, they are people with low incomes, they are pensioners and they are unemployed. These are people who may be affected by the cuts in benefits that this government has unfortunately made, people who cannot pay their bills, who cannot pay the rent and therefore have to throw themselves into the arms of these dubious consumer credit companies. So it's not just a question of an unpleasant business practice. It is also a class issue in which some are affected and others are not. And it's moving fast right now. New offers and new products are constantly coming. The consumer ombudsman visited the Business Committee some time ago and had some frightening examples of how people, among other things, when advertising the purchase of a burger on the Internet, can take a loan at the same time to pay for it, i.e. simply to mix ordinary advertisements for products with advertisements for these quick loans. And we've heard these crazy stories about the annual cost of 760%, which is then legal. It is a problem that has not been dealt with, and unfortunately this shows that changing governments have been more concerned with giving banks good conditions than with protecting citizens, and especially those citizens who do not have very much money. Unfortunately, the Minister is right that we will not be able to legislate until after an election. Unfortunately, there has been far too slow, and it is a little thought-provoking that a working group has been set up which first delivers its work on the other side of a parliamentary election. Then, like that, that problem has been passed on to a future government. But that also means that a new majority must show a completely different spirit of action, even in the autumn, for example. the financial law negotiations. I hope that a social democratic government will keep its word and will do something about this and do something quickly. And otherwise I have no doubt that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, together with my colleagues, will see to it that this is carried out. So let us not hope that this is the last time we have to deal with a motion for a resolution by the SF on this issue in this Chamber, because within the first six months of this year a future government has shut down these business practices with start-ups per year. January 1, 2020? I think that would be a very good ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105651	Thank you. There are no comments, so that is why it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412105705	Thank you. The proposal here is, of course, to tighten up the rules on quick loans, and there can be very good sense in that. That is why we have also done so now that we move supervision over to the FSA, so that there will be the same strict supervision of quick loans as there are with all banks, so that all providers of loans are subject to the same supervision. Then we are talking about greater transparency. Yes, of course there must be. Of course, anyone who takes a loan needs to know what this loan costs, what the cost is, what the consequences are of it. In this context, however, I would say that as a percentage, there is no very good indicator. If you take the example of borrowing 10 kroner. today and you pay 11 kroner. I'll be back tomorrow and you'll have to pay 1 kroner. in costs equivalent to 10%; But if you rewrite it up, it's going to be 128 billion percent, because it's always going to be calculated on an annual basis. Therefore, as a percentage of the population, the indicator is not very good. But it is clear that there must be transparency and you must know what you are paying for it. There are already demands for this today, and if those demands are not good enough or are being complied with well enough, the working group must clearly focus on it, and then we must include their recommendations in the further work. It is also pointed out in the proposal that you cannot be allowed to pay back. Of course you have to be able to. One must then be able to pay off one's loan. It is clear that if there are any problems in it and in the legislation that exists today and the way it is practiced today, then I would very much expect that the working group will focus on it, and then we will have to take it up when it comes with its reporting. Then there is talk of a national register. I have to say that I and the Liberal Alliance are not particularly hooked by the fact that a national register is being created, which reports on a daily basis, or at least often, the private economy of citizens. This is absolutely not something that I think sounds very nice. But instead of going in and detailing in this way, as you really want, I think you should look at the rules that exist on credit ratings. Do they work well, or do they need to be tightened up? And there I must also rely on the working group to have a good focus on it, because we should not go in and prevent citizens who need loans and who can actually pay back and who have a real repayment option from coming in and getting a loan. I do not think that is very appropriate either. So with those words, I would say that the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal, but that there are many good intentions in it. Some of this is already under way, and the rest I hope the working group will look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110048	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110051	Thank you. Apart from the fact that the Liberal Alliance will not support the proposal, it actually sounds as if we are in agreement a long way along the way, and I am pleased about that. I have had the same considerations about a register. I believe, in fact, that I and the rapporteur are in the same place, namely that we must so protect sensitive information about citizens. So it has to be arranged in a way so you can't just go in there and see what Jens Hansen owes to another quick loan company. But just as we also have a gambling register, you can also get there without it having to be disclosed what you specifically owe or that everyone can go in and look at your economy. So I fully agree with the rapporteur's view that it must be done in a very, very proper way if we are to introduce such a thing, completely agree. I also think that, although we in the SF and the Liberal Alliance may often disagree, there are some surfaces where we agree, namely that this industry is characterised by poor competition • The Danish Competition Authority has reported this in 2015 and also by the fact that you can have business model, where 30%. of earnings are based on bad payers. I also hear that the rapporteur agrees that it is simply not a proper business model to have such a large proportion of earnings that come specifically from bad payers. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110222	I do not remember saying those words at all, but it is clear that there must be reasonableness in it, and we must then look into whether a business model is being created which is unbearable. But what I would also like to see is a balance in which people say that people themselves also have a responsibility. I mean, you have to assess your own situation. It is of no use that the state should always go in and say: No, look here, little friend, you won't do that anyway; you may think you will, but you won't, and this isn't good for you. In other words, there must be a balance between doing an unbearable business and then respecting people's free choice and personal responsibility. And that balance may seem to me to tip over from time to time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110313	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110319	Thank you. Well, I actually agree with that a long way along the way. However, I just think it is remarkable that we have a ceiling on interchange fees, but that we do not want a ceiling on op or what a loan may cost to citizens. So you want to regulate what you think is reasonable when it comes to the banks. I asked former Minister for Industry, Brian Mikkelsen, if he would abolish the interchange fees, and he would not. I just think that when we have an usury clause in the criminal code, which is clearly completely useless, we should at least be honest about whether we even think that something is unbearable. For the ruling of the Østre Landsret showed that, in these specific areas, agreements of this kind could not be reached with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110415	Now, in fact, two seconds ago, almost, I have been told that the verdict has been appealed, so that is another thing. There may be a new situation and a new decision on it. We don't know that yet. But in fact the verdict has been appealed. But of course we have some guidelines. We have some rules, we have some legislation on usury interest rates, and it must, of course, be observed. What we are doing now is moving quick loan providers under the supervision of the FSA, so that all loan providers are under the same supervision, and that also means that they will have the same tough rules and the same supervision to be subject to. For, of course, we must respect those things and, of course, we must look at what weed interest rates are. We're gonna have to get rid of that if that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110508	Thank you. Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110510	Thank you. Mrs May-Britt Kattrup says that LA is not in favour of a national register because you should not be able to see information about citizens. Of course, I fully agree with that. I do not think anyone in this Chamber thinks that everyone should be able to go in and see what people's private economy is like. So we're not talking about open access. However, I would like to hear how the Liberal Alliance imagines that a quick loan provider will not be able to give a quick loan to someone who already has several consumer loans. How will we avoid this if we do not have a register to which we are forced to report, so that consumer credit providers can see what has already been lent out to a particular person?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110604	After all, there is already a requirement for the customer to be rated. A quick loan provider must do so too, and now there will be even stricter supervision in this area. Because it is clear that you have to go in and assess, and that is where those things will come in. It will be included in the same total credit rating of the customer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110626	Here you go, Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110627	But I don't understand that at all. I fully agree that the credit rating is the basis for this, but how can a credit rating include knowledge of other loans when it is the case that a quick loan provider cannot see that it already has a number of consumer loans? I simply do not understand that. Can the rapporteur explain this a little further?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110650	In fact, I do not have detailed knowledge of that, and we must then again rely on the group that is working on it and ask them to focus on those things and to listen to whether there is a problem here. And if there is a problem here, of course we must see what we have to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110709	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412110715	In the alternative, we think that the SF has made a very good presentation, not to ban quick loans, but to improve loan possibilities in general. Whether it's called quick loans or just loan options, we don't take it very carefully, because it's fine that a good and broad and nuanced picture of the loan options for all Danes is given. And so there are some who cannot borrow on the normal roads, which is why it is good that there is the possibility through other types such as quick loans. However, all four points put forward by the SF rapporteur, Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and the SF, are in complete agreement in the alternative that we should discuss; in fact, we will also go so far as to say yes to the resolution itself, because it is precisely so nuanced that no precise figures are required anywhere, as I recall. But I also understand the Minister, who is not now and here, when a group has been set up, just before a parliamentary election goes in and says yes to this............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But I also hope, on the other hand, that the much, I would almost say binding and at least understandable, speech by the Minister about the needs that may be on the market, not in relation to all parts of the proposal, but to large parts of it, means that we will see that action is being taken on it, regardless of which government is coming. I should also like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they too are in favour of the proposal. So I would just like to use my last speaking time to try to nuance the debate a little bit, because why is it that right now it is an extra big problem with quick loans? We heard some figures that have escalated violently since 2010 onwards. This has something to do with the new business models that we know across all sorts of industries, which are being lifted up by the digital world too right now. Well, quick loans are something easier to get to grow and get many more users of when you have the digital opportunities that are today, compared to what was 7 years ago. In the same way with the game market, where there are many more that are on online games today than went down and submitted a tips coupon when I was little. I think we should have the moral and ethical consideration there, and I think we should think very carefully about this, and I hope that we in the committee will do so too, because the moment we turn people into things and remove the humane understanding of who it really is we are talking to and who it is we are offering goods to, we will have a slip, and that is what I see on the Quick Loan market. Here you simply allow yourself to make business models, and that is not just something you can be surprised about today or think about whether it is really right, because that has been the case for many, many years, not for the benefit of the citizens, but for the benefit of the company itself. And there is basically nothing wrong with such business, but there can be something morally and ethically reprehensible in it. In this market there are at least huge, huge problems, because one simply allows oneself to look at some of the consumers, in other words some of those who need these loans, for which some people do not need to have a human empathy, but as some people think of a chain of values that makes one end up with a big return in the company and completely indifferent to the fact that one also ends up with these people living in poverty afterwards. They may already be, but the loans are getting them even deeper into poverty. That's how a lot of business models work. That is why it is important for us to set legal limits so that this cannot be done and so that we can be a loan provider, including quick loans, while at the same time walking around the street and knowing that people think that you are a decent and decent person because you are actually doing a good business. There is no contradiction between being a good trader and having a quick loan business, but there may well be many cases where there is a contradiction. It is our job to ensure that there will be a market that is as sensible and properly organised as the SF also lays down here, so you have some loan models that are not inhumane because there are many of them today. A final note to the digital here: In other words, when we celebrate, also in entrepreneurship, business models that can be scaled very, very quickly, and want to promote growth companies, we should think that we also allow many of the growth companies to actually have a business model that far along the way is not as highly critical as we stand and talk about here, but in their entire construction we speculate about having as many people as possible who sign up for something that is not a real product, but a product that is very, very easy to scale in relation to having many users, and where people often turn into things and just become a small piece in a big game, where a company should maximize its earnings by some people's services, information, data, or whatever. Here it is their immediate need to put out a fire that they may have in their private economy. So I think it's very, very important that we stop each other from dealing with this problem. And last but not least, I simply cannot understand that you can be allowed to advertise quick loans in connection with various TV ads for games and sports events, so that, while you are watching TV, you can borrow for one thing or another, and where there are odds 10 on some player right next door. There are no good arguments for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412111227	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412111235	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and SF for raising this debate again. This is an important and relevant debate, and I also think that today's debate shows that it is important that we discuss this again. After all, this resolution is about how to create an optimal framework in the credit market for quick loans, and the SF has in the motion for a resolution some concrete proposals, among others. to create greater transparency for consumers, to tighten up the rules on advertising, to set a ceiling on interest rates and charges, and also to set a ceiling on the number of quick loans and the total amount of debt that can be taken up. I would say that we in the Conservative People's Party are very much in agreement with the intentions of the resolution. We also think that there is a need to look at the quick-loan market, because we must have better transparency for the consumer, but also better protection for the consumer. We must ensure that we protect the weak party so that no one is exploited. We have seen in particular with the judgment that has now come in relation to the usurer's clause that there are some challenges with how the usurer's provision works today, but also with how we protect consumers in relation to these quick loans. That is why I do not wish to reject in advance any of the proposals that are being put forward, but I think it is important that we get the right solution from the start. We have had this example in the past when we introduced a 48-hour report time, which proved to be very, very effective, because it shut down a product completely, but then just opened a new product. And in order not to end up in that situation again, I think it is very important that we have a look at this overall assessment, which a working group will be submitting a debriefing on very soon. Therefore, our position is that we are following that trail and awaiting this overall reporting so that we get a look at the whole area at once. So we're not going to lay down any of these individual elements in advance until we've seen the total reporting. So, although we fully agree that this is something that needs to be looked at and that we also agree with the intentions and that we do not want to reject any of these proposals in advance either, we will not support the resolution here and now, because we will have an overall assessment from the working group before we determine what is right to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412111506	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so now it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412111520	I'd like to read two stories. The first one is from Tina who wrote to me. She's the mother of Emil, 29 years old and Afghanistan veteran. He is on sick leave and on treatment at the Veteran Center for Ptsd. Tina writes that he has a quick loan debt of approx. $275,000. The main chair was originally approx. 60,000 kroner, but interest rates grew gradually. When he finally asked me for help, she writes, he had to get 9,000 kroner. a month alone at interest rates without having a job because of its ptsd. We have really tried to make it clear that he does not want to be contacted, but it is impossible to stop the inquiries. I'm so angry, I can barely be in my own body. Tina writes that. Then I received another request from Poul, where the names are anonymized for the sake of the family: My 20-year-old son Jens is mentally ill and therefore easy to lure. He's made several quick loans. Quick loans typically have a peak of approx. 700 per cent. Although we have tried to explain to Jens what an op is, I do not think he quite understands it, and it is my feeling that there are many others, especially young people, who do not understand it either. Jens still lives away at home, he has regular shifts at his job every three weekends, but he's been working a lot extra lately. Nevertheless, I do not understand how the lenders can find him creditworthy. When we found out that he had taken loans, we rushed to pay them back, because otherwise they would just grow and grow. The result of this is that more tempting offers are now ticking into his phone. We address ourselves politely to those who send the tempting offers and ask them not to, but I do not think our appeal is enough. As recently as yesterday it was so the day before yesterday another personal message came by text to Jens from vivus.dk that he could borrow DKK 12,000, despite the fact that we had spoken to them last week and explained the situation to them. I really want to encourage you to look at these quick loans. It must be a task for society to protect weak souls from something as absurd as a loan with an up of 700 per cent. Thank you in advance, Your Honour, Poul. It was just two stories. I get a lot of e-mails about this, and you can say that the most absurd thing is when you're dealing with people who have ptsd, who are mentally ill, and there's a lot of stories about them. But this resolution is really about saying broadly: what do we really think is a proper way of making money in this country? That does not mean that there can be no consumer credit. It just means that we take it seriously that in our criminal law we actually have a usurer's clause, which we can all see, however, is completely useless. And, as has been mentioned several times, a recent judgment was passed in the Østre Landsret, which said that with the legislation we have today, it is not unreasonable to have a peak of 760 per cent. I would like to thank the parties, which I think were very much in favour of. There were several who asked why nothing has been done about it in the past. I do not think that is any reason not to do anything about it now, but I would just like to point out once again that this rather landmark report by the Competition and Consumer Authority came in 2015 and showed a completely crazy development in the number of quick loans, both in volume, in number and in the debt that you could see. The Competition and Consumer Protection Authority also stated that competition in the market is really, really bad and therefore consumers do not get the best and cheapest products and also stated that it is simply an integral part of the business model to go after bad payers, because 30%. the revenue comes from interest on late payments, interest on penalties, deferral fees and other charges. The DF's rapporteur asked a little rhetorical how we can improve the usury legislation, and I think we actually agree with that. It was also an integral part of the proposal made by the SF in December 2017 and which we discussed here in the Danish Parliament a year ago, precisely to say that if we have a usurer's clause, it must also be useful for something. Now I did not just ask the Minister for Industry earlier when this work is expected to be completed. It is perhaps a little optimistic to think that it will be completed before a parliamentary election, but whatever the outcome of the parliamentary election, I hope that the work will not then disappear somewhere dark, but that it will be based on it, no matter who the next minister in the post may be. I think it is a scandal that in a country like Denmark we have this completely unregulated market, where one can apparently just behave completely immoral, send text messages away to the mentally ill when their relatives call and ask them to leave them alone, and so we have to deal with this. After all, we are not a banana republic and there are, after all, a large number of European countries which have both anop ceilings and stricter legislation in relation to marketing and advertising, etc. That is why I am leaving a little more optimistic today, following the comments made by the party rapporteurs, and I hope that we will be able to do a whole piece of work before long.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112102	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112106	Well, I just want to sign for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's excellent speech here and especially the two examples. This is the kind of thing that gives us better insight into the real world. And I have to say that I just want to make sure that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen passes those examples on to the committee. These are excellent examples of how this is apparently slipping away completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112133	Thank you very much. I will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112136	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112150	The debate is open. And that's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112211	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist People's Party. And that is also a classic socialist policy, it must be said. We need employees to own the companies so that the means of production get away from the capitalists and into the hands of the people. It is very classic left-wing policy and it is not immediately something the government can support. I would like to explain this not only for purely ideological reasons, but also for a number of other reasons. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to present a proposal on how employee-owned companies can be promoted through various actions such as: legislation on a special form of company for employee-owned companies and a clear description of employees' rights and wishes for improved access to capital. It is important for the government to create good opportunities to increase productivity in Danish companies and also open to more people to invest capital in companies. In general, we think this is a good idea. We also think it is good if employees do that. We agree that this can be a good way to raise capital, and it can also be a good way to create commitment, qualified labour and motivation. And thus you can also increase productivity in a company. Co-ownership is healthy. However, the Government does not agree that there is a need to promote employee-owned companies by legislating on a particular form of company, primarily because it is already possible to create employee-owned companies. Employees can be offered employee shares or share options through employee stock schemes, and thus they can gain influence in the company in which they are employed. Moreover, they are at all times free to join forces and invest in shares in the company in which they may work. Employee stock schemes can be established as both general and individual schemes, and tailor-made schemes can be made for individual key employees in order to maintain or attract qualified labour and general schemes for all employees, depending on the needs of a company. With an employee share scheme, employees' personal and financial interests in the company can be increased. The scheme allows for a flexible and attractive composition of employees' salaries so that they can both receive their regular pay and receive employee shares in addition, so that it can also represent a significant part of employees' remuneration. The scheme therefore benefits not only the companies and their employees, but also, in our opinion, has a positive effect on Danish business and on the competitiveness of Danish companies. Employees who own shares in the company in which they are employed have precisely the well-defined rights, through the provisions of company law, which are demanded by the proposers. So if you have shares in a company, you are a co-owner, but you still have employees' rights. And that is what is being asked for here in the motion for a resolution. Then I would also like to mention that in 2014 as an experimental scheme, the possibility was actually introduced to set up a so-called employee investment company. In 2018, the Danish Parliament adopted a bill which made that scheme permanent. So we actually have a corporate form called employee investment company. It is just not a company type which is quite widespread; as far as I know, only one company is organized in this way, namely a slaughterhouse where employees have put part of their salary into the company to make it survive. There has been no great demand in others for this form of company, and this suggests that there should not be such a huge desire to have such forms of company. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. We believe, as I said, firstly, that there are already opportunities to create employee-owned companies. Secondly, given the limited interest in the form of employee investment companies, it is not our assessment that there is a need to develop new forms of company in order to promote employee-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112649	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112653	Now the Minister of Industry says this is such a typical left-wing proposal, but I think the Left Party might be a little sad, because if you look at the history of cooperative ownership, I would say that the Left Party, the Danish Liberal Party, has a share in it, if you may say so. After all, it was the farmers who said: we will not be exploited, we will go together in dairies, in farmhouses in utility associations later on also because we want to own this together, so that we can get some decent prices for our products and at the same time also keep the prices of groceries down. I just wanted to mention this so that the Left Party should not feel put in the booth with a socialist party, because historically there has been quite broad support for this kind of ownership. We see it from insurance companies and pension companies to our retail stores and so on. The minister says there has been little interest in this ms construction, i.e. employee investment companies, and I understand that, because it is not a very good construction. It does not give very many rights to those who risk their wages. That was actually mostly a comment to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112823	I guess it's not right to say that the Left has a share in the cooperative movement. It is more correct to say that they have a share in the or a large share in the course of course, and we also think on the right that the initiatives taken there have been excellent. I also fully support the fact that employees want to be co-owners of companies. It's healthy, it gives motivation, and then you feel like you're working a little bit for yourself. And if things go well for the company, you get a share in that success too. So there are many good things to say about the ownership of both dairies and other companies, which are not the fault of the Left. We fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112917	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412112918	It is just to return to the fact that this proposed form of company has nothing to do with the existing ms, which we do not think gives the rights that need to be given. However, there is a demand for a form of company where employees can own their own business. Now there are many companies facing generational change, and there you can choose to generational change with your own children, but it may also be that you think it is actually a better idea for employees to take it over. And there has just been a demand in many places where it is said that there is simply a lack of a form of company which also provides some employees' rights and security in that at the same time you are the owner of the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113008	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113010	I have not seen this demand, I must say. I have not been stormed with requests from people who have wanted a new form of company. In general terms, it would seem to me that you cannot both have employees' rights and be the owner of a company, because from whom do you have rights? If you're the owner yourself, who do you have the employees' rights from? Well, there's something there, I find it hard to see that you can be both the employee and the owner of a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113045	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113049	I agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen that this interpretation of the fact that spreading employee ownership is some socialist idea alone is probably a wrong one. If you look at both Britain and the United States, it has in fact been very much conservative parties that have supported this kind of private ownership, because it is. It is just employees who are private owners of their business. It is not state ownership that we are talking about because socialism necessarily is. Oh. What we can see from a number of other countries is that it is actually helpful that there are specific, targeted forms of company. In the United Kingdom, you have it in Norway, you have it in Spain and France, and you have it in Canada. It gives you an idea of this type of business. We also have forms of this type of company in Denmark, for example. in our a.m.b.a. or f.m.b.a., and they are indeed characterized by what is the basic principle of democratic companies, namely that they operate according to the principle of popularity: a person, a voice instead of a crown, a voice that we know from, for example, a voice. equity and equity companies. That is what characterizes democratic companies, across whether they are owned by consumers, as we know from Coop and the mutual insurance companies. Does the Minister consider that it might be appropriate to look at whether a similar form of company was needed in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113214	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113215	I accept the teaching of what is the right socialism from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. I think he's just the right person to lecture me about that, so I accept that. I think it is very reasonable that the people who have put the most money into a company should also be the people who have the most to say in relation to that company's assets. In our popular rule it is a very good principle with a head, a voice and that it is not the money that decides how much you have to say, for example. in a parliamentary election or elsewhere, but I think, in relation to companies, that it is very fair that it is they who bear the greatest risk and have shot the most money into the company that also decides the most in the company. There it would be a little unreasonable if people could say: I don't have much at stake, but I have to decide as much as you who have bet your entire savings in a company. So I find it a little difficult to see how companies should be democratised in such a way that they should vote for heads rather than for the size of the deposit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113319	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113321	Of course, you have to do that, but I think, for example, that the members of Coop or of the many consumer-owned district heating companies and of the many consumer-owned electricity companies we have in Denmark would disagree with the Minister that it would be a good idea to remove the democratic form of governance that one has in those companies. So, business democracy in Denmark is not a small sector, it is a large sector. We are talking about a significant part of our bnp, a significant part of our jobs. It is very significant, I think, that there is this complete lack of attention to the fact that we have companies in Denmark, even a significant part of our economy, which is not capitalist, which actually works according to the principle of a man, a voice, and we should perhaps start cultivating it a little more at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113400	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113401	It is clear that if you make an association where you have made it clear from the outset that it runs according to the principle that you vote by number of heads instead of by how much money you have shot in, then there is investment based on those terms, and there is of course nothing wrong with it. But there would be something wrong in trying to democratise existing companies, which have emerged from some other conditions, and so suddenly people are depriving themselves of ownership for which they have bought themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113436	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line and to Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113447	Thank you. I speak on behalf of Mr. Thomas Jensen, our business rapporteur, who cannot be here today. The SF has tabled a motion for a resolution requiring the government to present a proposal on how to promote employee-owned companies. A number of different measures are proposed, such as: legislation on a special form of company for employee-owned companies and legislation on employee-owners' rights. With the proposal, SF proposes that you can look in several directions in order to improve the framework conditions for the employee-owned companies. It refers to legislation on a tailored form of company, the MEVs. It is mentioned that employees of MEVs are given employee status rather than self-employed status, and mention is made of measures to strengthen access to capital. Here, for example, there can be: It is interesting that the MEVs are often more productive than other companies. It is mentioned an opportunity to deposit wages into the company, new rules on rights and ownership in connection with entry and withdrawal as an employee of an MEV, that the Growth Fund or a brand new fund should have special opportunities to provide guarantees for loans to MEVs, and finally an opportunity to pay inheritance tax in the form of shares. I mean, that's one way of doing that. linked to the fact that the employees are more involved in the company doing well because they own a stake in the company. Therefore, we are positive that the conditions for employee-owned companies are further examined. We have recently addressed in this Chamber the challenges that unfortunately turned out to be with entrepreneurship companies, which we also launched with the best intentions. We must therefore be very careful that we do not create a new form of company that allows fraud, open gaps in tax legislation or other inappropriate practices. Therefore, we should also examine whether employee-owned companies can be taken into account in other ways where companies are still within the current framework of company construction. For these reasons, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we are in favour of the intention to look at it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113755	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113758	I think it is very good to have positive tones from the Social Democratic Party in this area. After all, there is an increasing interest in democratic ownership, and a think tank has also been established across the whole industry, i.e. both consumer-owned and employee-owned companies. There we have in Denmark historically had a strange division, where we have had the employees-owned companies here and the consumers-owned ones there. had a background in the Left. In other European countries, the whole thing is seen as a democratic sector which is mutually supportive of each other. So it's really positive. I would like to hear: in Sweden, for example. There is a very well-established system of targeted business promotion. If you as an entrepreneur want to start a democratic business, there is simply a place to go where you can get advice. If you agree to such a thing as the Swedish version of company, these forms of company are completely described in line with other types of companies, contrary to what is the case in Denmark. Will the Socialist Group in the European Parliament contribute to a targeted business promotion aimed at democratic companies, i.e. companies based on the principle of one person, one voice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113909	Now we have to stand here and try to answer on behalf of our business rapporteur, but when I say here today that we are prepared for this area to be examined more closely, because there are really good tactics and very good reasons to work with this, then there could be good reason to try to see how our neighbouring countries deal with the way in which these types of companies or types of ownership are handled. Therefore, I do not see that there should be anything wrong with looking at how the Swedes do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113941	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412113943	Something else we can see in other countries where there is much greater growth in democratic companies. It's really a violent development that we see in many European countries in this time... is that this type of business is taken into account through other forms of legislation. Like us, for example. Now we are on the way to adopting some rules for success, that is to say transfer to commercial funds, so you have, for example. in the UK tax credit or actually tax exemption if an employer chooses to sell his companies to a fund or trust, it is said that is owned and controlled by the employees. Is the initiatives that the Socialists might find interesting to look at in a forthcoming period of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114027	These are exciting initiatives, and I think we should look at what the results have been around in the countries with which we are normally comparing ourselves, but this will probably require a new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114040	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114042	Thank you. I also think that these were very positive tones, and I am also pleased that Mrs Karin Gaardsted emphasises that at least among a sample of democratic companies, productivity is very high. And I think it is right, as the rapporteur also says, that it is good that you have an influence on your own work, on the direction of where the company is going, and also that you may want to reinvest more of the profits generated in the company to increase it, as opposed to being paid out to shareholders. This is not to exclude other forms of company, it is simply to say that there seems to be a lack of a form of company which can so much support it here. So it has been noted that the Social Democratic Party does not vote in favour on the grounds that it needs to be examined further, but I hope that we can then draw up a joint report that we are a number of parties who think that it is certainly worth looking into. Is that something that the Socialists want to be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114154	I cannot say, therefore, whether there is a lack of a form of company which can include the companies owned by these employees. We need to examine whether they can be promoted within the legislation that we already have. Whether or not we can draw up a joint report, we will hand over to the business rapporteur, but immediately I would say that yes, I think we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114224	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114226	I'm really glad. I also think that the aim should be that it is how we promote democratic companies and make it easier and more attractive that is the objective. The means of doing so can be clarified in such a work. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114246	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114250	We thank Mrs Karin Gaardsted and move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114300	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign that today we have had the opportunity to discuss employee-owned companies here in the Danish Parliament. The SF has a motion for a resolution calling on the government to present a proposal. In the Danish People's Party we might have thought it would have been fun if the SF had chosen to present its own proposal rather than requiring others to present a proposal. Perhaps it would have been more useful to debate from that point of view. Having said that, I would like to say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that there are already excellent conditions today if you want to involve the employees in the ownership circle of Danish companies. The Minister mentioned this a little in his opening speech, but that is to say, we have the employee stock model; there are many employees who are offered stock options for longer employment relationships; and then we also have these employee investment companies, which, as has been said, there has not been much demand for. But after all, the opportunity has been there and is still gone if you want to establish that kind of employee-owned company. So we really think we have a good opportunity to involve the employees in the ownership circle of Danish companies. This was the debate on what the SF motion for a resolution says. But then I will go into what the whole debate has been about, because it has not been the employees-owned companies. It has been the member-owned companies; it has been cooperative companies; it has been consumer-owned companies; and it has been client-owned companies and it is therefore in our optics something quite, quite different. The examples that have been presented to us are also provided by Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, in a democratic profession, and the fine, excellent report that has come from them, we would like to thank you for today. But perhaps I just think that this is another discussion and that it is perhaps another resolution which I think will also come here later in the season. There will actually be a motion for a resolution on the member-owned or consumer-owned companies, such as GF Insurance, Loan & Spar Bank, Coop, Arla or Danish Crown, which have a different form of ownership. But it does not mean that it is the employees who own it, as this motion for a resolution outlines. But I would like to say that if there are any suggestions that can do better, also to involve the employees in the ownership circle, then the Danish People's Party will look very positively at it. But it is no secret that where we think there might be more reasoning in it is in relation to the consumer-owned, customer-owned or member-owned companies. I think that is where we must put the greatest effort. That is also where we can see, if we look back at the financial crisis, that in fact there were not many of the companies that flew out of Denmark very quickly and sent the jobs out of Denmark and lost in the economic crisis. The democratically owned professions were better able to stay in Denmark, and they were, among other things, because the ownership circle of a democratically owned company does not have the same desire and motivation to draw money out in profit as in ordinary commercial companies. And we also saw that it made those types of companies more robust through the financial crisis, and they also retained very, very many of the jobs that they have and also at the time, in Denmark. So we would like to welcome this and we would also like to participate in political cooperation here in the Danish Parliament to improve the democratic professions and ensure that the consumer-owned, customer-owned or member-owned companies call them what you want to get better conditions in Denmark. I would also like to say, in order to conclude with regard to the motion for a resolution, which contains precisely something about the companies owned by employees, that we do not object to engaging in a political debate on it either. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114733	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114736	I'm really glad to hear that. In a very globalised world, the ownership circle can be anyone and anywhere, can be capital funds and shareholders, etc., and that is exactly where I think, as Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby says that trying to support this form of company is about people who have an interest in keeping their workplace and reinvesting in the company, so that it is viable and so on, also maintains some values in Danish hands, and that is where I think we really have a common interest. When it is formulated in such a way that we require the government to present a proposal on how we can support it here, it is because I often find that if the proposals I am sending out become too specific, then there are some very specific reasons why some parties do not participate in one and the other. That is why we are trying to say that it can be in many ways that it is just the direction we want to take. And, of course, in the comments on the motion for a resolution, we make some suggestions as to how that could be. But it's actually just a comment that I'm happy with DF's announcement, and I also hope we can do a job that reaches for a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114855	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114856	Thank you. Well, I don't think there's anything new in it. I would like to say in connection with the debate that took place on the democratic professions and their analysis, which is of course very extensive and in which we have had time to review these many, many thousands of Danish companies. Many of them are really small companies. I think we should certainly pursue this discussion, and I would just remind you that in the political treatment we have had here today, we have ended up mixing things up a little. For the proposal made by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and the SF does not concern the members or consumers' owners or the client-owned companies, but only that employees should have an interest in the company. So these are slightly two different discussions, but that is to say, the companies operate roughly on the same terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114951	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412114952	Well, that's right. This motion for a resolution is, of course, specific in relation to employee-owned companies, but as I see it, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted said that the unifying term for these democratic companies is precisely the preservation of the values on their own hands and on Danish soil, if I may say so, whether it is the customers, consumers or employees who own the company. So it is actually part of a major debate on democratic ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115020	That is true, but in the Danish People's Party we think, after all, if I am to be quite honest, that it is in principle much more important that we have companies owned by consumers, members or customers who are behind the companies, rather than individual employees in the companies who own them. That's where we think the value added is much greater. That is also what we can see, namely that the types of companies which are members of democratic professions represent a far, far greater proportion than the companies which are owned by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115058	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115100	I must start by saying that it warms my heart to hear the Danish People's Party speak so enthusiastic about consumer ownership and democratic ownership in our economy. It is so important that we begin to re-evaluate or revive an interest in this sector, which has little lived a life of silence. And I would also like once again to sign up for the report we have produced together in the Committee on Finance, where we are precisely fenced in our critical infrastructure and say that it is not going into capital funds. It must be owned either publicly or precisely by the consumer-owned companies. It's not mixing things up when we talk about the employee-owned companies in connection with this, because they share a common principle. And that is why in other countries there is no distinction whatsoever between cooperatives, as we call them here, and cooperatives. It is the same legislation that applies. After all, the principle is one person, one vote. And that's what separates them from the stock programmes that Mr. His Kristian Skibby is talking about, for there is just one crown, one voice. So I think what the SF is asking for is a form of company that ensures the principle of one person, one vote also in employee-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115211	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115213	Yes, but I still think I would like to arrest that premise, because these are two very different things. Whether it is employees who own a company or whether it is consumers, customers, shareholders who own it is not the same thing. And I wouldn't just say that every man should have one vote. I think it is fair if you are a shareholder or a shareholder in, for example. Mr Arla, that as a large dairy producer you also have a larger number of votes than one with only ten dairy cows. Well, I'm not a communist or anything like that, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Pelle Dragsted. I don't just want to buy that definition: every man, one vote or every woman, one vote. I also think we have to say that in these types of companies, where it is the customers, the stakeholders who own the company, they must also be allowed, according to our optics, to have different voting rights in the ownership circle, in the same way as they do in ordinary, traditional companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115317	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115319	Then the temperature fell slightly into the heart, because this is based on a complete misunderstanding of e.g. Arla and Danish Crown's organization. These are a.m.b.a.s. And I would advise the rapporteur to read the legislation on a.m.b.a.It's just that you have the weight of your voice. It is actually the case that the small milk producer has the same voice weight as the big one, and that is what is so great in that tradition. We shall soon have the rapporteur of the Left on the table, who will probably be able to explain it. It is somewhat different in principle from investor-owned companies, too, because there is no contradiction that some people are completely distant from the company that owns it. This is the characteristic of an a.m.b.a., namely that it is the company's own members, it works for non-external investors. And that is what we need to appreciate more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115408	Now I'd like to say to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, that I know very well how the cooperative movement operates. But I answered a question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted, and I perhaps think that is what is the most normal thing in this Parliament, namely to answer questions. And I'm going to tell Mr. Kim... Pelle Dragsted: Our approach to it is not that the partout should be such that each man has one voice, no matter how large a stake he has in a company. That is why it is not the same as saying that it should be blue-stamped. I am just saying that there are different ways of organising ownership, and I would like to say that if, for example, you have a lot of insurance in an insurance company, then I think it is fair that you have a bigger share of the vote than someone who has only one insurance. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115449	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115502	Thank you. Yes, it is nice to be told, at one and a half minutes' notice, that the company structure of cooperatives needs to be clarified. It's gonna be kind of like recording Wagner's Nibelungen's Ring on a single record. I'm gonna have to spare the Danish Parliament to listen to this. On the other hand, I shall not spare the Folketing to hear a proposal on the promotion of employee-owned companies. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen was so enriching to all of us by bringing things under the previous paragraph with a few real examples, and I guess I will have to try to bring reality in here too, because we are talking as though it is always an enrichment to be part of a business. So I just have to say that not all companies make profits and make it a hundred years in the future. That is, of course, what we are laying down here, namely that we should have a share in the surplus. Well, I think I find a lot of companies where the employees would pay for getting shares here a few years ago; it could, for example. be in the financial sector, but it could also be in other companies. During and after the financial crisis there were a great many companies that went down and the employee could use their shares in the stove, so it might have been nice to have the remuneration paid in cash and not in shares. It was just to mess up the good mood a little bit right away. It is not all investment that is successful, but if we assume that this is a case of successful investment, then SF wants a proposal from the government regarding legislation on a particular form of company and a description of employees' rights. Well, I guess I'll have to say that, just like sir. Skibby said before me that it was nice enough just to know what it really was we had to decide on, that is, what the sub-items of a law about this is at least a little easier to get a factual and targeted discussion out of. But I can say that I am aware that we already have plenty of opportunities for employee ownership in companies. There are option schemes, there are other schemes that motivate and sustain employees, and it is well to label schemes that are made between two parties on the basis of voluntaryness. It is certainly an opportunity that we have today and which is also being used. There is nothing in the existing company law to prohibit employees from setting up their own company. There may be competition and customer clauses and the like, but here too there is a time when they can no longer be invoked. So employees can also open their own companies. We have even in 2014, when Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's party was in government, created a special employee investment company scheme. It did not become so popular, and there seems to be only one company involved, namely a slaughterhouse in Bornholm; but the possibilities are certainly with the special tax advantages inherent in the scheme in question. So summa summarum I have to say that already today we have the necessary types of company that are needed if employees want to run a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115822	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115826	Thank you. It is true that it was in 2014 that the MS form was created. SF was not in government at the time, but it was an exciting thought. There was a lot of discussion about how it could be constructed, and then there was also a lot of criticism of the final proposal in order not to necessarily give, what to say, just as many rights to the employees in relation to the risk that is also risking the salary to save the company. But this proposal is precisely to say: in Denmark we do not have so many employees-owned companies. There are very many companies that are facing a generational change. It may be that you do not have children; it may be that the children you have do not want to take over the business or should not take over the business. At Als i Sønderjylland, where I am from, there's a big company that's grown really, really much • LINAK • where these thoughts about what's going to happen in the long term, compared to whether it's the employees who have to take over the company etc., also flourish. I think that's exciting. It's not about forcing any companies to do anything. It is simply in order to create a form of company which can be used to a greater extent because we see some problems with the present forms of company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115949	The rapporteur is in favour of replying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412115950	Thank you. Immediately, I have to say that it is true that SF was not in government in 2014 when the law on employee investment companies was adopted, but it was adopted, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important report which we are discussing today and which we are trying to achieve today, and it has not been used to any great extent. But it is true, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says, that there is a generational problem that is also mentioned. I understand, then, that what is at least reflected in the Social Democratic programme is that the generational problem must be solved by doubling the inheritance tax from the current 15%. 30 per cent. I do not think I would recommend that you go in and support it, because then there will be sales of companies, including abroad, and it may not be for employee-oriented companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120038	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120040	After all, it was the Social Democrats who had to answer it, but I would like to mention that the Social Democrats have also put forward some proposals in relation to handing it over to a fund and so on. I think we should take the debate on how to tax company heirs at another time. But it is true that if there is a desire in the company's ownership that employees should take over the company, and the employees themselves want it, then we can look at what means it takes, because it is also a good way to preserve jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120125	Yes, I would also like to see employee-owned companies, but it must therefore be a voluntary agreement that is being applied. I do not mind that we are creating a structure in a law here that should apply to the construction of the employee-owned companies if it is not already in company law or in other laws today. However, I have to stress that we do not come with the participation of the Left to make legislation here in the Folketing that forces people to hand over their businesses to anyone in particular, whether they are foundations or employees. It has to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120154	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120155	I don't think there are any parties in the Folketing that will propose that either. What we are looking at are many other countries in which tax concessions are made in different ways for a transfer to different democratic companies, such as the United States and Japan. In Britain, moreover, initiated by a conservative government over there. In Denmark we have many consumer-owned companies. We don't have so many employees-owned companies. In other countries, things look different. In Spain, the fourth largest employer is an employee-owned company with 75,000 employees and 200 subsidiaries and operates in 35 countries around the world. In Britain we probably have the pendant for Magasin, John Lewis and Partners, who in turn are employees-owned and controlled, so there are some really good experiences from other countries, and these are the ones we really want to look at here. But I agree that the SF proposal here is a little confusing because you confuse employee shares and employee ownership. The difference between the two is that employee shares are linked to the individual shareholder, and thus it is a typical limited company where in a employee-owned company there will be a real collective ownership of the employees, i.e. the value created in the company will remain there for future generations. So that's what we need to look at in relation to corporate forms, i.e. a little like a.m.b.a. Today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120309	Well, I don't have any comments. If there was a direct question in it, then it has to be formulated, because for this I have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120321	So we say... No, we don't. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120322	In fact, I would just like to hear the rapporteur's final comment on whether we will be open to engaging in some discussions inspired by the laws of other countries, where there are special forms of company which regulate democratic companies to a greater extent than we have in Denmark, where there are different programmes that take account of some of these democratic ownerships, whether that is something that the Left would be interested in with its background, particularly in the cooperative movement and consumer-owned companies, whether it is still something that is close to the heart of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120359	Now I would say that one should be an ugly man if one said that one would not enter into a discussion and a consideration and a study of other matters, but I just have to say, in order not to put any blues in the eye, that we believe that we have the rules that need to be applied today. Anyway, if sir... Pelle Dragsted, who is well inside things, thinks that there are more advantageous things, so please bring them in. They will probably be a little more concrete than the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120427	Thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120431	Thank you very much. The aim of this SF proposal is really fine, namely to promote and create better framework conditions for companies owned by the employees of the company. That intention is good for a number of reasons. It is basically about distributing ownership and thus also power and influence to more citizens. It is good because it creates more democracy. It is clear that when there are more of us who contribute to owning, there are also more of us who are involved in deciding. It creates more economic equality because we share the profits that are created in the company when we own it, and this is important at a time when we see an extreme concentration of ownership, not least in this new digital sector. In fact, it is also the case that democratic companies, including employee-owned companies, turn out to be more efficient and more productive in all research. And that is why, in these years too, we see an enormous rise in other European countries of democratic companies and employee-owned companies. In Sweden, at the end of the survey, some 500 new employees owned companies started up to 1 year in Denmark under 20. This is actually strange, because Denmark is a country with a long tradition of a large degree of common ownership in the economy. We have cooperatives, we have utility associations, we have cooperative funds, savings banks, association-owned mortgages. We are, in fact, a pioneer country when it comes to cooperative principles. And it has always been the answer of ordinary people to injustices. If the profit margin was too high with the intermediaries, if you had to pay too high prices for the goods down at the wholesaler's grocery store, then you made your own utility association etc. It is a very good and healthy and democratic principle. Unfortunately, we have seen for a number of years that it has been in the defensive, in other words, where that form of ownership has been pushed a little in the defensive here in Denmark, unlike in many other countries, and it is time for us to reverse that trend. In relation to the proposal itself, I would like to say that I share the criticism that it is not so precise. It is a little bit on the one hand and on the other hand, and I also think that different things are messed up a little, i.e. employee stock programmes with a definite democratic form of company and so on. Perhaps I also miss the fact that we are dealing a little more specifically with what this form of company should be able to do, such as: et a.m.b.a. or a f.m.b.a. There are some things I could point out, but time does not allow here and perhaps more specific instructions on what is being proposed. For me, for example, it is. It is clear that such a form of company must be based on the cooperative principles of what is known as the ICA, that is, the international cooperative alliance, and that is also what the legislation of a large number of other countries is based on, including for example. there must be open membership for the group to which it relates. It is an important principle that if you enter as an employee, you should have the opportunity to become a member in line with other employees. It is, of course, the principle of one person, one vote and a number of other key principles. There are plenty of experiences from other countries. There are many countries which have a definite form of company for democratic companies. Few people have it for employee-owned companies only. It is usually part of broader legislation that regulates all democratic companies or cooperatives or cooperatives, or what we choose to call them. There are also many examples of how to support it here, both through targeted business promotion, through access to capital, through advantageous tax rules, simply because one values democracy in the economy as something special, just as we in Denmark, for example. values sustainable behaviour in the economy. We will shortly be presenting a fairly comprehensive proposal by Enhedslisten, which comes with a number of concrete proposals on how to improve the framework conditions for democratic companies across a broad spectrum, both those owned by consumers, those owned by employees and others. And against this background, we are very happy that SF is raising this debate so that we can start the debate and try to build a bridge. Because I think it is important that we do not see this as a purely socialist idea. It is clear that having more democracy in the economy also plays well with socialist ideas of shared ownership, but equally it is based on solid traditions that come from the opposite side of the Assembly. These are the traditions on which our free schools, our high schools, our utility societies, our cooperatives and others are based, and therefore we should be able to build bridges and get in touch with other European countries that support and recognise this sector, which one might call the business-democratic sector in the economy, as something special, as something that plays a special and important role, precisely because it counteracts some of the trends that we are all a little concerned about in these years, with very strong concentration of ownership and less influence for ordinary citizens. That is why I think it is so good that we get to grips with this discussion and I am sure that in the next parliamentary term we will be able to take steps on an enlightened basis on how we in Denmark can get together with other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120945	There is a brief comment from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412120948	Thank you. I would like to ask how it can be that Enhedslisten always talks about citizens taking over other people's businesses. If you have citizens who want to start up themselves and be self-employed, why does Mr. Pelle Dragsted didn't see them to start a business themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121011	Well, I don't think I've talked about taking over other people's businesses, on the contrary. I mean, this is very much about the possibility of giving entrepreneurs a good framework for starting up as a democratic business. That is what we see in other countries. It is 500 new companies that have started in Sweden. It is 800 new companies that have started in Belgium and are democratic. Then you can consider whether you want to make it easier, for example. at generational change. In England, for example. If an employer, an entrepreneur, transfers its business to such a trust, which must act on behalf of the employees and share the profits equally and where the employees own at least 51 per cent, i.e. has control, so the seller can avoid paying profit tax. It should be something that the Liberal Alliance could lick on its mouth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121106	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121107	Thank you. But to create better conditions for entrepreneurs would be fantastic, including some of these things, which are also pointed out here, where you would draw attention to generational change. It would also be nice if we could find out together, for example. to abolish inheritance tax, so that such things became easier, and in this way strengthen that one can better create business in Denmark and better run business in Denmark. That would be amazing. But that's not what I'm hearing from Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. What I'm hearing more from, sir. Pelle Dragsted, is that other people must go in and be part of something that has already been created by others. I don't hear sir. Pelle Dragsted talks so much about trying to create it yourself, and about creating better conditions for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121155	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121156	Indeed, I think that the beauty of our tradition of democratic companies is that it is citizens themselves who have come together to create these businesses. It is from the small local barfield district heating plant to our electricity supply, to our utility associations, which are still democratically governed by the principle of one person, one voice, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. So that's what's great about this. And we can see that there is an increasing interest, including among entrepreneurs, in starting something together. And the places and countries that support this practice of targeted business promotion, with targeted tax advantages, are where we can see this lush landscape of new democratic companies emerge, and I think we should look for that in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121237	I'm gonna make sure of Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen wishes to speak. No. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121251	Thank you. I think it is a very good idea for employees to be able to acquire ownership of a company if they so wish and if the existing company owner so wishes. I now believe that many employees are employees precisely because they do not want the responsibility and risk involved in owning or co-ownering a company. And for those who want to be owner or co-owner, there are already plenty of opportunities today. Everyone is free to become an entrepreneur and start as a self-employed person, and the opportunities are available today without the need to create new forms of business. But it's just so much easier to say that you can just start yourself than it actually is to do it because it requires a huge effort, both in terms of time and risk. This requires that you work wildly for many hours for a period of time, and perhaps you have less association with family and friends. As an employee, you can always go home at 8:00. 16.00, but it is not possible to do so if you have a self-employed activity at least not always. And perhaps you have worked so hard for many years, and you have spared all these things, but you have also had an economic risk, and then it is not certain that it will end with success. It may happen, and then you create a lot of jobs for others, which is fantastic. Or maybe you end up in a big debt. So despite the fact that you've done this great job, you're just gonna have a huge debt behind you. And it is a risk that you must be ready to run and that you must also be aware of before you go into other people's businesses. If you do it as an employee, then there is also a risk; it is considerably smaller, but I think it is very positive if you can do it. It can also be a great advantage for the existing owner of the company to be able to pay part by employee shares or by options, so that more capital is released to invest in the company, to develop the company and to create even more jobs than you already have, for those people who may not want to start a business themselves or who want to have some employee shares. And I would also like to create better conditions for that. Today, there are limits to how many employee shares a company can offer and how much you can pay in that way. Why don't we do something about it instead? Together, we need to find ways of lifting the obstacles and restrictions that exist for such things, rather than going in and starting to create new forms of business. It is also striking that the proposal has three sides which deal with the ability of employees to benefit and other benefits of becoming co-owners, while four and a half lines are spent on employees' obligations as co-owners. There is much talk of the possibility of dividends, but there is little talk of the consequences of a possible suspension or bankruptcy. What's up? What's gonna happen? So you've lost some pay that you've got in the form of shares, and the stock just won't be worth anything. And maybe additional capital injection will be needed. And should you also participate in it, or should it only be for the original owners? I see, as I have said, and it makes the Liberal Alliance very happy that we will have better opportunities for an employee to be paid in part through shares and options, and, as I said, it would be nice if we could look together at raising the limits that today is. As far as that is concerned, with one vote per year. person and not per person I would like to say that it does not even have land at all. It is only fair that those who are most at risk are, of course, also those who have the most codecision power, and if you change that, you will also find it difficult to get some major investors in. It can be difficult to obtain capital at all, and then you can risk that the company cannot raise enough capital at all to drive around at all to ensure that there is a job for some employees and a company to become a co-owner of. I had a lot more to say, but I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121759	That's right; time's up. Then there are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121804	Unfortunately, I think that this is an example of how ideological and political differences sometimes follow completely in order to actually discuss the same thing. Because I think Mrs May-Britt Kattrup is saying a little the same thing that I also heard from the Left, namely trying to draw a picture that this is some kind of hostile takeover of a company, or that someone who has created a business is being pushed out, etc. Well, let's discuss what this proposal is about. It is about creating a form of company with rights and obligations. Part of the proposal could be that the design should be separated into two levels, so as to ensure rules for payments and payments, which in turn must also ensure that the company cannot be emptied of value and that there are also reasonable rules if you go bankrupt etc. One might well think that democratic ownership should be promoted in other ways or something, but I think it is a pity that the discussion bears so much emphasis on some form of idea that somebody will steal somebody else's businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121922	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412121923	But why not use the opportunities that already exist instead of starting to create new forms of business, new rules and more bureaucracy? So let us remove some of the limits that exist today for companies to pay off their employees with shares or stock options. Then they'll be co-owners. And there are already proposals for what is provided for and there are systems that already operate on it, but there are some restrictions on it. Why do we not agree to remove these restrictions instead? This could be beneficial for both company and employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122001	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122002	We are simply talking about two very different things. It is not the ms design we want, and we do not want remuneration in shares, but we want those who want it to have a form of company where you can become co-owners on an equal footing. So we are simply not talking about the same thing. This is a form of company which, as an entrepreneur, you can choose to start a business such as, or which can be used for example. generational change where the owner of a company says: I would like to sell or hand it over to the employees. So I think we talk a lot past each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122046	Well, I do not see that this is possible in the existing forms of business and the existing rules. That's one thing. However, the second point that I have now noticed, Mrs Bech Poulsen, has spoken a great deal about, is the problem of generational change. And here, too, it would be incredibly nice if we could find out together, for example. to remove the inheritance tax. Because that would really, really ease the generation shift. That is a real problem; I would very much like to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122117	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122120	I really believe that the rapporteur and I share the sentiment of entrepreneurship and that there must be good opportunities for entrepreneurs. But I must admit that I actually hear the rapporteur reading the motion for a resolution quite differently than I do. Because if you forget that it is the SF that has put it forward and that the Liberal Alliance and the SF often disagree on this point, isn't it just a way to get the Danes to get used more to what it takes to be an entrepreneur, namely to take some risk within an established framework and understand how this works, so perhaps in the long term some people can go out and take the responsibility themselves to start something? 'Cause we're not all gonna be entrepreneurs, are we? I think that in the alternative, we talk a lot about entrepreneurship, and sometimes some people think that we all think that we should be entrepreneurs. We do not think so. It is not everyone who should or is geared to it at all, but it might be interesting to have a form of company that motivated both those who start the companies, but also those who are employed to take responsibility, taking a risk, one and the other, but in an established framework. It may already be possible today, and perhaps it is also a bit my criticism of the proposal, namely that it may not be necessary to get anything new. But one cannot disagree, I think, with the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122226	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122227	In other words, getting more entrepreneurs in Denmark and getting more self-employed in Denmark is clearly the policy of the Liberal Alliance, there is no doubt about that, and I am pleased that it is also the policy of the alternative. But that is clearly our policy and what I would like to see. And the better conditions we can create for entrepreneurs and for self-employed people, the better it is for Denmark. So that is clearly the way to go. But this can already be done through employees and employees today. That's what I can't understand. As Mr. René Gade points out that it can be done with the forms of enterprise one has today. So let us strengthen it and let us remove any hurdles that are so that it can be even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122323	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122324	Perhaps that is why I am quite confident about being positive about the proposal, because I actually read the text of the resolution in such a way that it is something that we would like to promote. It states: "Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of employee-owned enterprises'. Then a new form of company has been proposed, and perhaps it is the easiest thing to understand when it comes to discussing in here. But I could imagine that SF was willing to see if it could be within the existing framework. But then there's just one thought that maybe it can't. It may just be a comment from this, but I am actually reading the proposal here in such a way as to promote employee-owned companies. Then we can discuss whether this can be done within the existing framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122359	I do not have much new to say, because that was mostly a comment. However, we must clearly do everything we can to create a good framework for entrepreneurs and self-employed people in Denmark. It must be easy both to start and run a business in Denmark, and when it comes to the prerequisites, we should be helped to make the conditions easier. There is no doubt about that, and that is clearly the policy of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122428	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122431	The rapporteur says that it does not even have on earth with companies where it is one person, one vote, and not the share of capital. Then I just want to inform you that there are a billion people on earth who are members of that type of business. There are 150 million Members or more in Europe. In Denmark we have 18,605 companies that are run according to that principle. 10% Danish companies' turnover takes place in companies which are driven by that principle. 5.5% of the privately employed Danes are employed in companies that run according to that principle. So, yeah, it's on the ground. We just haven't been so good at seeing this business as something special. We were when it started with the pioneer spirit when the first utility association opened when the first district heating network was laid out by the citizens themselves. Then it has been professionalized, and perhaps there has also been a tendency to perceive itself as a corporate. But now there is a trend in the world, also recognised by the European Union and the European Commission, to think that this type of business can do something special. It is more robust by e.g. crises. There are other ways of investing countercyclically, and therefore there is a special value. So there's a reason to promote this democratic ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122547	But the difference between the examples, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted is now coming along, and what has been proposed in the proposal, as I read it, is that in the proposal we are talking about existing companies, and we are talking about people who have started businesses, who should then have the opportunity to come in and get a share of it. And it's fine if we can find some good forms of it. We already have that today, and if we can strengthen it, that is fine. But, of course, one cannot go into existing companies and say one vote per. head. That's what Mr. Pelle Dragsted talks about is something where it has been from the beginning; it is something that has been agreed from the start. It's a cooperative society, it's a member association, like Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself proposes. And that's something else entirely. And if you have citizens today who want to start something together and you agree from the outset that you have one vote per person. Head, that's nice and super. But you can't go into an existing company and then water down the original owner like this. It's almost expropriation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122651	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122654	Yes, it would certainly be, but no one is suggesting SF in their proposals either. But let me actually ask a constructive question, because the rapporteur was now concerned about the estate tax and the inheritance tax. In the United Kingdom, tax legislation has been introduced which means that if a company facing a generational change sells to what is called an employee ownership trust, the seller will be exempt from profit tax and the recipient will be exempt from inheritance tax. It is therefore a kind of fund where the first requirement is that employees own at least 51 per cent. by number of hours worked. Could this be something that the Liberal Alliance would support, even if we did not generally abolish the estate and inheritance tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122747	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122748	We must always look abroad and see if there are any good things we can be inspired by and use in Denmark. You always have to do that. In Denmark we actually have an opportunity to make a change of residence by involving a charity association, which then pays the settlement fee. So we have a bit of it, although it is not exactly the same style, but we have actually suffered from it in Denmark. But if you can do it further, you must always look at what is abroad and what you can be inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122819	We thank the rapporteur. And although they are probably important negotiations, they may need to be slightly more subdued. We move on to Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412122832	It's rare for me to be here on Fridays. I am usually allowed to go home to the Jutland of my good colleagues in the Alternative, where we share the duties and the rapporteur's areas of responsibility so that we can also have time to look after the family and one and the other. However, I am glad that I am in the Chamber today discussing this for my fellow rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, our usual business rapporteur. Because it's a landmark. When I entered politics four years ago, it was at least a lot of people's opinion that that part of the Folketing, which was previously seen as such in many eyes as the Red Block, may still have something to do with socialism. And some people say that they are basically socialists. There are Social Democrats, and then there is the alternative, which is red and blue and a little green, and there are the Radicals who can also go a little both ways. There are really many in business circles, regardless of how you see it here, who have never really believed that, for example, Enhedslisten was keen on business policy, or that SF had some attitudes that had to be built on. But I look forward to hearing about Enhedslisten's new business policy when it comes forward and what it is that is on the field there. 'Cause I think it sounds interesting. This is the same as what I hear if I go across the street, where there is one of the biggest entrepreneurial hubs here at home, a startup hub that grows both nationally and internationally. The way in which we build business, the ideas and the values that exist is what we see in this motion for a resolution. That's what we're hearing from Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. That's super interesting. So there are no more parties here at home to be perceived in the way that we think there are some who cannot understand how business is to function. I am not saying that it was in any way the case in the past, but we should not put each other in boxes like this. It may be that we have completely different analyses of what is needed, yes, but I just want to say that this thought has just started on earth. It's got a lot of ground going on. There are so many who have understood that ownership in companies should not just lie with those who have started them if things are to go very well. We're talking about there having to be bars. If you have a new product, you must have people to be fans of your service, or you must almost be a member of a company in order to really create ownership. It is logical, then, that we should also promote this among our employees in the companies. So, yes, we are very positive about the whole idea here. It was a long outside talk at first, but I was just very pleased to hear that the idea was put to shame, that there are certain parties here in the Danish Parliament who do not have good visions in this area, which can thus also make profits on the economic bottom line. 'Cause I'm quite sure this can do the same. Then I would like to make one comment on the motion for a resolution, two perhaps, in addition to the positive one. Perhaps this can be contained in existing business forms. I am simply not sharp enough on the various forms, but I imagine it could. But I actually think we need a driver to focus on what you can do with this business form that you haven't been able to do for many years. Well, understanding hasn't been there. I haven't had it myself if I had to try to start a business. I think that there are many barriers to thinking in this direction, precisely if you are going to talk to investors. Then we can get a framework that makes it legitimate, so yes to it. Then I made one last point, but maybe I forgot it, and that's true with time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123144	That's what it does. So we thank you very much and move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123151	Entrepreneurship can have many forms, and it can also have many forms of ownership. And it is important that we here from Christiansborg allow you to have your business in a great many different ways. And that's why we think the idea of employee-owned companies is exciting. We also helped legislate on employee shares in the latest business agreement with the government. We have suggested that we could try to see if there could be a cooperative version of companies like the Uber platforms. Instead of a large platform company having to own the digital platform being run on and thus taking a lot of money from those running on it, one might imagine that every single truck driver or every single taxi driver who has a car could drive on a staffed platform that you could make data available to from the public and say: could we help optimize it? Of course, there is really, very much data to be used to make such good technological solutions, but it is not inconceivable that one could at all try to support the cooperative idea more. We also have an initiative called "Small is good," where we look at some of the places where there are today, you might say, employee-owned companies, namely in the agricultural sector, in order to see if we can have even more cooperatives and cooperatives. Therefore, we also think it is good that the SF takes this up today, and we would like to be involved in discussing how we can promote it. Whether it should be precisely the three points SF outlines with a new form of company depends on whether an analysis will be able to show whether it can be accommodated within the existing framework. Getting more focus on whether you ever get the awareness that you can create a business in this way is one of the things that comes out of such a political discussion as the one we have here. We will probably be more reluctant to give employee status to employees. At any rate, it may be a risk of wiping off a bill on some others. I would also like to hear what the trade union movement says about that part of it. But we really want to talk about whether, in the subsequent work, we can at least try to see if we can get the government to start a work of learning what this can mean in Denmark and what some of the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123411	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123413	It was because I think that what is called Platform Cooperativeism is so exciting, i.e. the part- ownership of platforms, because it is something that is also happening relatively much internationally. Google of all has granted 1 billion. kr. to try to make such very accessible kits • What is it in Danish? In other words, a set so that platform companies can be set up very easily without having very, very large capital resources in their hands. If we look at several American cities, it is actually platform companies, such as the United States. has the taxi market instead of Uber. In New York, a cleaning company has been set up which primarily employs migrant women, but with proper working conditions, i.e. a platform-based cleaning service. And so there are a lot of initiatives around, so there is a lot of work to be done on it. I think it might be interesting if, as part of the negotiations that we hope to have after an election, we could also allocate some money back home in Denmark. It doesn't have to be a great deal of money to set up and support some infrastructure for it. Was it something that the Radical Left would find interesting?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123521	Yes, I can't just stand up here and promise money, but I can at least promise that we think it would be very exciting to go into work to make platform companies something that could also be an opportunity for all those who work there and who do not necessarily have to be owned by large Silicon Valley companies. And that's why, of course, I get a little bit of concern when Google does things out of their good heart. I guess you always have to think, what are they pulling in there? But they have also given us many advantages in life, so it can happen, and it happens sometimes. I don't think there's a lot of people in this room who don't google anything in a day. But again, when you use that kind of kit, I just want to say, you always have to pay attention to what you then distribute and deliver out on the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123610	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123611	In fact, I was just going to google to prepare myself for the next rapporteur's speech. I wanted to see what Conservative parties in other countries think about the cooperative sector. But we will come back to that. Now much has been said about the Left as the home of the cooperative movement, but the Radical Left comes out of the same tradition. Does the Radical Left share a general view that we have had a business sector which may have lived a little in secret and which we need to re-appreciate and where we might also think in a targeted framework for what might be called the democratic business sector, where it is one person, one voice that is the form of governance, and not one crown, one voice that is the form of governance in the investor-owned companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123652	Yes, at least we share the intention to see if you can lift the cooperative-owned forms of company something more, and see what it can look like in a modern world. It has helped to build Denmark, you might say. The cooperative movement helped to create Denmark with the first growth we had here. And the wealth came out of finding a way to get together. So this is certainly an area where I think we also have a lot of potential in Denmark, because we have a story from which we can learn something, and because in this way we can talk into a grocery DNA, which also exists in the smaller forms of ownership. And we would very much like to be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123730	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123731	Thank you. Now that we are in the process of making all kinds of recommendations, I would also like to say that instead of goingogling or binging something, you can start with it if you are happy with your privacy. It was just a recommendation. I do that myself; I start with quite a lot. I am very pleased with Mrs Ida Auken's comments, and it is also the objective that is important and not whether it is the means or the tools to get there. And like both Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Mrs Ida Auken, I also think that the whole platform tank came over us so quickly that we didn't really have time to see what was before these monopolies were over us. But it is also a gift to both democratically owned companies and a new form of entrepreneurship if we can support it. So I think that is really, really exciting, and I am happy with the commitment that we should look more at this and at how we can promote it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123834	Well, then we're all happy, and we can see if we can get on with this area in the future. After all, in the field of the platform, there are some things that we need to drill out, because now we are dragging with us a co-seated form, but we are also dragging on a notion that we have the employer and the employee as the only model. I think it goes back 300 to 400 years in the legislation; that is the way we have built it up. It is clear that with a platform you are suddenly neither a full employee nor a full employee, but you are somewhere in between. And that means looking at what kind of rights you should have in the event of bankruptcy, in the case of sickness and other things. We're still out there finding our legs. I have to say that the government has also taken some steps here, which must be commended. And the trade union movement itself is gaining a greater insight into this area. And I think it's some exciting new agreements that you've started working on, with Voocali, I think it's all the way from making it... they're probably not perfect yet, but I think it's really exciting to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412123942	Thank you very much. Now I look forward very much to finding out what the Conservatives think around the world. So I'm really excited. Well, first of all, thanks to SF for raising this debate, which is of course about how to improve the conditions for employee-owned companies. The motion for a resolution here requires the government to present a proposal on how employee-owned companies can be promoted through various actions. And this is a very relevant debate. In the Conservative People's Party, we are also very concerned about how we can strengthen the foundation of our companies and motivate employees to do something more and also create a better environment for entrepreneurship, so that in the future we will also create a richer Denmark where we will have some companies that flourish. So I think it is a very, very sympathetic proposal, but when I look at it that way, I do not think it brings so much new in relation to the opportunities we have today. For example, you can issue employee shares. This was, of course, an arrangement that we improved in connection with this recent business and entrepreneurial package. You can make options, or the employees can buy shares in the company, and then there's finally this employee investment company as an option. So there are a lot of opportunities today for you as an employee to become part of the company in which you work in one way or another. It is of course very relevant to talk about the involvement of employees in the company, i.e. in the decision-making process, in the management, in the co-ownership of the company, but it is also something that we believe can be handled within the existing framework and the existing forms of company. On the other hand, we think it is very relevant to talk about how we generally create better conditions for our business companies, i.e. whoever is the owner of the company, so that we also have a better basis to support the development of our business community and thus also prosperity and growth in Denmark. You can do that in many ways, but you can also look at the relief of taxes or administrative burdens. Or e.g. I should like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and whether it is prepared to accept them. employees. But that is not what I sense in this motion from the authors of the motion for a resolution. Finally, there has been a debate on this issue of democracy and voting rights, and there are, of course, already opportunities in company law in relation to dividing stock classes, so that voting rights can be obtained in some other ways if you agree to it. So that possibility is already in the legislation today, but it is on a voluntary basis as an agreement between parties, a shareholder agreement or the way in which the statutes are held in the company. You can do that. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to make it easier to run businesses or transfer businesses, for that matter, because it is really fine when employees go in and are an active part of the company, and we would very much like to make that more attractive. We can also look at such things as capital taxation, i.e. this problem of if you invest in a company, you are actually quite heavily taxed in Denmark. We have one of the absolute highest taxes on capital in the OECD, and that is what makes it less attractive to invest as employees or as others in Danish companies. And that is also some of what we could do, so perhaps make it easier to raise capital in Denmark if we had a look at it. So we agree with the intention that we should do better and support the business community in Denmark etc. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we should be able to vote for the motion for a resolution, and I think it is a good thing that we should be able to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412124328	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, and then we go on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412124350	After all, the democratic business sector in Denmark is very, very much, much more than we sometimes think about. Most adult Danes are shareholders. We have 3 million people in Denmark who are shareholders in an energy company, we have Coop, who translates for 50 billion. kr. a year and where 1.7 million Danes who go down in Brugsen and shop are co-owners. After all, this whole story goes back well over 100 years, when Denmark, as several people have mentioned, was at the forefront of guaranteeing democratic ownership through dairies, slaughterhouses, the first utility association in Thisted. Well, it's like Mr. Kim. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned something that has had broad support in Denmark. Both the Left and the Radical Left have such roots in the cooperative movement, we also have that in the SF and in the rest of the left and in the Social Democratic Party. If you're going to be a little pointy, you might say that exactly the Conservatives may not have deep, deep roots in this, but I think that we all, at least today, think it makes real sense that we have as much of our economy as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also explained which is owned, either cooperatively owned, member-owned, consumer-owned, customer-owned, because it ensures that you get investment in the company for pleasure and benefit, that you keep prices down at least most often and that there is growth and development and job creation in Denmark. Democratic Business Network is a think tank that has been set up with over 80 members and actors as different as Dansk Energi, Coop etc. Here we established that it was actually the first time in Danish history that both the cooperative movement was brought together with its roots in agriculture, as well as the customer-owned and member-owned companies and employee-owned cooperative operations, i.e. a broad palette of democratic ownership. Today we have discussed the part of what is called employee ownership, because in Denmark we do not see that much in relation to many other countries. I would like to thank Mr Seligman in particular. Pelle Dragsted for his remarks, also the more critical of them. I am also looking forward to seeing the proposal that you are making, but in general I would like to say thank you for the positive comments of the Radical Left and the Alternative and Social Democrats and, in fact, I also heard from the Danish People's Party. After all, this is something that across political differences can meet many needs: maintaining jobs in Denmark, that the values that are being created also remain at home, that those who help to ensure the development that is needed also reap the benefits of it, so I really think that many of us across the political differences that are can see ourselves in it. I think the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur read the proposal, which the hell reads the Bible... excuse the expression "that there was such a hostile socialist takeover of the means of production in the speech." That's not it. It is a form of business that you can use, either when you want to start a business, or if you are involved in transferring the company to the company in agreement with the company's owners, that is clear. I also find it very exciting what the rapporteurs of the Alternative and the Radicals said about spreading the palette of entrepreneurship and saying that entrepreneurs come in many shapes and colours. Some would like to start all themselves, others would like to start together. One of the companies with employees' ownership is the analytics company called Analyse & Tal, which works in this way. A number of other companies can actually be found. But we can see in comparison with our neighbouring countries that there is something that is stretching, and that is why we think we should make sure that there is at least nothing that makes this form of company and this development more difficult if one wants to go down this road all by itself and quite voluntarily and without compulsion. So I will try to see whether we cannot agree, at least some of the parties, whether some kind of text or understanding of how we can proceed along this path, see what needs to be done, and then I hope that something will also come out on the other side. I would also like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur, because I also thought I heard some very accommodating tactics from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412124928	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412124931	Thank you for your review. I was overwhelmed by the positive mood, so I forgot my primary critical point when I stood on the platform at the end. In general terms, we are very positive about the proposal, and this is not anyone either, what should we say, show-stopping for us. However, paragraph 2, i.e. the status of employees in MEVs, is perhaps one of the most important things to do, and the proposal here gives us the opportunity to debate it. The rapporteur of the Radicals also referred to what should be in this. It is, in fact, problematic that we have conditions for entrepreneurs, self-employed people and business leaders today, which we do not really want the employees who are to suffer. That, in fact, is how I read the proposal. One is aware that there are some conditions that are actually not so safe to navigate for an entrepreneur. So my point is just whether we should perhaps also look at improving conditions for entrepreneurs and self-employed people on those points. For it is very insecure to embark on, and then it becomes even harder to engage in entrepreneurship for Danes who are so enriched by having a good welfare society, if you go out as an entrepreneur, it loses safety net. So it was such an obs-point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125042	Thank you, sir. René Gade to underline one of the points in this proposal about what we're doing with this new type of employee, who is on a lot of platforms. They are identified as self-employed by the platform's owner, but they themselves consider that they are a kind of workers or employees with some managers who have the right to instruction and that is what we have the big discussion about, which is also the subject of the trade union movement, that is, what you do in this new border country, which I think was also Mrs Ida Auken's concept. So that is also why we are asking how we can secure some rights so that more people dare take the leap. SF also has a proposal on maternity leave for self-employed workers. There was a maternity fund in the past that was shipwrecked, you might say. It was not well enough screwed up, but that is not an argument that there should not also be maternity leave for self-employed people. After all, this is just one specific area which can be said to prevent many people from embarking on that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125152	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125154	There may be all sorts of good suggestions for the self-employed, but the very security to embark on it I think this can be a sensible step up to. The alternative came back with an entrepreneurial package in 2016, where we set out to get 80%. the unemployment benefit rate for a two-year period without having to appear in an office all the time, but you just had to have a few milestones, that is, some goals that you had to live up to so that you could go to entrepreneurship. We're looking for a similar security in this form of company, so people say yes to taking risks and maybe help the business owner even more to go the extra mile. Therefore, when you see that they must have better conditions than entrepreneurs, it can cut their eyes a little bit, but I agree with the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125237	That is absolutely not the intention. Now the proposal is just specific to employee ownership and how to deal with some of the problems that can be caused by people may be afraid of losing their pension, entitlement to maternity leave and other things if their status changes. However, I think that this is a broad issue, which is also about taking risks as an entrepreneur and being able to deliver a great deal back to society. And surely we cannot try to find any arrangements where there is better opportunity in relation to pension savings, in relation to maternity leave, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125318	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125319	It's just a matter of employee rights. There is a particular challenge about unemployment benefits, for if you e.g. form an FMBA or an AMBA with less than ten members, you have a controlling influence, and thus you are declared independent, and this presents some challenges in relation to the daily allowance. I think it may well be that some of the problems have been solved with the new rules on unemployment benefits, where you can both be self-employed and employees at once, but that is at least one of the things you need to look at. Because, of course, it is unfortunate if, because you are employed in a cooperative with nine members, you do not have access to unemployment benefits if you, for example, have access to unemployment benefits. I'm fucking with you. I would just like to say a word of thanks for a very good debate. I really do think there are prospects in a future session, and I would really like to call on you now that I am not even here in the next session to try to create an inter-political network with some of the people in the various parties who have a particular interest in this field, who could develop this debate and maybe do some hearings and invite this think tank in here and that sort of thing. I think that would be insanely positive. So it's just a call from a outgoing member.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125422	I think that's a really good idea. And especially when two current members of the Folketing, who do not re-appear, from the Alternative and Enhedslisten, are so passionate about this, it could be that you could get some connection to the work here, because we need all good powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125442	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125500	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125515	Thank you. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution, which aims to prohibit inmates from making money on books about their crimes, books that they publish while in prison. I understand very well that the cases in which criminals have published books on their crimes and made money on them are offensive, especially to the relatives of the victims of the crimes. It seems offensive to me, too. I therefore believe that it is sensible to examine the possibilities for action in this area. On the other hand, I simply do not wish to take a position now on whether and how action should be taken. This requires us to know which legal framework we are subject to. Specifically, we need to clarify whether the Constitution and our international commitments set any limits on what we can do. We shall begin to examine this on the basis of the proposal here, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution on the current basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125621	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125624	Thank you, Minister. I therefore have a great deal of sympathy for what has been emphasized in the motion for a resolution, which says that when we legislate, we must, of course, remain within the framework of the constitution. I just need to know, because now some work has been started, I understand, on the one hand, when the minister expects that work is done and, on the other hand, whether the signal from the minister is that this is the way we have to go. Well, what was brought up for the group that had to work on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125654	The upbringing is to look at the fact that if you had to do this, then how. In it then there is not that now we must or must not, it is simply to learn how to do this, if you want to. I think we all understand very well that there must be some relatives of victims who think this is quite cross-border. That is why it is simply a matter of examining the possibilities for action. So what are the options? When we know them, it's easier to take a position. I simply find it difficult to take a position on this before I know the extent of the implications and what that will mean for our commitments. I just want to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125733	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125734	Thank you. Well, let me ask you another way: if you can, will the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125740	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125743	I can't answer that, because the government hasn't discussed that. When we have a basis, I'd like to discuss it and then I'll answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125749	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125750	I would just like to ask the Minister whether he intends to convey the mandate for the work that has been started so that we can clarify what is actually being examined. Because that is not what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125803-2	No mandate has been made. I mean, it's not like I'm sitting here writing big responsibilities because we're gonna have to look into this. So, the Danish People's Party has suggested that you should not be able to make money by writing books about your crimes when you are in prison. And then it's just that I've asked for an investigation: can you do that in relation to the Constitution? Can this be done in relation to our international commitments? And when we know it, we can take a better position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125832	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125833	Now, in my rapporteur's speech, I shall come back to what is actually or is not in that proposal, but does that mean that work has been started without any kind of guidelines for the work? Perhaps the word mandate sounded like I was imagining something big, but if the Minister has just written a few lines, will the Minister ensure that they are sent over?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125857	Well, I haven't even written a few lines. It is the case that you are sitting in a meeting of the Minister's office with the officials who are now working on this area and I say: this resolution has arrived; can we not just examine the implications of it and the legal framework for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125912	Then we thank the Minister for Justice and move on to the negotiations. And that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412125923	Should you be able to make money by killing another person while you're in prison? That is basically what we are discussing here today. Should you be able to write books about, for example, a murder or other serious crime and have them published while you are in prison? We do not think so in the Social Democratic Party. I find it hard to imagine how intrusive it must be to be left as a victim or relative of someone who has been subjected to a serious crime and then to be the subject of a book on which the perpetrator sits in prison and earns good money. I find it very difficult to see the righteous and the right in that. Nevertheless, it is possible today, and several of the worst criminals in Danish history have taken advantage of the opportunity • Peter Lundin is probably the most well-known example. Not only is it deeply offensive to the victims and their relatives, but there may also be a risk of others being inspired by it. With the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have visited prisons on several occasions, and we can see that some of the most widely lent titles in prison libraries have just been published by criminals who report how they committed their crimes, or that, for the sake of good order, is also said by police officers who tell how they have solved crime. We cannot and must not restrict the freedom of expression and, on the other hand, it is also extremely important for me to say here from Parliament's speaking chair today that it is not for inmates either. But it is important that we send out a clear signal and that is what I heard from the Danish People's Party asking that motivation should not come in the form of financial incentives. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party also think it is quite reasonable that we should clarify this area in greater detail and that we should examine what pitfalls there can be precisely in terms of freedom of expression and our international obligations, and whether this is contrary to the Constitution. However, we think it is important to send a very clear signal that when you are in prison and that is what we are talking about and publishing books on how to commit a murder, for example, there is something that violates the sense of justice very strongly. And that's what we need to address. So we cannot support the proposal here, but we support a report which addresses this issue. And maybe that answers Mr. Søren Søndergaard's question in relation to what should then be examined further. We can make that clear in the report which comes from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130159	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130201	I have to admit that I think that the Socialist rapporteur's speech is just as incoherent as the proposal. What does the Social Democratic Party support? So, on the one hand, the rapporteur is talking about not making money and, on the other hand, the rapporteur is talking about someone who borrows books. Can you write books if you don't get paid for it, or what? So, what kind of proposal does the Social Democratic Party support?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130222	Oh, I think that was very clear now. It may be Friday, but I think it was very clear that we do not think we should sit in prison and write books on murder or other serious crime committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130235	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130236	So what the Social Democratic Party imagines is that if you have received a verdict on e.g. Ten years in prison, so you can't write books for 10 years; then you can't write anything down and get it out of prison. Is that what Social Democracy imagines?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130254	Well, I guess we all do little pocket notes once in a while, and you can do that when you're in a prison. What this is about is whether you can publish a book about the crime you have committed. And that is what we want to be examined more closely. Because we think there is something wrong with the fact that, while serving your sentence, you can sit and publish your report on how you have committed your crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130319	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130323	Well, it is just a surprise about something technical, and that is that I am very pleased with the signals from the Socialist rapporteur that we support the intention of the proposal, but I understand that it is not intended to vote in favour of the proposal. So I would just like to know whether there is anything technically impossible about the Socialist side voting in favour of the proposal on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course, it also recognises that there is work being done by the government. However, it may be a motivational factor for the government if it knows that a large part of the Folketing has clearly indicated the direction in which it would like to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130357	When it is that we are not going to support the proposal, it is because we sincerely doubt whether it is contrary to the Constitution and our international obligations. That is what makes us land a report instead. However, we will send out a very clear signal that we do not think we should sit and write books about our crime in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130417	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130426	Thank you. The proposal before us today concerns the possibility of depriving inmates of the right to make money from book publications. We want to oblige the government to put forward a proposal that has the effect, etc., that books cannot be used to make money. Let us just put it plainly: I do not think there is anyone sitting here who welcomes the fact that known and cruel criminals can make money from their crime, let alone describe it, and that is probably most of all the consideration for the relatives that we have in mind here. Having said that, I must also say that we are living in a country that is subject to the Constitution and, if the Minister of Justice is in doubt about this, namely whether this is contrary to the Constitution, then it is so that we do not take away people's pen and paper, even because they are going to prison. We are depriving them of many other rights, and that would certainly justify an examination of whether this can be done. On the other hand, I would like to point out something that can be done with a state guarantee, and that is the following: the people who sit in these circumstances with long prison sentences have a large debt to the public authorities that is quite clear. They are in heavy debt as a result of the trial and its legal costs; they are in heavy debt typically as a result of a resulting compensation case in which the state has posted the money to the victim. So summa summarum they owe the state really, very much money... it doesn't fail in any case. It could of course be considered, and the Ministry of Justice could take this into account, if the same result could not be achieved by indicating to those concerned that if there is any book in which there is money at all, they should be prepared for that money to be paid out immediately. And I have no doubt that can take place with the result that there will not be a crown over the counter to those concerned. I think it makes sense for the Ministry of Justice to look into the possibilities that may exist. We cannot support this proposal; we must see the results of the studies first. And it is, as I said, investigations into whether it is unconstitutional, and it is, as I said, investigations into whether patenting and authorship rights cannot serve the same purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130657	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. So we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412130711	I fully understand that the proposers have been busy producing a number of proposals for the forthcoming election campaign. Contrary to the government, the Danish People's Party does not, after all, have the entire state administration available to produce their electoral propaganda. Unfortunately, however, I also have to say that the proposal bears the stamp of haste. In fact, it is quite difficult to find the clarity of thought anywhere in this proposal... just a few examples. Firstly, the observations made in the proposal argue over and over again that the proposal should ensure that inmates are no longer able to earn money from writing books about their misdeeds. But the proposal is about making money from book releases in general, that is to say also about a fraud-judge who writes a book about twelve-tone music, or a burglar who writes a book about butterflies. What do the proposers really want? Secondly, the proposal's comments mention HA-rockeren Jørn Nielsen as an example of someone who must be understood to be affected by this legislation. But Jønke, as he was called, wrote or paid someone else to write, presumably, the book "My Second Life" before he was arrested. So revenue from that book is not covered at all by the proposal as it is formulated or are they? What do the proposers really think? Should it also be forbidden to make money from books that you have written before you went to prison before you were convicted? And how exactly is it to be administered? Thirdly, it is claimed that the reason for the proposal in the comments is: criminals who publish books may appear as heroes in the public eye and encourage others to commit crime because of the much attention they often receive. Okay, that's understandable. Criminals in prison are not allowed to publish books, end of story. But then it says immediately after the proposal: "The request thus does not in any way restrict the freedom of expression of the prisoners. They still have to write and publish books. They are losing only the opportunity, as today, to make money from these. In other words, when these criminals get heroic status in the public domain, it is not at all due to their books or the attention they get, but to the money they get the money they want to earn from it. Or how? Voila, the Count said he was born in France. It's just to put it bluntly... meaningless. Honestly, I understand that the Danish People's Party is outraged that there are some examples of imprisoned criminals who have made money publishing a book about their abominable atrocities. I share that outrage. It makes me sick both to the one who writes the book, to the one who publishes the book, and to the one who buys the book. But that problem is not solved by such an ill-prepared and ill-thought-out proposal as it put forward. The proposal states that, following the motion for a resolution, the government is required to submit a draft law before the end of the current parliamentary assembly. That is to say, within the next few weeks. Honestly, it is simply not serious. Instead, I would urge the proposers to come up here and withdraw their proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131116	Yeah. Then we have a brief comment to make on Mr. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131121	I can promise you, sir. Søren Søndergaard, that I am looking forward to taking the floor and giving my rapporteur's speech and, hopefully, also replying to Mr Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard's question. But in the first place, sir... Søren Søndergaard answers my question. That is, if you basically say that you agree with the intention of Mr. Søren Søndergaard even used the word nauseous about what the proposal actually contains. Søren Søndergaard then do about it? Well, it's fair enough that we can disagree on the form, or that Mr. Søren Søndergaard might have wanted it to be another proposal, but what will Enhedslisten do about it if you do not want the Danish People's Party's way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131158	I didn't say I agreed with the intentions. I can tell you, by the way... Peter Kofod tells me that there are many things that make me sick that I don't want to ban. So it's not about that at all. But I can easily see that there might be an idea in looking at whether people should be able to publish books about their crimes, books they make money on, and there I think that the proposal that comes from the Left, looking at the debt that people have and recovering it, would be a relevant proposal. Then there are just some problems: how do you distinguish between different crimes? It is not necessarily all crimes that cause the same nausea. And how do you distinguish between different punishments? We can all have our preferences for what we think is a particularly bad crime. For example, is it... a particularly bad crime to trick savings from poor people? Is it a particularly bad crime to be responsible for an accident at work that costs a person in his life? We can all discuss this, but I think we will have some delimitation problems. I am willing to look in that direction, but that requires us to start by saying: what do we want? And this proposal stands in all directions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131306	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131321	Thank you. I think we all agree that it is almost impossible to imagine anything more abhorrent and griefful than the feeling that must be felt by those whose loved ones, for example. has taken their lives from another human being. And if the same people who must both be without their daughter or their mate or close friend and must live with the grief that comes with it, may experience that the perpetrators can sit inside their prison cells and write a book, possibly a book about their criminal act... it may be a self-examination that interprets the condition of the person at the moment of the crime or describes the course that led up to the one who completely swaying disgusting act... then they must live with it, because everyone has freedom of expression, and that also applies to criminals. So you have to live with that. But looking beyond a book publication, which can be self-searching and explicit in relation to something that is very heavy, one must experience that he can sit in his prison cell and make money from the deeds he has committed, it is wildly offensive. Fortunately, I have never experienced it, but if you try to understand both the heads and the hearts of the people who have had to experience it, then I can hardly imagine anything more offensive. So the Liberal Alliance fully agrees with the purpose of this motion for a resolution. The Minister of Justice has explained the legal complications that may be involved. I agree that it is good to set the work in motion in order to resolve any complications that may arise and that the Folketing must then meet later and look at how to stop someone from sitting in a prison cell and earn money from their totally inhumane deeds. But so, for the moment we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131526	In the alternative, we cannot support the motion for a resolution, but I think it is important that we clearly emphasise what the other rapporteurs have also done. And I do not have full respect for the intention of not making money; that is not really what I am going to do; there I think the Enhedslisten's rapporteur very clearly explained why it is not so meaningful to crack down on money. But perhaps we should discuss more, whether we can accept morally at all, that there are people sitting and writing books, and that the books come out and in this way harm the relatives, completely whether they make money on it or not. But we fully agree that it is both nauseating and unethical and should actually be something that could not happen when criminals sit in prison and then write about bestiality and make money from it. But just writing about it is morally reprehensible at all. There is freedom of expression, there is a legislative framework ~ as the Minister of Justice has also just explained which makes it difficult to do anything about it. But if you can do something about it in a way that is meaningful, then we'd like to look at it later. However, with regard to this proposal, we do believe that it goes against a lot of common sense to say that writing books in prisons in general should not make money. I really get many gifted letters from inmates, for example. social analysis, and important books have already been written by people who have been inserted. I think it is important, in relation to the development that you go through as an inmate, that you can set a target for where you want to go when you come back out, so that you do not get out and land in the same path. And there I think that, for example, writing and publishing books could be a road for some. There are others who work hard to do physical hard work or to be part of another community in prison. However, I think that we should in every way make prison something that makes people better, rather than trying to punish them beyond detention. It would be very unusable to do so. With that said, I should also like to welcome from the SF and from the Radicals and say that they are also opposed to the proposal. And I would like to say again that I fully agree with how unpleasant it is that there are people sitting and earning money from publishing books from prisons where they exhibit the suffering of the victims and the suffering of the relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131804	The rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131810	Thank you. I can hardly imagine anything more insulting than a perpetrator who exploits a crime committed against another human being in order to make money from it. And powerless, the victim can be allowed to relive the crime. This government, with a Conservative Justice Minister, has tightened up in several areas, and we have if someone has focused on the victims. If there are gaps where consideration for the criminal is above consideration for the victim, we must do everything we can to ensure that those gaps are closed. You shouldn't be able to make money from your crimes while you're in prison. It is a blatant violation of the sense of justice. Having said that, I would also like to say that let us put cold water in our blood so that we can examine the area first and see how far we can go instead of rushing through something which may prove to be contrary to the Constitution. So let us instead make an agreement that we examine how far we can go and then act accordingly. That's the right order to do it in. So, while we understand the intentions of the resolution, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131935	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412131948	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their comments. I can see that there is broad support for at least the signal in this proposal, and you must always wear the yeshat and try to be a little bit positive, although I can figure it out, spoken in terms of mandates, that the proposal may not go through in this round. But I think the issue is important. I think that we are getting a society in which the glorification of some of the hardest criminals is a disgrace to the victims or the relatives and survivors who are left powerless and who have lost or been harmed by some people of whom they care incredibly much, by someone who then achieves a particular kind of celebrity. That person should basically go into oblivion, shouldn't have a name, but that's rarely the case. And I imagine it must be incredibly intimidating to stand back and look at that person having the opportunity today to tell us about the atrocities that have been committed. We cannot limit that, and we should not limit it, because it is a question of freedom of expression, and that is provided for by the Constitution. However, I think we can discuss whether, as a person who has committed serious crime, one is in a situation where one should be allowed to withdraw money from taking freedom, ability or life from other people. I think that is quite real. This proposal hasn't come out of nothing. In other Western countries, there are rules in this area, and that is in view of the fact that very violent crimes have been committed, from which there is no desire for people to sit and withdraw money. I know you have these rules in both the United States and Australia, and I think there is a great deal of understanding for you, for example. in Norway has had this debate over recent years in the light of the two major terrorist attacks by the same person who hit Norway a few years ago. I would understand if family members were left after the massacre that it really was, and thought, "Oh, my gosh, should this person be allowed to make money on having taken some of the most precious thing?" I have to say that I understand that discussion and I understand that there are people who want to act on it, and so do I myself. That is why we have tabled this proposal. However, there have been various stories about this proposal, and a few of them I would like to address here. There are some places where it is claimed that the proposal intends to take freedom of expression from people. I do not think there is any party that is more concerned with preserving people's freedom of expression than the Danish People's Party. This is not about freedom of expression; it is about whether you should be allowed to make money by committing something that is very, very violent. And that is also why we very explicitly and clearly, even in the first paragraph of the proposal, indicate that, if there were a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution, the legislative proposal that the government might have to draw up must, of course, be in accordance with our constitution. It's quite natural. Nor would the Danish People's Party be able to vote in favour of a bill which turned out to be contrary to the Constitution. That would be a problem. I don't suppose any party would approve of that. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, in his rapporteur's speech, makes a few comments on the proposal, and I will only acknowledge the last of Mr Søndergaard's remarks. Søren Søndergaard's alleged problems with the proposal. And that is what is right, namely that the proposal states that, if it is adopted here, the government will be obliged to put forward a bill in this Assembly. In fact, I think there is a great deal of understanding that if there were a majority in favour of the motion for a resolution, the government would hardly be able to achieve it meaningfully in this House. So I can reassure Mr. Søren Søndergaard quite agree that if we were to be in a situation where there were 90 mandates to adopt the proposal, we would like to make a proposal and of course do it again so that the government could have time for the work it would require to draw up a proper legislative proposal. But I actually think it is also telling that a specific book was mentioned in the rapporteur's speech. And according to my information, that book was written while on the run from the authorities, i.e. during a period of attempts to evade punishment. Is that really the good example? This is an example in which a person is actually trying to avoid punishment. Is this going to serve as a good example in this debate? Honestly, I find it very difficult to understand the reasonableness of that, I have to say. So you can publish books, you can express yourself in the public debate, you can use all the tools that are available, but you can't expect it to be okay to make money from it. So we're gonna put the money in the victim fund? That is what our proposal says. Yes, I think that would be appropriate. For example: Preben Bang Henriksen suggests that you could throw the money into the treasury. Well, we can have that discussion. We just think that the victim fund is the natural place to put the money, and by the way, it might be a box that might need a little more flow. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132529	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132531	Well, when the Danish People's Party makes this kind of proposal, I think there's only one idea in it if it's clear what the party thinks. And what the party believes is that you should not sit in prison and make money writing books that will then be published. But we can now hear that it also includes not writing books before they have been convicted and before they have gone to prison. If some people just have an opinion that you are guilty, that's probably because that's what was the case with Jønke; so, in fact, it could have been some kind of operation that some had initiated, and then he just took the trash by claiming it was he who had done it, and then disappear abroad, while somebody else could walk freely around. This could theoretically be the case, and it could theoretically be the case that he had been acquitted later. We also have another example: Jan Bonde Nielsen, who published a book, first called "Judged" and later called "Freed." I think he also escaped punishment by staying in Britain. So what does the proposal include? Does the proposal include it? It is the questions that arise when Mr. Peter Kofod speaks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132648	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132650	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. That is a question I would like to answer. When I say that the case, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself mentioned on the platform, is a bad example, so it's because I don't think it's a very good example to use when it comes to people who are on the run. But yes, the proposal here is of course about doomed, but we have outlined a concrete example in the sense that we have here a situation in which a person is subsequently convicted and publishes a book. Yeah, he wrote it earlier, but he's convicted of crime. So I don't understand the break zone here. But it may be, sir. Søren Søndergaard will use his second round to explain what the problem is, because I didn't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132734	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132735	This proposal, which is to be implemented, includes, for example: Jan Bonde Nielsen's book "Judged" that was published in his day? It's a relevant question because he was convicted. Admittedly, later he was acquitted. Does the proposal include this book? Does this suggestion include Jønke's book "My Second Life? " In other words, the legislation must be fairly clear, and that is why it must be clear what this includes. Or is this only true when you're in prison? There's a difference between that, sir. Peter Kofod stands on the platform and says what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132817	No, that is, if you publish the book when you are in prison, you are convicted, and then the content of the proposal will apply. Well, then it will be the case that the earnings that might be to the person who wrote it, i.e.. The criminal in this relationship will walk to the victim fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132834	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132849	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412132906	Let me say from the outset that, like the authors of the motion, I am very much in favour of anpg as a tool for the police. Basically, I believe that the police must have the best possible tools to combat crime. And one of the tools is certainly anpg, which has generally made work easier for Danish police, and which has proved to be an effective tool within e.g. the fight against cross-border organised crime. That is precisely why, after discussions in the police conciliation circle, the government has already expanded the number of both stationary and mobile anpg cameras, so that today there are 48 stationary anpg locations around the country, among others. at all border crossings to Germany which can be crossed by car. In addition, there are cameras for 70 patrol vehicles. The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party, which we are discussing here today, is then intended to require the government of this Assembly to extend the rules for storing anpg data. The proposers want the government to significantly extend the period during which the police can store data collected with police anpg cameras so that the police have access to this data at a later stage, for example. if the police find out that the information in a case of serious crime may be relevant to the further investigation. Today it is the case that the police have to delete information about the license plates not already known in the anpg system after 24 hours, but if the information has been collected as part of a targeted police intervention it could, for example. be related to burglar crime in a special area so that the information can be stored for 30 days. Is that enough? Again, it is a matter for me that the police must have the best possible tools to carry out their work. That is why I am also fundamentally in favour of measures to strengthen the police's ability to combat crime. Having said that, it is also a question of finding the right balance in relation to what makes sense to the police. After all, it is not free to make a significant change in the time limits that the proposers want, and in any case how such expenditure should be dealt with will have to be considered. In addition, the rules should be amended in a proper way, which of course also requires public consultation, and finally, a concrete model for extending the time limits for deleting the data protection rules would also have to be considered further. It is therefore my view that it will not be possible to amend the deletion deadlines as requested by the proposers of this Assembly. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133155	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133157	Thank you. I fully agree with that with the current period of the proposal. I totally agree with that. I mean, of course the government can't do the big thing right now. But I'd like to know what the government's position on these erase deadlines is. Because there's going to be a little circle around the hot porridge. I just think it's honest to tell you which way you want to take this. I have to admit, I think that 30 days sounds very short when you know that, for example. is 1 year in Great Britain. After all, the minister himself emphasizes in his ministerial speech that it is a good tool for the police and much will be done to provide the police with the best tools. So where is this going to be optimally for the minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133241	First of all, I believe that we need to have a thorough discussion with the police. Well, I fully agree that it is not possible to discuss whether it has been a useful tool for the police. But the art is, of course, how much or how little we need. And if we start to change erasing times, what will it cost, and what added value will it bring to the police? So before we start to say whether there should be more of that, I think there are a lot of things we should have done first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133311	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133314	Thank you for a fine and balanced, data-conscious speech from the Minister. I think there is, in fact, another argument that could be taken along. As I read the legislation, if there has been a hit on a license plate scan, you can actually store that data for up to 2 years and not just 30 days, if I have read correctly then if there has been a hit on a license plate scan. In my view, it is just very much in support of the fact that there are actually quite strong tools today to help the police in their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133346	It's a little technical if I'm going to go all the way down to the detail of this. So I would actually like to ask a written question. However, the erasing deadlines depend primarily on whether or not there is information about vehicles known in police systems. If they are not known, it is up to 30 days that you can save it, if it is collected for a specific purpose, in connection with a particular action. And if it's free patrol, it's max. 24 hours. However, information about the vehicles that are then known in the system can be stored by the police between three months and two years, as mentioned, depending on the crime involved. So it simply goes too far to unfold it here, but I also understood the question as if it were more to show the scope of what one can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133441	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133442	That was exactly the scope, so it can actually go up to 2 years depending on the degree of data you find.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133453-2	Yes, and that is also why, of course, we need to look at what is needed and how to do it. For an anpg location, just to mention it, records in the vicinity of 900,000 readings per month. And, of course, if you're going to change this, there's also an economic factor we're going to have to look at, beyond what else we can discuss about data and data protection, and what the police should have of opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133521	We thank the Minister and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133528	Number plate scanners are a very good and important tool for combating crime, and this is also the reason why we, the Social Democrats, have been asking for both several license plate scanners for a long time, in fact during successive ministers, and also for the extension of the erasing deadlines. That is why the proposal here also provides a good opportunity to review the socialist line. Technology is good when it works, and we must dare to use technology where it makes sense, and it also includes license plate scanners. That is not to say that we want a mass surveillance society. It is not the intention that ordinary citizens should feel monitored wherever they go, but we cannot get around that, and that is also what we have been told when we have visited the special investigation units with the Legal Affairs Committee that license plate scanners can be an essential tool in the police investigation of crime, ranging from solving murder cases to investigating foreign organized thieves. That is why our call to the Minister of Justice today is the same as it has been for a long time: let us ensure that individual police circles are given the means to set up license plate scanners where it makes sense. Let's make sure they're on the police cars. It's only a very small number of police cars today equipped with license plate scanners because they're really useful when it comes to fighting crime. The specific resolution here today is about extending the period during which the police can store data coming out of license plate scanners. And, as previous rapporteurs also mentioned, today there are different erasing periods, depending on whether they are priority areas and particularly interesting people. But it also means that data that may have a decisive impact on police investigations may be deleted before they are used. And it's really, really a shame if data from license plate scanners, for example, could have been used to solve an Emilie Meng murder. This cannot be done, partly because there have been no license plate scanners set up in those places, partly because data would also have been deleted before they could be checked. That's why we think this is an area we need to look at. We ourselves have suggested that a court order could be introduced so that when you have access to this information, it should be done with a court order. As we understood when we presented this proposal, the Minister of Justice wanted to investigate this and proceed with it. We must then note that we have not really heard anything since we presented this proposal 11⁄2 years ago, I think. That is also why we support the proposal here today. It is in order to give it a little impetus, because it is therefore important that we take advantage of the opportunities offered by the license plate scanners and that we provide the police with better tools in relation to the erasing deadlines, and that we do so with a balance which ensures that you cannot sit in the local police office and watch the ex-wife go shopping. No one is interested in that, but we need to use it to solve serious crime. And that is why we support the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133911	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133914	The part of the Socialist rapporteur's speech which referred to a court order for access to data, I think there can certainly be some music in it that can be discussed. But is the Socialist rapporteur's speech to be understood in such a way that, in principle, it is believed that the data collected can be preserved forever?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412133938	No, we don't think so. We need to find a better balance. It could be 3 months, it could be 1⁄2 years, it could be up to 1 year. I do not want to dwell on that, but this is the discussion we have been calling for and which we had actually understood that the Ministry of Justice took care of when we made this proposal on the court orders. I also think that the proposal for a court order is a very good proposal, and it is not just that we have made it ourselves. Where I can see it has some limitations is when it comes to the scanners with which the police cars are equipped. They're bouncing out if the police car, for example, drives past a car that's wanted for one reason or another. It could be that this car is wanted in connection with a child abduction. Then you lose the good tool as it is when it gives a hit immediately today, compared to if you first need a warrant. We must, of course, be careful that this does not mean that something that is really useful for dealing with urgent matters will be destroyed with court orders. I think it is certainly interesting to examine whether it can be used in some areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134047	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134048	However, would the Socialist rapporteur not agree that the tragic examples mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur of murder cases which remain unsolved because of the deletion of something that could have led to a clarification will be the case, regardless of the length of time allowed? In other words, the moment you delete, there is a potential risk of deleting some information that could be crucial to resolving a case. And it will also apply if it is 3 months or 6 months or 1 year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134123	Yes, and that is the case in all areas. I do not believe that everything should be kept in the hands of the authorities forever, but that can give the police better conditions for solving crime. Right now it is a massive race against time because in some cases they have very, very short erase deadlines, and there might be reason to extend them to 3 months or 1⁄2 years. As I said, I am not going to lay down what it should be, but at least more than one month.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134153	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134156	Thank you for that and thank you for the commitment of the Socialist rapporteur to support the proposal. Of course, I'm glad. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the dilemma. Sir. Søren Søndergaard mentioned it a little bit, but I think it is a discussion worth taking, because on the one hand we have an incredibly effective tool that can really change the way the police work on these things, and on the other hand there are also ethical considerations. However, the Socialist rapporteur specifically mentioned the judicial orders. I'd like to know where the lower bar should be. Because it can be said that the current rules allow for up to 30 days to actually be able to search for information about license plate data and store them, and the police can use it without a warrant. Does the Socialist Group believe that if, on the one hand, we extend the deadline for storing all the information, it will require that the bar be pulled down for when a court order is required?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134259	That is exactly what I think is the inherent dilemma in this discussion, and that is also why I can probably stand here and have a political position on it, but I think we are actually dealing with an area where it is more fair to clarify it with the participation of both the police and some of the stakeholders who are dealing with the issues of data retention and storage. I think that is the most fair and real way to deal with this issue. Because we are in a border area which is about increased powers, but vice versa also about the good use of technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134339	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134341	I mean, every time I drive past a license plate scanner, I'm excited and I think about how this license plate scanner could potentially help to hold hard-boiled criminals to account at some point. So I would like to ask the rapporteur 'for the Minister was kind enough to list how many scanners we have around the House about the Social Democrats, if they now win the next election against expectation, then will invest actively in putting many more license plate scanners out in the police districts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134410	We think it is a good and useful tool, and something we have actually proposed in several rounds is that we are not just sitting here at Christiansborg and pointing out that now we need license plate scanners here and there and everywhere, but that we are making a pool from which the police circles, who want more license plate scanners, can pick up money, and then they can still be the professionals who assess where it makes sense to set them up and where it makes no sense to set them up. For it is a sincere desire from a great many police circles, but they do not have the economy to buy them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134444	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134445	I was actually just surprised that the Social Democratic Party supported the proposal and then I went to read it again. It actually says that the resolution must ensure that there is a debate, a dialogue about an extension. And that's probably the extension thing. If there had now been an improvement in the way we do it, I would have been more understanding, but I should also remember what I was saying a moment ago in the field of industry from the SF, where there was also a soft formulation, and where I actually said that we could do that. Now I am trying to read it here from the Social Democratic Party as positively as possible: it is the intention that we can take part in a dialogue in which a court order can be made, but it is therefore accepted that there is an extension that must be in play. And that's what I'm gonna ask you about. Is it necessarily the right thing to do, even on the basis of the remarks made by the rapporteur? Are we sure this is an extension? I mean, it's an improvement, yes, I totally agree, but is it an extension when we can go up to 2 years? My next question will then be: is what the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said forever? I do not hear the rapporteur say that, but it is an improvement, is it not necessarily an extension?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134553	Well, it's actually an extension, because what the police are asking for when they get hold of, for example. An organized thief who travels all over the country and breaks into people's homes is that when they get hold of them, they want to be able to go back in time so as to be more accountable to this thief for its atrocities. And if they can only go back one month then they can, even if they have an idea that it is the same thieves who have housed all over the country, so they can not go back and prove that they have been specific places with the help of license plate scanners. In fact, we believe that they need more time and space to go back. So yes, we support an extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134642	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134643	My comment to the Minister before was that we actually have the opportunity to go as far as 2 years back today, so if you talk about 30 days, I understand that you want to level it. But there is an opportunity to go as far as 2 years. I do not know whether it solves the problem, but it is there that I think it is interesting to see how we can improve the range, how we assess it best, how we can allow it to go further than 30 days in just the right situations. My question actually came mainly because I could not just see the Social Democrats supporting this almost potentially endless acceptance of the proposal, but that is not quite what I hear the rapporteur say either. But I actually thought it sounded like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134724	No, it is not an endless acceptance. It can also be said that this is a motion for a resolution here, and on the back of it lies a political debate, a debate, and there will have to be potentially some legislation giving these powers. But we hear from the police that there are cases where you can't use more than one month's old recordings, and that's what we want to address, because there have also been stories that the police are still storing data, and if you take the matter into your own hands with the authorities and use data that are too old, I think it's almost worse than we on the part of the Folketing are prolonging. In fact, I think we have a duty to listen to it, because then the tool is not good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134813	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no more brief comments. And then we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412134820	Yes, it is always an unpleasant question to be asked such a month before an election what your party will do if you come to government yourself. But I think you have to get used to that here. However, the proposal we are debating today deals with the question of the deadlines for storing license plate data, and it is quite correct, as Mrs Trine Bramsen said, that this is one of the best tools we have been told when we have visited the police and that they are incredibly pleased with automatic license plate recognition. And it helps solve a lot of crimes and get a lot of criminals. It is a modern technology that we would like to help use on the Left side. Today, as far as I can tell, there are 48 stationary and mobile cameras and 70 in cars. If you need more, then we'll take a positive look at it as well. And that is where we are at the heart of the matter. I don't know how many cameras are needed to take that as an example. I don't know if the police's efforts will be much better if you get more cameras. Nor am I aware of the length of time allowed for deletion. I would like to hear the police's view of this rather than the fact that we are sitting here in the Folketing to find out how much time the police need in order to solve various crimes. There may be different erasing times, i.e. the usual erasing time of 24 hours, and there may be additional deletion times that we have mentioned here. I would also like to hear the judge's view of the concept of a court order. It's a concept that we're really nice to use in here at Christiansborg. We'd like a warrant, but no one really cares what that judge has to think about. And it's probably very logical that you don't think about it, because in 99 percent. of those cases where you want what is called edition, so information about telephone intercepts and the like, yes, you get a say in it. So it's pretty easy to get these warrants today. And I'm just gonna have to ask you about a suggestion like this: when a judge is a judge we're gonna have to get over here and assess these situations, is that a common suspicion, a confirmed suspicion, a specially confirmed suspicion, or what is it that needs to be? We are not going to discuss it here today, but it is just an argument on my part that this proposal, as it were, deserves to be dealt with, both by the police, where we should ask: what is it that you are missing; what can it help you to do? I think they have more experience in this than we do. However, I can say that we in the Left are in favour of such a demand. But until then, we're rejecting this. However, as I have said, we are no more dismissive than that if there is evidence from the experts, yes, we will be happy to re-evaluate our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135130	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135132	Well, now I'm getting curious, for sir. Preben Bang Henriksen started his speech by saying that you should be careful what you put people in view right here before an election, if you now took over power. And I'd like to ask Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is now before us a choice, and there is also the chance that the Left will be able to retain power if the Danes want to do so. So, can the Danes expect significantly more license plate scanners after a parliamentary election if, after the election, the Prime Minister is still named Lars Løkke Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135205	The Danes can expect us to listen to those who know it. And in this case, of course, with the number of license plate scanners, we listen to what comes from the National Police, and if they say that they can achieve significantly better results with more license plate scanners, and that is what they need, yes, then you can expect a positive attitude from a future Left Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135224	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135225	So that is to say, it is just equal, so I understand that there was no clear-cut statement on the part of the Left as well as on the part of the Socialist Group. But does the Left basically believe that it is the National Police Commissioner who should decide this, and not a majority in the Folketing, in other words what the restrictions on the use of data by the police should be? I do not think so; that is to say, I think it is a majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135248	The National Police Commissioner doesn't rank higher than the Folketing, I can say that right away. But I guess it's no different than listening to expertise. Let's take a thoughtful example where the police say they don't need a camera at all anymore. Well, then, damn it, we in the Danish Parliament are going to pass 200 more cameras to the police. That would be crazy. So, yes, we listen to the expertise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135308	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135319	Thank you. Now I was a little harsh on the Danish People's Party under the previous paragraph in relation to the quality of the proposal, which is why I would like to start by saying that I think the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Danish People's Party to extend the period during which the authorities must keep collected data on citizens is entirely coherent and totally logical. So there should be no evil word about the proposal; we just disagree with the content. For in general, we in the Enhedslisten are concerned about mass gathering and storing information about random and, as a starting point, completely innocent citizens in Denmark, that is, what is popularly called megadata. We believe that the citizens of our society must be able to move freely in public spaces without being monitored and without being registered. Then, of course, there are exceptions to that. And we recognize that; it may be necessary. And when this can and must happen in these particular cases, we believe that strict rules are needed, firstly, what information can be used for, secondly, who should have access to this information, and thirdly, how long the information should be able to be stored. I think that reading the proposal clearly does not appear to be the starting point for the proposers, on the contrary. This is clear from the comments made on the motion for a resolution, in which, among other things, it says: states: "The proposers want the government to significantly extend the period during which the police can store data so that the police have access to data at a later stage, if you get to know, for example. serious crime or the like, where the data collected may be of crucial importance for the further investigation. I mean, I think it's very precise. But with that argument, there is just no delineation! Because there will always be a situation where, in order to use the words of the proposal, people get to know, for example. serious crime or similar, where the data collected may be of crucial importance for the further investigation. This situation can always be imagined. So when you talk about 3 months, it's pepper nuts; it could be 6 months, 12 months, 5 years, 50 years, always. And I am actually surprised that such a proposal has not been made. So, in general, I think that the authors of this argument are perhaps a little unambitious. I remember we had a discussion many, many years ago here in Parliament on exactly the same subject... it wasn't license plate scanners, but it was another form of surveillance. And one of the suggestions that came out was that you could simply invent a chip in all children, newborn babies, so a small GPS transmitter that had access to a central register, so that you could continuously determine where all citizens in Denmark had been when. And with such a relatively small and innocent intervention, which would never ever affect any innocent citizens, it would have no negative consequences... we would be able to solve 99.9999 per cent. of all crimes where there is a physical crime scene. We can simply walk into the crime scene afterwards and see who has been there and when. Boom, it's settled. Isn't it a promise to be able to solve virtually every crime? The proposal is, of course, in the hands of the proposers, but I think it is also necessary to discuss it in relation to the cost of such proposals, just as, of course, we must also discuss the cost of maintaining an unlimited number of data for an unlimited amount of time, of which the vast majority of data subjects are citizens who have not done anything. In relation to the resolution before us, we simply do not believe that the proposal is documenting or merely, for that matter, suggesting enough positive effects to offset the negative effects of the significantly prolonged retention period for surveillance data on random citizens. We would very much like to discuss during the committee's proceedings whether there should be individual areas of interest, with input from the police, where a very short retention period is inappropriate when it comes to solving specific crimes. However, we cannot under any circumstances support an entirely general and significant extension of storage deadlines for megadata.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135843	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135845	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I don't think I've ever suggested putting a chip under people's skin. I think that would be too much. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. If Enhedslisten had been able to determine this policy even with these erasers, where would we have been? Because I don't think there was such a balance of what would be the perfect thing for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412135912	First of all, I can confirm that the chip thing is not a proposal, as Mr. Peter Kofod has set. Maybe you should think about it. Because it will really be able to solve all crimes where there is a physical crime scene. Compared to the other, I feel just like the Left. I can't tell you exactly where it's supposed to be. That place is probably also changing in relation to different perceptions in society and especially in relation to what the police think is necessary. I don't want to fix it. But what I promised was that in committee we could invite the police in so that we could look into whether there are any quite inappropriate short deadlines which prevent concrete investigation work. And then we'll look at it positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140003	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140004	It is good that we have agreed that I have never been in favour of putting a chip in people. That's not necessary either. Today, everyone has cell phones. What we can then discuss in this context is how much private organisations should be allowed to do, or companies that really want to make money on us. How far should they be allowed to go when they follow us, because they do, by means of our telephones? And what is the right of the state that has been set up to protect us? But that's not really what I wanted to talk about. We can take this at a later stage, just as I am pleased that we can also talk about it here in committee. But I'd like to ask Mr. Søren Søndergaard about something. When Enhedslisten is having trouble with e.g. monitoring this kind of thing, is it because you have a suspicion that the police are going to use this information in the wrong way or are going to offend citizens consciously?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140054	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140057	In other words, wherever there is a register, there is a risk of abuse. It could be people who penetrate it: hackers, malicious criminals. They could be stingy vessels in the police department. Wherever there is a register, there is a risk of abuse. That is why our starting point is that it should only be where it is necessary. It is then a balance, and I have mentioned what balance we want with it. May I just say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that what we are talking about, and that is also a problem, is that it hits the stupid criminal. Because the smart criminal doesn't take out his cell phone when he's on thieves. You leave it at home. So crime can still be committed, but the chip cannot think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140145	So enlightened. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur. Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140153	Sir. Peter Kofod said earlier in his question to Mrs Trine Bramsen • I think that is quite right quoted: I will be so happy every time I drive past a license plate scanner. Then I just want to say that I don't, actually not at all. I really like the feeling of being able to move freely and, in particular, to be free from surveillance. At the same time, I am not blind to the fact that license plate scanners can be or are good tools for police investigation of crime. That's why they have them. That's how far we agree. But the data generated by the license plate scanners must be carefully processed. Most data is deleted after 24 hours, if they do not hit a so-called hit, in relation to whether they belong to a car in which the police somehow have an interest. And if there are good reasons to save data any longer, then there is option for it. Now the Danish People's Party says that there is a need for an extension of the erasing deadlines, i.e. of the rules. I disagree that there is a need for this, and I also believe that reality demonstrates that there is no such need. Because there was a period I think it was 6 months time a few years ago when the police didn't follow the current rules. One came to that I think it wasn't deliberate abuse or anything like that to store some data generated by license plate scanners for 60 days, although one was allowed to store them only for 30 days. Did you use that data for something? No, you didn't. There was not a single search in the data which was stored for 30 days too long. And if there had been a very great need in the police to be able to store them in, for example. 60 days instead of 30 days, they probably had used them in the time when they had the data. They didn't. Then the previous speaker from the Enhedslisten asked Mr. Peter Kofod about something, namely that if you are opposed to it here, it is related to the fact that in general you have a mistrust of the police or suspect the police that you will deliberately misuse data. No, I don't suspect that, not at all, and we don't have any reason for that either. The point is, there's a vulnerability. The more data it may be the police, it may be other authorities have about us each, the greater the risk of leak, unconscious leak; it may also be foreign powers that hack in and abuse data in a completely different context than what they were actually intended. So, yeah, digitization is good. Digitalisation also provides the police with good tools for solving crime. However, the data they have must be used wisely, and I see no reason to extend the police's erase deadlines to the data generated by license plate scanners. So we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140505	Imagine if there are cases where the Danish People's Party's proposals here would actually be very useful; think if there are actually cases today, where the police need to have a longer period to solve the cases; well then we'll have to look at it. There are rapporteurs who have said in the past that you would actually like to go into it, while at the same time you are actually opposed to the wording of this proposal. In my view, this proposal opens up a slippery slope in that it states that the deadlines should simply be extended. That is the last word in the motion for a resolution. We cannot accept that in the alternative. We want to help improve the way data storage is done today, but we disagree with the fact that the time limit should be extended. I have previously commented in the debate on the possibility of actually saving data from license plate scans for up to 2 years. That's not the norm, but you actually can if it's a license plate that's had a hit in the past. So let us have a debate about when there is a need to store our data in a way that the police can use them even better than today. We want to be a part of that. This is also one of the joys of the fact that a data-ethical council has just been set up. A few years ago, we began to discuss even more the need for a data-ethical advice and ethics than before here in the Danish Parliament. Then there's been a job. The government has set up a committee. In the alternative, we made a proposal to set up a data-ethical council. That was our proposal, but there are probably others here on the planet who have talked about that it could be a sensible idea, in other words different organisations over time. However, it is gratifying that there has now been some data-ethical advice. Now we have to see if these are the sort of matters that will also be looked at there and that we will have to listen to a little more in this Chamber. Because when you just say that this part-out must be extended, at least here we come from political teams to speak against many of the experts who sit out in the Danish country and look at what we sit and legislate about in here. They say that this is not the way to be respectful about the Danes' data and freedom, so just to say that they partout must be extended if it is basically some small special manoeuvres that need to be made in order to solve the task better with the police. So we are against the proposal. So are Radical Left and SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140727	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140735	Anpg, automatic license plate recognition, is, after all, an important tool for the police, and this has proved particularly important in the fight against cross-border crime. We agree with the proposers that cross-border crime should be combated. That is why, in cooperation, we have also strengthened our efforts on the border in the last financial law. We have allocated 95 million. kr. for exceptional interventions in border areas, including border controls. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have strengthened airport control and set aside 2 million. kr. Annually up to 2022 for several sample checks. We also want to control our borders, and we also want to combat cross-border crime. Therefore, the police must have the best possible tools to carry out their work. But changing the erasers that the Danish People's Party wants is not something you just do from one day to the next. There are several rules to take into account, including the rules on data protection. There is a need for a longer discussion before changes are made to the notice. The Conservative People's Party sympathises with the proposal, but we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140858	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412140916	Thank you. After all, we are living in an amazing time when technological opportunities have never been better and developments have never gone faster. And in many ways it's a privilege. It is also when it comes to the way to combat crime, which most of us will probably be afraid at some point to be struck by or to which no one hopes that their loved ones will ever be exposed. That is also the case when it comes to license plate scanning, which has proved to be an extremely effective tool. Earlier this season, we asked the Minister a number of committee questions to find out how other countries store and use these data. And it was quite clear quickly, unfortunately, that Denmark is not a very ambitious country, and I always think that Denmark should be an ambitious country and a frontrunner at all levels, even when it comes to this. And there we could see that Britain has a different course in this area than we have in Denmark. There you have chosen to bet massively on having many scanners, and you have chosen to bet on having a very, very long time when the police can store the data and freely access them without any kind of warrant. Basically, I think that is very, very sensible. I do not think it is wrong to say that every time the Committee on Legal Affairs is visiting around the police circle and talking to officers who work with it on a daily basis, and when the question is what we can do to make their work easier, it is very often, perhaps always, that this is brought up as a theme, something that some people are asking for, because it will make work a little easier or a little faster or a little more efficient. I think you should notice and take with you that we have this opportunity. An alternative solution was proposed from the platform, which, on the one hand, raises the bar for how long we have to store the data and, on the other hand, says that perhaps a little less will have to be done before we have to ask for a court order. And there was also discussion of what a warrant really is and whether it makes sense. In other words, we think that what would make sense was that the time that the police must retain or retain the data was greatly extended, and then we could discuss whether a restriction should be imposed at some point, so that only the more serious cases are pursued, and perhaps there should be a judge who nods if there is a specific situation where there is a particular desire for it. But we have no desire to drag this down, we have a desire to pull it up very much in the direction of Britain's course. So I think an extension is an improvement. I also believe that, in general, when we discuss monitoring, which is also included in the proposal, we should consider who is watching us. I think the experience is that when we are discussing these things in Parliament and this is about police and intelligence, there is a huge focus on the fact that it would almost be an attack on citizens and that it would be awful to have a little surveillance when it is the state that does, but that when Internet giants located in the United States do so, it is not something we are discussing at all. It is even surveillance that we carry around in our pockets all the time, watching us because you want to sell ads because you want to make money. It is not so controversial, but when you do it because you want to keep society safe, it is apparently extremely controversial. I've never understood that distinction. I think it should be completely the opposite, that we should go a long way to ensure that our authorities were allowed to keep our society safe, and be much more on their toes with Internet gigglers • many of them do not even want to pay taxes or contribute to society. They were the ones we were to take the hard course against, not the authorities that keep society free from crime. Finally, when it was discussed whether this should come up in the Data-Ethical Council, I would say that it is possible to do so. The Danish People's Party is the only party that has not nodded to the idea of the Dataetic Council, and the reason for this is that we do not need taste judges to tell us what we might think about data security or the storage of Danes' information. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141342	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141346	There is one question and then a praise, and the rose I will just take in question number two. As far as data-ethical advice is concerned, it may be one body, but in general it is possible to talk about the experts who have an opinion on it, and with regard to this proposal I would like to ask the rapporteur: is there a limit? I am sure that the rapporteur's mind will also be able to do so. But is there a limit to when we have to stop listening to the needs of, for example, the police? It could also be a need of a company in the business sector to be able to store something for a very long time, if we ethically and morally and in relation to the fact that we want to have some data principles, can see that it cannot be defended? It is certainly not the case that the rapporteur, in his speech, emphasizes that there may be a stop somewhere. But what does the rapporteur think about this? Is there such a stop? That's one of them. What you can discuss when you talk data ethics.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141445	Yes, of course there's a stop. That is quite clear. You shouldn't keep information forever and forever. So where do I think you should put this stop? In principle, I am open to any progress in this area. Do I think we should move further than Britain? Because, as I understand from the Minister's reply, the policy in Britain was to keep all the information for up to one year. So it was not just those who gave a hit, of the information that Mr. René Gade emphasized, which was kept for 2 years, but it was all information that was allowed to be kept for 1 year. I think that is actually fair enough. But it goes without saying that there is, of course, a restriction. If the alternative came in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and said that the limit should be three months, would I vote against it? No, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141536	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141539	I again recognise, as I did from the platform: let us look at the concrete examples. We want to help improve the way the police can use data. The last one was just a compliment. How refreshing it is to get the perspective of how we are being monitored as individuals by large companies. I pay tribute to many large companies for creating growth and momentum and new opportunities, services, but it is striking that we do not have a greater focus on what we actually allow them to do when, as the rapporteur also says, and in my view, we are so constructively justified sceptical about what we allow the state to monitor. So let us also get the debate on the other. I think that the debate here is important in that we must not create a surveillance society on the part of the state, but, on the other hand, we must have confidence that the state will do well. It's one of the things that gives coherence at home in Denmark. So points for that nuance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141627	Thank you. I can say that exactly that distinction I think we agree entirely with in the Danish People's Party and the alternative. It is not because the state must have all the information, but I think it really is thought-provoking that there are certainly tech giants who know more about Mr. René Gade and myself and all other Danes than the state necessarily does, and who will be able to target things much more directly to us as individuals than could be done by the state. That's creepy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141657	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod as rapporteur for the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141711	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412141724	Thank you. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wants to impose border controls on the government on the border between Denmark and Sweden. The Danish People's Party justifies, among other things: the proposal that there should be control over who and what comes into Denmark, according to the same model as already known from border controls against Germany. In the comments to the proposal, the Danish People's Party highlights a number of the results achieved with border controls between Denmark and Germany and points out among other things. the number of weapons seized, the number of persons refused, the number of charges made in relation, inter alia, to the number of weapons seized, the number of persons refused, the number of arrests made in relation to the number of persons seized. trafficking in human beings, possession of weapons and drug trafficking. In addition, the Danish People's Party points out that the Swedish authorities have released four men convicted of terrorist attempts against targets in Denmark, as well as reference is made to the terrorist attack that took place in Stockholm in April 2017 and that was carried out by a rejected asylum seeker. I would like to start by stating that the government is very concerned about ensuring that Denmark is a safe and secure society to live in. The government has therefore also implemented a number of initiatives over recent years, including: in border areas, with the aim of strengthening the security and security of citizens. One of the initiatives, as you know, is that over the last three years the government has found it necessary to have border controls at border crossings with Germany. For although we are currently experiencing very, very low entry and asylum figures in Denmark, it is important to bear in mind that there is still pressure on Europe's external borders and also an increased risk of asylum seekers moving through the countries of Europe without a residence permit and against Denmark. At the same time, the terrorist threat against Denmark remains serious. The Government has therefore informed the Commission today that Denmark still considers it necessary to maintain border controls at the borders with Germany for a further six months. Denmark is not alone in these challenges. France, Sweden and Austria have also chosen to maintain their temporary border controls and Danish border controls are carried out in close coordination with other countries. In this context, I am also very pleased to note that the Danish People's Party agrees with the government that control at the Danish-German border actually makes a difference. In the period we have been through, as I have said, weapons have been seized and almost 8 000 people have been rejected. Therefore, in the situation that has prevailed over the last three years, border controls against Germany have also been a necessary but also an important tool. At the same time, however, it is important for me to stress that the government is fundamentally in favour of Schengen cooperation and also of free movement across Europe. This also means that we constantly assess the need to adapt police action at the border. Basically, the government is concerned that we are implementing the necessary initiatives, which are at the same time most effective. When it comes to the question of border controls, its introduction must, in the first place, depend on whether or not the Schengen acquis is actually met. The Danish authorities therefore regularly assess the current threat picture and the terrorist threat to Denmark. The current assessment by the National Police is that there is no need to introduce temporary border controls at borders other than at sea and land borders to Germany, but that obviously does not mean that we cannot look at initiatives other than precisely border controls. That's one of them. also the reason why the Danish police are continuously carrying out controls in the border area to Sweden. In addition, there is close and also very good cooperation between the police in Denmark and the police in Sweden. So, even if not at the moment. is the basis for introducing border controls against Sweden, that does not mean that the police are not present, actually quite the opposite. In conclusion, the government fully shares the Danish People's Party's objective of securing a secure and secure Denmark. However, in the present situation there is therefore no basis for introducing border controls against Sweden, and the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142237	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142246	Thank you. It is, of course, good that the government and the minister have announced today that Denmark is extending border controls against Germany, and I assume that this is the case, for example, because it works quite well, and if it works in one place it will work elsewhere. I have, of course, heard what the Minister says from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, but why does it not really want to have the good experience of the Danish-German border control, where we reject people who would not have been rejected if it were not for us to have Danish officials, police and homeguards, etc. Then they were almost 8,000 people who did not have the documents in order, of course, just got into Denmark. After all, there is reason to believe that the same will apply in relation to Sweden. Does the Minister agree that if border controls are introduced on the Danish-Swedish border, all other things being equal will mean that people who do not want legal access to Denmark will be rejected there too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142345	There are several things to say about that. Firstly, on the basis of both open and closed sources, we are assessing whether there is a basis for introducing border controls, just as we are doing in relation to the Danish-German border. If it turns out that there is actually pressure on the border between Denmark and Sweden similar to what we see from Germany to Denmark, then the situation will be different. However, it is logical that, if we close the border in a point of order, we will catch everyone, that, if we carry out random checks, we will catch a little less, that if we carry out risk-based checks, then perhaps we will catch the same number as we do at random, because it is based on the same thing, and that, if we do not carry out border controls, we will only catch those we are watching in some way. Having said that, it is just important to say that the Danish and Swedish police are working together on these things, and that the pressure on the border between Sweden and Denmark is just not the same as it is from Germany to Denmark, and that is obviously because the flows of asylum seekers that we see do not come from Finland and Sweden to Denmark, but that they come from southern Europe and up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142507	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142510	I think, of course, that there will be some differences. If it was the establishment of border controls against Sweden, then there will certainly be some fluctuations in relation to who it is, who you catch, etc. But I would still like to hear: if we now say that controls were introduced on the Danish-Swedish border today, would the Minister not agree that this would mean that people would be rejected in the future who would otherwise not have been rejected? Does the Minister agree with that? If the Minister agrees with that, why is it actually acceptable that I was about to say stand by? Because we know very well that if border controls come in, people will be rejected who are not going to be rejected today. So why is this an acceptable situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142551	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142554	Again: the Swedish-Danish border is also being watched, even if there is no border control. However, should the need arise, we will see a reputation or a great deal of pressure, then we will be able to introduce border controls to Sweden. On the other hand, I do not believe that border controls should simply be introduced in order to introduce border controls. But now there is a well-functioning border control, I think, between Germany and Denmark, and I very much welcome this, and I am of course also pleased that it is one of the things that the Danish People's Party, it has to be said, supports very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142626	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142630	Thank you. First of all, it is good that border controls have been extended. I can say, as someone who lives in the area, that it is always a pleasure when you cross the border from Germany and drive into Denmark and can see that you are watching. Then you know that you have come to a country where you take care of each other and a country that cares about its citizens and wants to take care of what we have. It is a positive signal to send to the outside world. But now it is about the second border, against Sweden, and I would like to ask the Minister: when the Minister looks at the situation in Sweden, does the Minister believe that the Swedish authorities have control over the area of immigration and integration and over all the developments in crime, particularly in parts of Sweden in the ghettos? Is there control in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142714	I would be the first to say that there is no doubt that the Swedes are challenged and they lie as they have made. But it is very much because we have pursued such a lenient foreign policy as we have. Now I am not going to judge the Swedish police, but when it comes to Swedish police, my impression is actually that Swedish police are relatively effective, although they just have a much bigger task than the Danish police in front of them, because there has been such a lenient policy on foreigners. Having said that, it is clear that in cases where there will be pressure on the Swedish-Danish border, we will also be in a situation where we can introduce border controls. Once again, it is important to emphasise that we have very, very close cooperation with the Swedish police, also around the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142815	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142818	I am very concerned that Swedish police in the pockets of Sweden have lost control, that the authorities do not know what is going on and where you are in a situation where there is a small Arabia in parts of these pockets in Sweden. There I can be very worried about how it puts Denmark in a situation where our borders are, in principle, armed to Sweden and what it can have in mind for the development of crime here and also for the very, very hard crime. Is the Minister worried about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142848	Frankly, I am worried about Sweden, as I am, because the Swedes have pursued a policy of foreigners so leniently that I really believe that it will be impossible to restore the situation in Sweden. Some may disagree with me, but that is my opinion. So, yes, you can worry about that, but again: if we find ourselves in a situation where the pressure from Sweden against Denmark becomes so great that it makes sense to introduce border controls, then we will introduce border controls. It is also good to know that the Danish People's Party will certainly also help keep us on fire and keep an eye on developments in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142935	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to the rapporteur's line. Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412142945	Thank you. After all, we are discussing a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to introduce border controls between Denmark and Sweden if anyone is in doubt about this, as is the case with the one we have between Germany and Denmark, and which the Minister has just announced on Facebook shortly before the debate here will be extended. The authors of the proposal justify their concern that the increase in violence and crime in Sweden could potentially move from Sweden to Denmark, as well as the wish to prevent rejected asylum seekers from travelling from Sweden into Denmark. I can understand the concern of the proposers. Sweden, including our neighbouring town of Malmö, is witnessing extensive gang crime, car burns, gunfire killings on a scale far higher than what we see here at home. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have also been following developments in Sweden and taking this concern seriously. Our legal rapporteur, Trine Bramsen, has thus previously had the Minister of Justice in consultation and asked about the likelihood that the gang war in Malmö could become cross-border and directly dangerous to Denmark. At the time the report was that the Danish police were very aware of the developments, but that there was no connection between the crime in Malmö and the crime in the police circles of Copenhagen and North Zealand, just as the National Police were not aware that the crime in the Swedish bicker and gang environment was related to conflicts in Denmark. And when it comes to the rejected asylum seekers, we are, of course, part of an EU cooperation that allows us to send back to Sweden any persons who have been refused asylum in Sweden. So while we, like the Danish People's Party and, I understand, the Minister is concerned and has an awareness of the development of crime in Sweden, we do not believe that this at present justifies border controls. But of course there must be a call here for the government to ensure that the Danish police continue to keep a close eye on the situation. However, in view of this, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143150	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143155	Thank you. I hope that the last remark was not an expression of the new close cooperation between the Social Democrats and the Radical Left. I would like to know: what does the Social Democrats really think about border controls? Is border controls, that is to say, looking after the country's borders, basically a good thing, or is it basically something that is opposed in principle to such a thing in the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143220	Well, this is a very controversial issue, and I would say that there are various things that need to be balanced. In other words, it must of course be the case that a purpose is achieved; that border controls are effective. And this is where we trust both the announcement the Minister is making here today, but of course also on the one we have received previously in consultation from the Minister for Justice via the National Police that in relation to Sweden it will not serve any purpose there it will have no effect. And it is clear that if it were absolutely free of charge to introduce border controls, it would be a different discussion from what we have now. But that means something, even for those other than criminals who may be cross-border when border controls are introduced. It matters if we talk Sweden, for domestic trade with Bornholm and the rest of the country, it matters to commuters, it matters to business. And that is why there are different things that need to be balanced. But most of all, in the discussion, which the Danish People's Party also raises here, I think that the National Police do not consider that it will serve any purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143326	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143329	I believe that if only the leadership of the National Police were to decide what we did in this country with regard to border controls and police action, there would probably not have been as many things carried out as have actually been done. I think this is very much a political discussion. But I am still missing Mrs Astrid Krag's answer: what does the Social Democrats really think about border controls in principle? In the Danish People's Party, we believe that border controls are, in principle, a good thing. We want to take care of the country's borders, and that is what you do by standing on the border itself, so you take care of your people too. So what is the social democracy's position on border controls in principle? Then there may be some practical balance in relation to business and commuters etc. These are practical considerations that can also be taken into account if border controls are implemented against Sweden. But in relation to the principle of border control: is the social democracy for or against border control purely in principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143429	Well, actually, that's what I tried to answer as best I could when I had the floor for the first time. In other words, we support the extension of border controls against Germany, which the Minister has announced today. And we attach great importance to the fact that the Minister is saying here today that the situation with regard to the border with Sweden will of course be closely monitored. And in this way it has to be said that there has to be a purpose that is being served by having border controls, because, as I described, there are also some things that are moving in the opposite direction. In other words, if it were only criminals and people who wanted to hurt us as a result of border controls, that was another discussion. But things are not quite as black and white as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party makes them here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143510	Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143513	Thank you. I see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has extended border controls until November 2019, which means that the next time a decision is to be taken on an extension, we are on the other side of a parliamentary election. I remember when we had parliamentary elections back in 2011. We had, together with the then government, done a great deal to increase the guarding of our borders at that time, and at the same time, as the power at that time unfortunately tipped and the Prime Minister became Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, all the measures we had taken were rolled back almost from day one. So I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: can the Socialist rapporteur guarantee that if government tips, then border controls will be extended, then the control we have will be maintained? Is that a guarantee that the Danes can get right here in front of a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143603	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party cannot get that guarantee from anyone in this Chamber, perhaps with the exception of the Danish People's Party. After all, we hear a minister here telling us how the assessment of whether border controls should be extended is based both on open and closed notifications, and I do not have access to them now. Perhaps we will have access to them if the voters want a social democratic government when we reach November, and that will of course be the concrete assessment of the level of threat to Denmark and the effect it will have on an extension of border controls in Sweden. It is, of course, also a discussion which the Danish People's Party is raising today in relation to the border with Sweden • it was an extension to Germany. There will be. I can't imagine anything else. After all, I cannot ask the Minister about this, but it would be the same answer that would be given if the current government were asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143652	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143658	It is just so that I can understand it: the Socialists will not deny that, after an election, all the improvements made at the border will be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143706	I must say that I thought a little special collection of my answer. I would say to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that the social democracy has been deeply concerned precisely with the issue raised by the Danish People's Party with the resolution here today. We have even had the Minister of Justice in consultation because we are concerned that the crime picture we see in Sweden can cross the border with Denmark, and we will, of course, be equally concerned about that after an election. As far as the whole debate on extending border controls is concerned, I think that the minister we have now is, in fact, presenting very clearly how it should be based on a concrete assessment of what constitutes a specific level of threat, which is what it is possible to achieve, whether it is best with samples, as the Minister said, or risk-based border controls, or that there may simply be a need for a genuinely fixed border control. In this way, we are in the same place as the current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143755	Then it's mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143756	Well, yes, but I do not think it is quite insignificant how the Social Democrats feel about border controls. In fact, I think that is very important. After all, it is no secret that we find the border migration that is in Denmark quite naturally also that it is guarded, of course to take care of the Danes and that the project with the borderless Europe is a state of emergency in relation to a long history in which we have had borders. I think it is not insignificant to hear about the position of social democracy. It is therefore an important question whether, with the stroke of a pen, border controls can be lifted on the other side of an election and will not give promises as to whether there is a post-election border control. That is an important question. In fact, I think this is an extremely important question, and I would like the Socialists to give a clear answer to that: do we have border controls after an election? We should be able to make this clear. That's incredibly important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143907	Thank you for that question. The uncertainty expressed by the rapporteur, I can tell you, and I tried to encourage the ground by saying at the very beginning of my speech that we support the extension that the Minister has announced on Facebook today. We support this now, we support it in an election campaign, and we support it after an election. So there is no reason at all to draw that uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143932	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412143935	If no promises and guarantees can be made, and I think that we should be able to say that a border control is still there after the elections, and the Social Democrats are not promising it, then we are somewhere else too. Then it's our border controls we're going to the polls on. I believe that border controls are absolutely essential. I believe that borders are a good thing for the citizens of the country. For Denmark's citizens border controls are an absolutely good thing if they were there too against Sweden. I think it is perfectly natural to have border controls. I think that what defines a nation state is that it has a border control. If you consider that the external borders around the Schengen countries are not safe at all, but are armed, I think it is necessary right now to have a clear answer as to whether you can give a promise that there will also be border controls after the elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144028	Like the rapporteur, I am also very concerned that the external borders should work better and we need to strengthen Schengen cooperation. Then I would say to the rapporteur that I can make exactly the same promise as the Minister for Integration can make in relation to border controls and support the extension that has been announced here today. So the rapporteur can be quite confident about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144052	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Mads Birded, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144107	Thank you for the floor. In this way, I agree with the proposers that border controls can be an effective means in specific situations and in the interests of our internal security. It is very important that we look after our country. I would also like to be honest and say that border controls do not come without costs. It places a burden on those who live close by, those who have to cross border controls as commuters; it costs years of work in the police and demands a re-priority of the tasks of the police in order to free up the necessary resources. So you have to balance your efforts here. Therefore, it is also crucial that such an approach is commensurate with the threat to Denmark and the migratory pressure that we are experiencing from other countries. In relation to the situation in Sweden, which is the subject of the resolution, we believe that a possible security threat from rejected asylum seekers in Sweden is resolved much more effectively through the close cooperation we have between our police and our intelligence services. In addition, we are not currently experiencing a migratory flow from Sweden that can justify increased border controls and the resources associated with them. Against this background, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144236	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144239	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Left basically believes that a country should protect its borders. Is it a task for the political leadership of a country and politicians to protect its borders? Is that the position of the Left in principle? I know that in the past, the Left has been campaigning against the fact that border controls are a little silly. I simply believe that, in an EU election campaign, the campaign was conducted that it was silly to establish border controls against Germany. Fortunately, we have now changed our mind, and that is a good thing. Could it not also be that there would then also be a change of opinion in relation to the Swedish border control?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144313	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144315	I have to be absolutely sure that I understand the question. After all, the Left believes that it is of course important that we control our own border and have significant border controls against all nations, including with regard to Sweden, but border controls can be carried out in many ways. You can stand physically on the border, you can cooperate with others, and then you can be very watchful about the threats you are nervous about, and then scale your physical border controls up and down. After all, we have seen that our belief that the external border control of Schengen cooperation meant that we have chosen to have control along the Danish-German border, and we have then chosen to continue with that today. It's because there's a threat picture there that says we're gonna do it. The same could easily be true of Sweden, but we just do not think that we are there now. I am quite in line with the Minister here, since that is something that can change, but as it is now, it is what it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144424	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144426	It is undoubtedly true that it is the way it is now, but I simply do not understand the Liberal and Democratic Group's position. Mads Fuglede's arguments against border controls and establishing border controls against Sweden. If you look at what is going on in Sweden with the very indefensible asylum and immigration policy, which has been going through very, very long time from the Swedish side, when you look at the gang problems that exist, when you look at how there can be fire attacks, bomb attacks on Swedish police stations, when you look at the fact that the Swedish intelligence service has been out to say that the number of extremists, that is radical Islamic extremists, has increased from a few hundred to several thousand, and you know that there are also a lot of illegal immigrants and rejected asylum seekers, whom the Swedish authorities have not managed well enough, I am actually almost obliged to say: what are the arguments against the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution? Is Mr. Mads Fuglede did not agree that the situation in Sweden is very, very critical, and therefore we should of course respond from the Danish side? If you do not want to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, does the Left have any other new measures that can be taken to protect the Danish border against Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144536	I completely share Mr. Martin Henriksen's concerns about developments in Sweden. I see Sweden as a country which, because of an ill-advised and ill-thought-out immigration policy in some areas, is almost in free fall. That is why it is important that we keep a close eye on developments in Sweden, and I will not at all deny that we can find ourselves in a situation where the pattern of crime in Malmö, in the vicinity of the Danish-Swedish border, can make it possible to create permanent border controls and, of course, the moment it is so, we will support it. We're just not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144615	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144619	I find it interesting to note throughout the phenomenon borders or not borders that Denmark has been a member of Schengen since 2001, and then in 2010 we got a border control. This means that for some 9-10 years we have been trying not to have a border control and, of course, there was also the post-election period. But experience is relatively short. Our whole story tells us it's good to have a limit. Why? To protect the country and to protect the Danes. That is why I think it is nonsense to talk about border controls, as if it were something strange, an exclusivity, something strange. It is a natural state to have a border, including one against Sweden. I think this debate will always be about the fact that it is incredibly extraordinary and strange that the Danish People's Party could propose that we have border controls against Sweden. But we've had that all over our history.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144736	Well, I don't think it's weird or unnatural or weird that you want to take care of Denmark. I believe that the limits we have are, of course, some that we must pay close attention to, and they matter. And we must also control them. You can control your borders in many ways. We can cooperate with other countries, and that is what we have been doing for many years to keep an eye on both our own borders and an external border. And when Europe broke open, we discovered that the cooperation we were in there was not enough to secure the Danish-German border. Then we changed the terms along that border. This can also happen to Sweden, which I do not wish to reject at all. And I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that it defines a nation that one has control of one's own border. And we must keep a zealous eye on what is going on along the Danish-Swedish border. So do we. And if the authorities involved in this process give us reason to change the relationship along the Danish-Swedish border, then we have to do it just as soon as we can get along with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144841	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144844	I just think it's natural that it's there. Well, I don't really think this discussion was necessary. What is new is the introduction of this boundless utopia, which has abolished the borders of the nation states within Europe, while at the same time the external border, which was actually the very prerequisite for the second to function, is completely hollowed as a sieve. That is to say, it is a dysfunctional undertaking. That is why I think it is natural that the countries should fall back on what they have done historically and have experience of, namely to introduce a border and border controls and to defend their borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412144926	Of course we have to keep an eye on our borders. The stricter a border control you make, the more difficult it is to cross a border, the more difficult it becomes to act, to work across borders, to move goods across borders, etc. That is why it is always a question of the extent to which you have border controls. I do not believe that the Danish People's Party speaks in favour of airtight closed borders, nor does anyone else, I hear. We are probably just not where the Danish People's Party is, with a very, very zealous control effort at the border. We believe that we are in control of the supervision that is at the border. And if that changes, we would like to take part in changes, but we do not think that the situation is the same today, although we are very concerned about the patterns of crime that exist in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145016	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145019	Thank you. I have always had a little difficulty in finding out what the Left likes right inside the heart about border controls. So I would like to know if the rapporteur, when crossing a Danish border and being pulled over by the Home Guard or the police while Dannebrog is flapping, basically thinks that it is nice and good with border controls, or if the rapporteur thinks that he would have liked to have left out. What is the rapporteur's basic view of border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145050	I am incredibly pleased with the Danish border, and the Danish border marks the transition from one people to another and the entrance to our country and everything that is ours, and when I am made aware of it, either through a sign or a police car discreetly parked in the side, or if there are border barriers, it shows that there are some people here who are making an effort to look after my country, and I am always happy about that. And I am confident that we have authorities that scale our efforts along the country's border, which are so important, according to the needs that now exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145125	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145142	The proposal we are discussing here is of course a desire to have a strong border control, and it is clear that almost the only way to control the border is by physical border control. The wording is used at the border crossing points between Denmark and Sweden, as stated in the proposal. It says at the crossing points and it's a very physical thing. What was then used in the proposal as an example to argue for it is this group of people from Sweden who, in 2010, had travelled from Stockholm to Copenhagen to commit a terrorist action against JP/Politikens Hus at the City Hall Square. Dansk Folkeparti writes in the proposal: "They were perfectly seamlessly raised from Stockholm and through the open borders with Denmark. Completely seamlessly raised from Stockholm through the open borders of Denmark. But that is simply not right; it is wrong. That's bullshit. These people had been watched all the way. Every mile they had drove, they had been watched, including when they were in the bathroom, because there they were also watched. The apartment they had ended up in in Herlev was supervised, massively supervised, and they were arrested at exactly the time when they were about to commit their atrocities, and thus they were given the maximum penalty compared to what they had planned, because they could not avoid saying what they were doing. But they were prevented from doing harm. The action to monitor them so thoroughly cost a lot of resources, of course, but with a very positive result. The question to be asked is whether it would have been a better use of the resources if they had sat on the Øresund bridge 24-7 and seized a little too long knives from Swedish scouts. Had resources been better used in this way? Yes, only if one believes that such controls on the bridge or at other physical border points would have prevented criminals from coming from Sweden to Denmark. But then we are not talking about a random border check, so we are talking about a border check, where every car is examined forever, where every identity check is made. Unless there's going to be mega-long cows, we're talking about thousands of employees for that job. And would that prevent you from getting from Sweden to Denmark? If you think so, you're naive. Now I am not going to give any advice from the platform, but I can, if the rapporteur or rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is subsequently interested, go through a number of routes where it is possible to come from Sweden to Denmark without meeting a single physical border guard, one! So what would have been the result? The result would have been that these people had hardly been stopped and this terrorist operation had been carried out. But now the resources were used in a different way, and then it didn't happen. Does this mean that border controls can never be necessary? No, that does not mean that, because there may certainly be situations where physical border controls can also be sensible, but in our view it is not primarily a political estimate, but a police judgement in relation to where the resources are best used. At any rate, we do not want to be involved in a situation where what can actually save lives is replaced by something that turns out not to be valid, and that is why we basically believe that if the police approach and argue that it would be the best use of their resources to create permanent border controls, we will of course look at it, but it has not happened so far, and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145639	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145643	I would like to ask you about the position of the Enhedslisten on the current border controls against Germany. Does the Enhedslisten think that border controls should continue? Or does Enhedslisten think it should stop? Or does it entirely depend on what the police come and say to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145705	Yes, it depends a lot on what we get from professional advice. I can say that I am very shocked that virtually no firearms have been taken at that border. That worries me a lot. We know from various gang wars that many weapons have come to Denmark precisely via the rest of Europe, among others. from the Balkan War, where it was sold out. But we can see from the statistics that have been produced that the so-called weapons seized are not firearms at all worth talking about. So there is something that suggests that they are coming in in a different way and that border controls do not work. This is deeply disturbing, and I think the Danish People's Party should also be very concerned about this, and that one should try to find a more effective way of doing that border control than just having guards sit and check people who may know in advance whether or not to run over because they know how much border control there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145758	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145801	I note, of course, the answer about firearms. That's not what I asked, but I'll take note of it anyway. I don't think so, sir. Søren Søndergaard answers the question. Because I am asking what the Enhedslisten's position is on the current border controls. And I understand that Enhedslisten actually doesn't really have a position on that. I must then understand that the answer is that if the police come and then have a position on border controls, then the Enhedslisten will put emphasis on it. But what does it mean to emphasize? Does this mean that Enhedslisten will follow the police recommendation? So if the police recommend it go away, then it has to go away. Will you just follow that recommendation, or will it be included as a criterion among several criteria? I understand it as the last thing, that if the police come and say that we want to abolish or establish some border control, then it will be a criterion among several. Does the Enhedslisten not have an independent position on border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145855	Chairman of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen, is absolutely right that the police's assessment will be one of the elements we will be looking at. We will also look at a number of other elements. We will, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on a number of points: what this will mean for trade and the free movement of goods and persons. In some areas we actually want stronger border controls. So, we are very concerned that many of the goods entering Denmark are filled with poisons and chemicals. There we would like to see stronger border controls. But we will certainly ask the police some of the questions about how weapons are entering Denmark at the moment, when they are clearly not being taken on the border, and whether the resources could be used better in a different way. So yes, it will be an overall assessment where we also continuously form our impressions on the basis of the conversations we have with people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145953	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412145955	I understand that the rapporteur is very pleased with the Danish People's Party's speech about physical border controls. That sounds very funny to the rapporteur, and that is fine. But frankly, I've grown up with border controls. There was a fine and good border control, where some people stood at the border and watched. It is to me intelligent border controls that people know something about who to wave in and know something about who to drive on. Does this mean that we can then completely close the borders and take everything that comes? No, it doesn't. Never has anyone ever claimed that. We live in this miserable world where we do it as best we can. Does this mean that we also need some other means? Yeah, it can. But I do not dispute, and I simply do not think it is true that border controls are not a political issue. Like all other legislation that is within its borders, it is, of course, a political issue. It is not up to the police to define whether there is a limit or not. This is something we are doing from here and the fact that we are giving up at all the idea that Denmark is a national state which actually has to take care of its own borders, I simply think there is where this has happened, and that is what we disagree about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150115	Sir. Langballe has no evidence in what I said to suggest that I think it was ridiculous to have border controls. What is only the difference is that we understand two things about border controls. The Danish People's Party understands border controls as some people who stand in a physical place. I understand border controls as having control over your border, and you can have that in different ways. Now Mr. Langballe, that he grew up with a border control. Where? In South Jutland? Everyone knew where they could cross the border. Everyone knew in Mr. Langballe's youth, how to get across the border without being stopped. I can guarantee that. I grew up without any limit, namely over here on Zealand, where you went to Sweden. I think it was during the Nordic Passport Union that it was at the end of the 1950s that it was introduced, where we had no border controls to Sweden, but were able to travel freely back and forth; moreover, it was a Nordic cooperation which I greatly appreciate. I also thought that the Danish People's Party was very happy with Nordic co-operation. I understand that you are not, but I just think it is important to stress that having control over the border is possible in many ways and not necessarily just one that consists of having physical control.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150228	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150230	Have I ever claimed that there should be only one type of border control? That's ridiculous. I have never made a suggestion that you cannot do so in many ways. It would be silly if you didn't. But the fact that there is a physical presence, I find it very reassuring. And of course, if there's any place where people can go, then you have to secure those places. I am not saying that the past was perfect, but that the idea of border controls, where there are customs officials defending our borders and looking out for who is crossing the border, and that quickly can sort out what they feel is alarming and what they do not feel is alarming, I find everything else with regard to border controls of a different kind to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150315	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150316	I just need to remind you, sir. Langballe on what kind of a proposal that Mr. Langballe has been co-sponsored here today, namely that the Danish Parliament requires the government to introduce border controls at border crossings between Denmark and Sweden. That is what the proposal is about. I am just saying that we would like to have border controls, but not necessarily at border crossings, because you can have border controls in other ways. We would rather that the terrorists who came from Stockholm and drove down to Denmark were watched all the way and that they were stopped in their atrocities than that some people had sat 24/7 on the border, where these terrorists happened to have passed by, or that they had taken a boat and had sailed over somewhere. We'd rather have. That is why it is a question of resources, it is a question of assessments and the assessments and, what the various experts say, we listen to and then we make our decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150408	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150411	I just couldn't help but think about Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard's last answer in this round about the terrorists who drove from Stockholm towards Denmark. Sir. Søren Søndergaard is well aware that much of the intelligence you had about these very people was due to strict laws of terror, which were adopted in Denmark without Enhedslisten's support. It's just like that, so we brought it with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150432	I guess it wasn't something you'd gotten by standing on the border, huh?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150440	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150441	I just don't know what Enhedslisten wants. On the one hand, you do not want to tell us what you want with border controls. Apparently, you don't really know what to do except listen to a few different people. I cannot quite understand what border controls are. On the other hand, reference is made to rules which, even in my memory, have been largely negative and voted against in the Parliamentary Assembly. That doesn't make any sense to me. What does Enhedslisten really want with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150506	I do not think that it can be unknown to the Danish People's Party that, when dealing with a proposal, there can be many elements in it, and then you make an overall assessment. Then you can vote against it, but that does not mean that there are no individual parts of the proposal that you can support. Well, I never think that Mr. Peter Kofod has heard Enhedslisten say you shouldn't keep an eye on potential terrorists. I don't think so either, sir. Peter Kofod has ever heard that the Enhedslisten said that there should be no international cooperation where international terrorists were being watched. Actually, I think, sir. Peter Kofod quite precisely knows, for example. The role of the unitary list in ensuring this cooperation through Europol. So it is just to stick to the fact that we have gone against certain proposals because they have contained some things that were unacceptable to us, is not the same as the fact that we do not believe that there should be control of terrorists. And then I still cannot fully understand what it has to do with the proposal here for a physical border control that will take a lot of resources but will not have the necessary beneficial effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150610	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. And it is as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150624	Thank you for that, President. Children who are not to be called she or he, but hen; Pippi Longstocking is censored on Swedish television; she must not play Chinese by pinching her eyes together; nor must she call her father Negro King; the popular Danish children's book Mustafas kiosk was withdrawn because the book was both racist and Islamophobic according to angry Swedes; sex-neutral toy catalogs; Swedish men who want to breast-feed children in the name of equality: Yes, there are really plenty of good reasons to close the border to Sweden shepheriously. However, we do not want to introduce border controls to Sweden, because most Swedes are, after all, sensible people, and they must have the opportunity to come to Denmark effortlessly and get a breath of all the political correctness. Border controls have costs, and if the costs are higher than the gains, they should not be introduced. It is our clear assessment that the cost of border controls to Sweden will be greater than the gains at present, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150749	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412150804	Thank you. The alternative cannot support this motion for a resolution either, and we cannot do so for some of the same reasons, which have already been mentioned by Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard. In the alternative, we fully salute freedom of movement between the Schengen countries of the European Union, and that is also why we believe that we must maintain the possibility of crossing the EU's internal borders without control. After all, Schengen cooperation is at risk if border controls are introduced and border controls extended several times. I do not think that many of us have an interest in Denmark leaving Schengen, because one thing is what it does in relation to the concrete controls, that is. All the extra inconvenience and bureaucracy that this entails, but something quite different is that if Denmark is not part of Schengen cooperation, there will be a number of other drawbacks to it, among other things. that Denmark is not part of this database that Europol has in relation to our special agreement, from which we can go in to lead in relation to cross-border crime, etc. If we were not able to do so, we would, at least in the first place, have problems with illegal migration and serious cross-border crime. I think that some of what is interesting in relation to the motion for a resolution is, after all, the arguments put forward by the Danish People's Party in relation to why border controls have been a success between Denmark and Germany. They mention the number of charges and some other things. But what is at stake is that we have no comparison figures. The figures for e.g. There are no charges before border controls and the number of rejected persons at the border because they were not rejected before, but were then expelled from Denmark. But there were plenty of expulsions before border controls were established, so there is nothing to indicate that border controls between Denmark and Germany have actually been successful. In addition, the figure for the charges that are, of course, also covers those who have been rejected because of forgotten and expired passports, some of them EU citizens, citizens who, of course, have the right to enter Denmark once they have found their passports or have had their passports renewed to match the date. Of the 5,000 charges that have been, the vast majority are traffic related conditions. There are 367 charges for trafficking in human beings during these 5,000 charges since border controls. Sydsjælland and Lolland-Falster Police Department... I just looked it up... there are 183 charges for trafficking in human beings. 45 of them ended without indictment. Sixty-six cases were settled by a fine and 66 cases were settled by judgment. Sixty-six cases of trafficking in human beings have been settled by judgment here after border controls, and then you might ask yourself about the proportions, in relation to how much it costs to have border controls. That's 275 million. kr., I think we spent that on it. That is one thing, and another is what it costs from police resources that could have been used elsewhere. While border controls have gone on, police response time has increased throughout Denmark, there is a decrease in the charge rate for serious crime, vandalism and theft, and the average processing time from notification to charges for example. Theft has increased by 91 percent. So it is also the consequences of border controls because the resources previously spent on response time, on charges, on police proceedings are simply being used at the border now, so they are no longer in the police districts. So I need to be convinced. I think that the observations made in the motion for a resolution are allegations for which there is no evidence in relation to the great success that it is believed to have been the introduction of Danish border controls between Denmark and Germany, and when you hold it against what it has had from the consequences monetary, resource-wise, case-by-case for the citizens of the rest of Denmark who need the police resources, you can say that it would probably not have been worth it. So we are definitely voting against this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151226	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151228	Thank you. So the alternative does. However, I would like to know what the alternative approach to the border controls that we have today is. Does the alternative mean that border controls should be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151241	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151242	If sir... Martin Henriksen is aiming at border controls between Germany and Denmark, and so we believe that it should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151251	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151253	Thank you. Is it a demand or a wish that will be made if the majority changes here in the Folketing? In other words, how important is it for the alternative to dismantle border controls so that we just have open borders?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151309	Yeah, well, we don't just have unlimited traffic, I was about to say, to and from Denmark. As Mr. Søren Søndergaard also mentioned, there was control earlier. I am also from South Jutland and have been checked many times when we crossed the border before there was border control, I should say hello and say. But no, we are not making the ultimate demands, either here in Parliament or in the press or elsewhere, but I can say that this is an element that is important to us because we very much want European cooperation. And part of European cooperation is, of course, to work on securing the external borders of the European Union in order to guarantee freedom of movement across the EU's internal borders. So this is an important element for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151349	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151352	It is not exactly the alternative that I know to fight to secure the EU's external borders. I must say that is not really a debate that I have followed closely or noticed very much. But if the Radicals, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative think that border controls are a really bad idea and are in negotiations with the Social Democrats, what will be said about the Social Democrats in terms of border controls? Well, now we're assuming that the red block wins the election; I still think away, blue block wins. But it's just to give you this thought example, because I don't really think it's insignificant when people are going to put a cross on the ballot slip, whether you want to cancel the border checks, so that's what's the point or whether you want to keep it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151445	Thank you. Now we are in the situation that we point as little at Mette Frederiksen as we point to Lars Løkke Rasmussen. So we are going to be debating what it takes to be able to act as parliamentary basis, but we are going to clearly sit and deal with what needs to be done so that we do not withdraw our support for a given government, and this applies both to one side and to the other. Will this be an element on which we will take a position? Yes, it will, but I simply cannot stand here and give any guarantees or promises or ultimate demand that this is something that will have a decisive impact on our support. But that is not an unimportant element; we believe that border controls have in practice been a wrong decision, but there is also a lot of symbolic policy in what we do not like, and it is not a very EU-friendly move to have such a border control. But no, I do not want to make any concrete proposals as to whether this should be a requirement on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151544	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412151604	This resolution is about strengthening physical border controls between Denmark and Sweden, and in the course of the debate it has developed into a slightly more fundamental debate on borders, whether we should have borders, and about the borderless Europe, which I understand also plays an important role for the Danish People's Party. To take the principle from the outset, I would like to say that we also want limits in the SF. We are in favour of the nation states, and if you have a nation state, you must also have a border. We need to know when we pass a law here in the Folketing, where the law applies, and we need to know where the police should be able to operate, etc. So there must be a limit and there must also be controls on the border, and it is obvious that there must be. But that is not the question: how are these controls to be drawn up? There I have to say that when I hear about the Danish People's Party's approach to it, there is a lot of symbolism in it for me, because you want some physical symbol that now you come to Denmark. Dannebrog is there and you will be happy when you come to Denmark in your car as in the old days when you drove across the border at Kruså. I think it will be too limited in relation to the problems we are facing. I think in and out that Mr. Søren Søndergaard had an excellent example of the issue of criminals and terrorists, where it was not border controls that prevented the terrorist attack against the House of JP/Politiken, but that PET was able to follow them all the way down Sweden, and I am quite sure that a border control could probably have blocked that operation. There are also other ways to have border controls than to have a source house, where there is a customs officer and welcomes the drivers and says welcome to Denmark, because that is something else it is about. In this context, we have a pragmatic approach from the SF to it. If there is a need for stricter border controls, including stricter physical border controls, we are at all times willing to look at it, and if there is no need for this, we want, if I may say so, a less severe border control. I think it is an advantage that you can cross the border without being checked, and I think it is a huge advantage, as we have had for many years, that you can go to Sweden without being checked and that commuters can travel between Malmö and Copenhagen without having to check what would make life difficult for a lot of people, including for the economic development of the entire metropolitan area. In fact, I think it is a positive thing to have an Øresund region where there is an exchange of people and economy across the border. To the extent that it can be prevented from being destroyed by too much control, I think we should do so. That's also why somewhere I don't think the Danish People's Party is crazy convincing in their arguments for this. They write in the comments that it can certainly not be ruled out that a similar border control at the border crossing between Denmark and Sweden will also result in the seizure of weapons, etc. That cannot be ruled out, they say. No, there's nothing in life that can be ruled out. It is not a very strong argument to say so. You argue a great deal with concern and with fear and belief and that it can be so and so, because it is terrible in Sweden, but that is not a very strong argument, and that is why, if you are to be a serious party, you have to base yourself on the professional judgements that are coming. If, on a professional basis, the police say that border controls need to be tightened up, then we will have to discuss it. We should not just be rubber stamping the recommendations of the police, of course we should not, but there must be a certain professionalism behind the way in which these things are discussed, and not something like that that cannot be excluded etc., because it is completely irresponsible. So, of course, we cannot support this proposal from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152034	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152037	I know, sir. Holger K. Nielsen believes that the Danish People's Party is a rogue party. For the record, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, for Mr. Holger K. Nielsen stands like and praises the collaboration in what is called the Øresund region, and the free movement that if you come from Danish side towards Swedish side, there is control. You can risk being pulled aside. I do not know whether the Socialist People's Party will encourage Sweden to drop its border controls. Anyway, I understand that we are opposed to the motion for a resolution. I would like to hear what the SF's position is in relation to the border controls that Denmark now has against Germany. Do you want it to continue, or do you want it to stop?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152117-2	We are not in favour of border controls. We believe that the police's resources are being spent completely wrong on that control down at the border. Those resources can be used better elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152130	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152130-2	So SF wants to abolish the current border controls against Germany. How important is this for the Socialist People's Party? Is it something that will be given a great deal of attention if the majority changes after a parliamentary election, that is to say, that a Socialist government must go in and abolish border controls? Is this something that will be emphasised in any future intergovernmental negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152153	Listen, there is such a debate in the media at the moment, where all sorts of parties make different demands on a government after a parliamentary election. Frankly, I think that we should wait for the outcome of the elections before discussing what demands should be made. I have no idea whether the SF will be in a negotiating position at all, with whom, if so, to negotiate, and what demands the SF will make. I have no idea. That is why it is a question which cannot be answered. Moreover, we do not want to abolish border controls. That's not what this is about. It's about what kind of border control you should have. Should you have some source house at the border, or should you have a mobile border control, a hinterland control, which you also have at the moment. Well, that's what it's really about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152249	No one else has any comments. Sir. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152302	I am actually glad that my father chose to work in Denmark and not in Sweden. Nevertheless, I am not in favour of us having border controls with Sweden. However, I am in favour of border controls with Germany, and this has been relevant since 2015, not only in relation to the refugees who flowed here in 2015, but also in relation to the security of the Danes. So border controls in relation to Germany are very relevant and, in fact, we should also really defend the EU's borders southwards, so that there was no need for internal border controls, but as long as there is no defence of external borders, I think border controls between Denmark and Germany are relevant. So although we are in favour of border controls between Denmark and Germany, we are not in favour of border controls between Denmark and Sweden, as the Danish People's Party proposes, and the main argument is that Danish police resources are very limited; you spend a great deal of resources on terrorist preparedness, on gang crime, etc., and there are simply not enough resources to take care of the Danish-Swedish border, at least not at this time. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152443	Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152454	Thank you. A country must protect its borders, it cannot be otherwise. At least that is what we think in the Danish People's Party. Denmark must have border controls if it is up to us too because we want to mark where Denmark starts and where Denmark ends; that, of course, is also part of it. On 4 January 2016, border controls were introduced at border crossings between Denmark and Germany, this has been extended several times and has also been extended today. That's a good thing. One can, of course, discuss when something is temporary and when something has gone on and become permanent. It can be said that border controls against Germany have at least become more and more permanent border controls, so go on with it. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party think that the border controls that we have had so far against Germany have been a success, and even parties that were originally opposed to border controls now praise control and the results achieved; I believe that representatives from the Social Democratic Party, from the Left, also from other parties, who say that it is good that we have now got the border controls that we have against Germany. Figures from the National Police from the beginning of this year show that during the three years of border control, for example. have rejected about 7,000, almost 8,000, people at the border, that is, people who did not have the documents in order, people who, if we had not had border controls, had been allowed to enter Denmark, and then no one knows what they could have done here. In addition, more than 5,000 charges have been made for e.g.: trafficking in human beings, possession of weapons, drug trafficking. In other words, there are good arguments for continuing and extending border controls. It is important for an independent and sovereign nation state such as Denmark that there is control of the border and a fair control of who and what comes in and out of the country, not least for the sake of the security and security of the country and its citizens. It certainly cannot be ruled out that similar border controls at border crossings between Denmark and Sweden would also result in the seizure of weapons and drugs, just as smugglers would be discovered and unwanted foreigners would be rejected. It can be said that this will indeed happen if it is that we have border controls against Sweden. Unfortunately, Sweden is a country in which violence and crime have come out of control in many ways. We also have our problems in Denmark, but after all we do not have Swedish conditions, and we should not have that. For example, for a long period of time Malmö has been a city where shootings and blasts have been so large that even the police have at least had the feeling that they have been giving up. According to Jyllands-Posten in 2017, the Swedish security police, Säpo, estimated that the extremist radical environments in Sweden have grown explosively from a few hundred to several thousand extremists, and we think this is something that we should take much more seriously. With the proposal, the Danish People's Party wants border controls to be established quickly between Denmark and Sweden, so that there is reasonable control over who and what comes into the country and so that it allows for results similar to those achieved with border controls to Germany. It is also possible that border controls between Denmark and Sweden can prevent rejected Swedish asylum seekers, illegal immigrants, from travelling from Sweden into Denmark. In the view of the Danish People's Party, Denmark will become a safer country with border controls between Denmark and Sweden. We must protect our borders. Because when you protect your borders, you protect your people. We in the Danish Parliament, as responsible political leaders, must protect the Danish people, that is our task, and in the view of the Danish People's Party it is an expression of a failure and a lack of political leadership when a majority rejects the Danish People's Party's proposal, which is put forward in the light of the speeches made by the Minister and the various rapporteurs. But I would like to say that, like the Danish People's Party, we had to fight for some time before border controls came against Germany and now the one who hopes and believes here is that at some point we will reach where there will also be a majority in favour of establishing border controls against Sweden, so we are working on that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152908	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152946	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412152953	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party is proposing to order the government to terminate the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. The government's position on the resolution is that we cannot support it. The motivation of the proposers for the proposal is inter alia: a desire to be able to disenfranchise foreign fighters, even in cases where this would result in him becoming a stateless person. From the very beginning, therefore, I would like to stress that the fact that the government does not support this proposal is not, of course, due to the fact that the government has any kind of warm feelings towards foreign fighters, on the contrary. They have turned their backs on Denmark and have fought against our values, our democracy and our freedom. We must therefore also do everything we can to take Danish citizenship from foreign fighters who have just dual citizenship. I am therefore also very pleased that the government recently agreed with the Danish People's Party that we may administratively deny such foreign fighters their Danish citizenship if they have acted contrary to the vital interests of the country. An administrative disqualification could, as a general rule, take place while the person concerned is still abroad. In this way we can ensure more than today that these people do not return to Denmark. Furthermore, the government sees no reason why children born in areas where entry and residence are illegal should automatically acquire Danish citizenship at birth. The government and the Danish People's Party have therefore also agreed to tighten up the rules in this area, so that children who are in future born in areas where entry and residence are illegal, unlike today, do not automatically acquire Danish citizenship if their parents have entered in violation of this ban. Disqualification of nationality, whether by judgment or administrative means, can only be achieved if the person concerned does not become a stateless person. This is due, among other things, to: our obligations under the stateless convention, which means that we cannot take Danish citizenship from anyone if they become stateless. However, the same obligation is also reflected in the 1997 Council of Europe's Constitutional Convention, which Denmark has acceded to and ratified. In addition, we are under an obligation under the European Convention on Human Rights, where it is immediately considered that, from the outset, it would be contrary to the Commission for a person to be deprived of citizenship in cases where he or she does not have the nationality of another country or is entitled to do so. I believe that Denmark is best placed to do so by having a strong international legal order. Not all conventions are perfect, but we stand best by not resigning. The new initiatives on citizenship of foreign warriors and their children, on which the government and the Danish People's Party have agreed, also show that there is indeed room for manoeuvre in relation to the disqualification and acquisition of citizenship, without having to withdraw from the stateless Convention. A withdrawal from the stateless Convention would therefore not, in the view of the government, be the way forward. With those words, I can say that, as I said, the government does not support the resolution here, but is very pleased that we can carry out some tightenings in this area, so that we do not have to maintain a situation where promotional warriors have Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153424	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153427	I would like to ask a question of principle: what is the most important thing for the government and the Minister to take account of international conventions or to take account of Denmark? For once in a while, there are situations where there are probably basically, and I do not think that is a secret, a majority in here who would like to do something about it may be to deprive Syrians of citizenship or whatever it may be, and we have also agreed that we should go a little further and so on. Does the Minister not sometimes want to say that it is the concern for Denmark that comes first, and then the conventions must give way, and then we must take the trouble that it may cause?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153512-2	Well, when it is set up in this way, you could be tempted to say: yes, sir. Martin Henriksen is absolutely right. But when you ask yourself whether Denmark, as a small country, benefits from the existence of a strong legal order in the world, then my answer is: yes, we benefit from that because we are just a small country. And that is why we are not resigning from the conventions, nor are we breaking conventions, but, of course, we should have a desire to modernise conventions and, of course, to challenge conventions and go to the edge of conventions, as we have done on several occasions. And that is the small nuance that I think is so crucial that you get in, because it is clear that if you put it up black and white, as Mr. Martin Henriksen does so in his question, is the answer: yes, one might well be tempted to do so. All you have to do is think about what the next step is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153613	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153614	Thank you. Here today it is quite specifically a question of the stateless Convention. Can the Minister say what Denmark has benefited from the fact that we are part of the stateless Convention?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153626	I would say that, generally speaking, it is a good thing for a small country like Denmark to ensure that there is order on the part that is called whether people can be made stateless. Well, I think that is such a fundamental question. Having said that, however, I think that we have proved together here recently that there are also spaces in the stateless Convention, and we have now used that space in relation to the foreign warriors, and I am quite happy with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153703	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153707	But I also think that the question of principle must be that of consideration. I do not feel very convinced by the Minister's reply that it is an enormously good thing in relation to an international legal order. Whatever it is, these conventions are widely interpreted, widely different, depending on where they are, and that is to say that in reality it has something to do with national will, I would say. However, I would say that if it were finally, the government could then have done so, but I understand that the government will not agree with Article 8, which has not been endorsed, in the stateless convention, which states that people can be deprived of citizenship and that they will thus be stateless if they have shown harmful behaviour towards the vital interests of the state. Actually, you can. This means that the people who have made the Convention could well imagine situations where citizenship is actually taken and people are made stateless and that it does not do anything because one weighs the consideration of the state, that is. Denmark and the Danes, and say that placing the weights in the balance weighs more consideration for the country than making a person stateless. It is interesting, however, that the very same considerations and the very same fundamental discussion we are having here are actually included in the stateless Convention. After all, I think that the stateless Convention is a political contract document which can of course be changed and, of course, can also be withdrawn if it is not in the interests of one's interests I am excited about the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412153850	Now I do not think that Denmark's position in relation to the stateless convention will be changed on a Friday afternoon before Easter. I think that we need more and more legal considerations and, unfortunately, I do not think that it is as simple as Mr Tugendhat's report. Christian Langballe is doing this. That said, Mr. Christian Langballe, that one might wish to amend the stateless Convention as well, and that this is just a document that could only be amended. At first, yes, but there is no doubt that there is a very, very large number of countries that have signed up to the stateless Convention and that you first open a convention, you have to be quite sure where that debate ends. After all, we should not end up in a situation where we are being more bound or going to be worse in the future than we are now. That is why I believe that we are doing the right thing both by taking the debate, which I think is actually crucial, also with other countries, but of course also by challenging the stateless convention in cases where it makes sense for Denmark, and we have just done so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154007	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154008	Well, the answer that I actually think is a little unspeakable. If I now point out that, within the framework of the Convention, consideration has been given to the fact that the State may disqualify people from citizenship and make people stateless and do so within the limits of the Convention, then the Minister says that it sounds like such an easy snap. No, but that's not what I want either. These are considerations we have had and, of course, we have had them because there is always something that outweighs something else. On the one hand, there is agreement on a convention and, on the other hand, there are some vital considerations in relation to the nation and the peoples of the States which need to be in order and where the balance, when weighed up, falls, in relation to the fact that it is the interests of the country that are at stake, just as the constitution is above all these conventions, and there is a reason for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154105	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154106	Yes, and when you put it up as black and white as Mr. Christian Langballe does, of course, I can quickly draw an answer from an automatic machine, but you just have to, and I think Mr Langballe too. Christian Langballe must, to relate to Denmark being a small country, and we are therefore a small country that benefits from the fact that there is also a strong legal order in the world. We're just too small to go alone in this field. This does not mean that we should not be discussing these things and that we should not also be discussing them with other countries. That seems to me to be very relevant, because I am quite sure that in other countries too there is a desire to change, for example. The status quo is simply whether we want to change in the same direction and whether we are challenged in the same place. But that's what it's gonna be all about, and then, all the time, I think, having this both under observation and under debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154203	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154205	Thank you. After all, the discussion will soon be about amending the Convention, and that is where I share the Minister's view that it is difficult and that there is also some risk involved. Another part of the discussion, which is also important and relevant and very topical, seems to me to be the discussion on how to interpret the Convention and where to lie down. I have been somewhat concerned about this, and I have asked the Minister a number of questions to see if there is anything to prevent us from putting ourselves in the same place as Norway, which is not only suspending applications for citizenship if people are accused or accused, but also if they are under investigation for a crime which could result in prison sentences of five years or more. I got an answer to that in the autumn, in October it was almost a long time ago that magazines on the trees had to be looked at again. Therefore, this is a really nice occasion, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for giving it to us, to ask the Minister if you have had a closer look at it since October.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154307	Yes, it is clear that we do, but it is extremely complicated legal assessments that need to be made in this area. I think Mrs Astrid Krag can remember when we started work on precisely postponing citizenship to people who were suspected of being a threat to the security of the empire, because it was also a matter that took some time. And that is simply because, among other things, we are dependent on other countries, as it were, answering us and answering the very specific questions that we have, and we need to have these answers evaluated. But what is also in it is that there are quite large differences from the first part of this, for example. When you grant citizenship to a child in different countries, i.e. if you do so only when the child reaches 18 years of age or while it is an infant. Therefore, there is a huge difference between the countries and theirs, you might say, both in this area, but also in how they deal with it in the real world. This is a long discussion which we have also spent hours on in consultation around it. However, I agree that it is important to look at exactly where the border is in these things, and that is why I do not think that this is a bad or uninteresting question, Mrs Astrid Krag, either. On the contrary, I think it is actually worth examining.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154438	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154439	Well, thank you for the answer, which was certainly a positive indication; then perhaps one might want a slightly higher pace. And it's fun to think that it must be a little strange for the Danish People's Party that when we were in the election campaign last time, it was some very firm promises to break up with conventions. In fact, I believe that the Minister was political rapporteur for the Left then, so it was even the Minister himself who could be very firm and much more impatient in another function. I remember there that when a year had passed since the elections, thought was still being given to how to contact the UNHCR at all. That is why, of course, I am also curious to hear what has happened since I got that reply from the Minister in the autumn, and then until now, because I think that Norway and Denmark are not very difficult to compare in relation to the constitutional traditions and to very many features. I therefore think that it should not be extremely difficult to conclude whether we can, indeed, expand our ability to prevent people from acquiring citizenship if they are being investigated for serious crime. Maybe we could actually make it before an election was released. I'd think it was really nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154547	But the first part of that, Mrs Astrid Krag, has just been delivered, and I think that Mrs Astrid Krag should take pleasure in that it was something we also wanted when the Socialist Government was sitting there. But we have then solved the task, also with the support of the Social Democratic Party afterwards, and I think that is a good thing, in other words, to postpone the right to citizenship for those people who have been judged by PET to be at risk for the Danish state. I think that's really, really good. It will certainly not be on my watch and that is how I have always felt that we are going to grant citizenship to a person who is actually in the binoculars to be a danger to Danish security and the vital interests of the Danish state. So I am quite happy with that. I think Mrs Astrid Krag should be happy that we have now started to examine whether we can go further. But that is true: I pressed the Social Democratic Government on this and then I was allowed to solve it myself. Well, that's a special pleasure for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154645	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154658	Thank you for the floor. We have already dealt with a similar proposal from the Danish People's Party in this Chamber, or perhaps it was actually an identical proposal. And, like last time, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that we in the Social Democratic Party recognise that we in Denmark are not living on a desert island, but are part of a larger global society in which international conventions form part of the rules of the game, including that no one should be stateless. That is why I might as well have said at the outset that the Social Democrats will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to terminate the UN stateless convention. But I understand that the Danish People's Party feels called to make the proposal. The bourgeois parties at the time went to the polls to break up with the stateless convention, and four years later it seems to me that the dispute is over. In September 2018, more than 3 years after the Minister took office, it was finally agreed with the UNHCR that an application for the right of entry may be suspended if the applicant is deemed to be a threat to the security of the country or is accused or accused of a crime which may result in a prison sentence of 5 years or more. I do not know if that is what was then the dispute with the Convention, but that is: so far, so good. I would therefore like to ask today whether we are sure that we cannot go any further, because even if we support the Convention in the Social Democratic Party, there is no reason to be the puppet in the class. If there are other countries which interpret the Convention more appropriately, we must of course also do so, because I fully share the wish to be able to deny deep criminals and so-called Syrians their Danish citizenship. That is why I have also taken an interest in what is being done, for example. Do in Norway. I have asked committee questions about this in a couple of rounds, and most recently in a reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration from October last year, I was told that it would be considered whether there is a need to adjust the Danish approach, so that the processing of an application can also be postponed in cases where a person is under investigation for a crime which could result in imprisonment of five years or more. I have just asked the Minister what the status is, and I really do not think I got so much smarter about it. So, in conclusion, the world has changed a lot since World War II, and the ideas that were the foundation of the United Nations Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness have been challenged by the fact that men and women from all over the world, including Denmark, are today going to Syria to fight for a terrorist organisation. That is why it is also necessary to challenge the framework laid down by the Convention for our room for manoeuvre in this context, and we in the Social Democratic Party will continue to work to ensure that there is a wider path to play when it comes to the possibility of denying citizenship. But, as I said, we cannot support the specific motion for a resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154940	Sir. Christian Langballe, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412154942	That was incredibly disappointing. By the way, I was the one who made the last proposal to withdraw from the stateless Convention soon many years ago, but we are persistent in DF and we are continuing and continuing. But what is the matter is just the question I put to the Minister, and I can ask the same question here: what is basically the most important thing about regard for the stateless Convention or for Denmark and the Danes? I think that is simply a fundamental question. Then I would also like to say, as we are talking about the stateless person's convention, that Article 8, which Denmark has not signed up to, is in fact an exception where people can be deprived of citizenship, so that they become stateless if they harm the vital interests of a country. At any rate, it must be said that these Syrian warriors and burkabrude have done so by going down to the Islamic State, which stands for all the opposite of what Denmark stands for, and by the way also fought against Danish soldiers, thereby committing themselves to treason. So I think it would be better to either step out or use all the articles of the Convention, which would be much better for Denmark's trading room.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155107	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155109	Yeah, isn't it 8 or maybe 9 years ago we treated it? And it is impressive that the rapporteur is not one day older to look at, but that is how some people keep themselves well. But joke aside, I think that what the rapporteur describes in relation to Article 8 sounds interesting, in other words that there is an exception in the Convention that we have not acceded to in Denmark, so that we do not use the scope it should give us. I think that sounds like something, and it would be very good to clarify this in committee, which we have after the first reading here. And I have to say that I did not really hear that the rapporteur received any reply from the Minister on the two occasions that the question was raised with the Minister. So we can pick up on that in committee, in other words we can ask a few questions about it. I would find that incredibly interesting, because we in the Socialist Group are therefore very concerned about better opportunities for both the disqualification of citizenship and, as such, the whole of this discussion about what we have of the possibilities of action when it comes to suspension, and indeed the whole discussion about who should be given it in the first place. So I think that is an interesting thread to pursue in the committee procedure that we hope we will reach before an election campaign, yes, nobody knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155221	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag. Sir. Mads Fuglede, Left, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155245	Thank you for the floor to the President. We in the Left agree with the authors of the motion that foreign fighters are people who are no longer wanted in Denmark, and therefore I am also pleased that we, together with the Danish People's Party, have made an agreement that we should be able to administratively disclaim foreign fighters from their Danish citizenship. If we then cannot support the resolution, it is partly because we want to uphold our contractual obligations, but that does not mean that we should not be critical when it comes to international conventions. As Birthe Rønn Hornbech has previously said from this platform, the conventions are neither God, nor Pope, nor holy. Of course we must challenge the conventions and go to the edge, but to resign from them will damage the international legal order from which Denmark benefits greatly. As a small state, it is not the law of the strongest states that prevails out there, always in our interest. I believe that we will go further with other tools, such as the agreement we have just reached, where we are putting our hands on the foreign fighters who have turned their backs on Denmark and on our highly beloved democracy and values, and on that basis the Left cannot support the resolution. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155415	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155417	Frankly, I thought it was extremely sad, and I also thought it was sad that the Minister would not support it. And that is actually because it is precisely about the good system that we have jointly agreed on, namely that people who sit in Syria can be deprived of citizenship at a distance from home, and the last thing they would be saying is that they will not do anything if they become stateless. I do not think it does, because they have betrayed all that Denmark stands for: some have burned their passports, and they have declared war on all that Denmark stands for, forgave the Danish state, forsaken the Danes, and have they not deserved to lose their citizenship? Yes, they do. Then the question is what weighs most: a convention or consideration for Denmark and the Danes. I know what I choose, because in relation to the constitution, it is my conscience that applies to the law and the law that apply here, and that means that I must assess the conventions too, because they are not eternal, they are not written with God's finger. These are general political contractual documents which should be faced much more than has been done, but they have not been prepared because there is some kind of sweet-soup humanism that has prospered in this and that makes it impossible to question conventions at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155542	Sir. Christian Langballe is talking about something very important here, namely the principle of why we have these conventions. If we look back at the history that precedes the conventions, in the 1930s and in the run-up to the Second World War in particular, we had a period in which many people were denied their citizenship. It was something that was done in regimes that are very different from ours, and it created a state of lawlessness out there where there were just more refugees, and therefore a small state like ours will always be a magnet because of our very fine society and our very lucrative welfare model. It will always be in our interest that there are so few refugees in the world who have been made stateless and are on the move. We have some Syrian warriors who we will do everything we can not to get back, and we will take their citizenship away from them to the extent that they have dual citizenship, and then we also have an international legal system in which it is in our utmost interest as the kind of society we are, both in terms of our smallness and our attraction on the part of people who may wish to travel elsewhere, to keep on balancing that the stateless convention is doing us something good, while at the same time challenging us in this area of the Syrian warriors. That is why I welcome the agreement we have had there and that we have this debate on the conventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155712	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155713	It is always a concrete balance, it always is, it is in this case too, and that is why I propose that we go out of it. It is a concrete balance that applies to the vital interests of the country. Now I have just read from something and have referred to Article 8 which, for reasons which I do not really know, we have not joined, where, as it were, citizenship can be renounced, even if people become stateless, if they, for example. damage the vital interests of the country. The Syrian Warriors do that? That's what they do in every way, in every way. Now we have agreed that we can remove citizenship from them at a distance, and then the last thing would be to say that, even if they were stateless, it is as it should be, and there is reference to Article 8 of the stateless Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155805	I'm not sure I quite understood the question here, but sir. Christian Langballe has asked two previous speakers, both Astrid Krag and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, whether we should then use Article 8, and if that is the question, I would say that we should at least be very careful about that, because it is not in Denmark's interest to create more stateless persons as such in the world, and we do not want to be part of an international order where we are helping to increase the level of stateless persons in the world, because it just creates more refugees in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155841	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155845	Thank you. When we were in an election campaign just under four years ago, we read in the newspapers that where the Left has previously pursued a policy of aliens, which was about cutting to the bone of the conventions, the party will, according to leaked papers, now go further and step out of the conventions that lead to unacceptable results. I'm really just curious. Now we're on the edge of an election campaign again. What will the Left be voting on in relation to the conventions this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155918	After all, we are going to vote on what we have already put forward, namely that, to the extent that we can use the conventions in a new light, we will do so in those situations where it is in Denmark's interest. To the extent that the stateless Convention is to be rethought, that is something we are willing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155940	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412155941	Can the rapporteur clarify this slightly? Because in the last election, it sounded different. This has also been understood by the Danish People's Party, which has subsequently called for consultation and several debates, because they have felt disappointed at the pace, but also, as it were, about what was really ambitious on the part of the Left. So what does the Left think about the reinterpretation? How small can it be? How little jerks can we talk about here? I agree that with the great arm movements we heard during the last election campaign, when we were ultimately ready to terminate the conventions, the Left no longer believes, and the Left will not go to the polls on that. But can the rapporteur not put a little more words on what the Left is going to vote on in relation to the conventions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160021	In other words, a good example is the whole adoption of the paradigm shift, where we have been very aware that there may be what has been called a system risk here, namely that we are prepared to go so close to the edge of the Convention that we will be prepared to meet the challenge of our Convention obligations in the paradigm shift, because we want to make it clear that what makes a person a permanent citizen of Denmark, that is, the criteria we see there, is something we would like to weigh differently in relation to the paradigm shift. That is a very good example in the way we do it. But we are doing it in small steps so that we do not storm out of a convention, but go to the edge of the convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160104	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160117	Thank you. In the absence of our Foreign Affairs rapporteur, I will deal with this item. Statelessness is, of course, a major problem for those affected. Stateless people live without the right to vote and with very limited opportunities to travel. Having a nationality and citizenship is thus an important human right, and that is why, among other things, the United Nations. has set itself the goal of abolishing statelessness in the world by 2024 at the latest. In Denmark, many years ago, we endorsed the Convention we are talking about today, the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness. The background to the Convention seems to me to have been properly explained from up here on why it is important and one of the things we have committed ourselves to in the Convention is to allow stateless persons born in Denmark access to Danish citizenship under relaxed conditions. After all, it is a matter that has been running for a long time, and at the beginning of 2011, thanks to journalistic digging at Dagbladet Information, Denmark had been breaking the convention for years. The then minister was fired, a commission of inquiry was set up, and the procedure was corrected, which, as far as we can judge now, broadly complies with the Convention. In 2018, the Institute of Human Rights published a progress report which showed that in Denmark in 2017 more than 500 people were still stateless, under 21 years of age and born in Denmark, and that unfortunately the figure is growing. According to the Institute, they all wanted to have the right to Danish citizenship, and on that basis Enhedslisten asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration whether, as part of Denmark's fight against statelessness, she would contact these people, these 500 children and young people, and draw their attention to their contractual rights to a Danish passport. The Minister rejected this; she did not intend to do anything about it. And we find that regrettable in the Enhedslisten. Last summer it was also known that the Danish authorities will in future interpret the stateless Convention in a new way, so that stateless applicants who are covered by the stateless Convention but are suspected by PET of being a threat to the security of the state will be suspended in future. It is a problematic procedure in which the Institute for Human Rights has questioned whether it complies with the stateless Convention. In its latest annual report, which was published this week, the Foundation criticises the fact that, according to the new model, applicants are not informed of the suspension and therefore have no possibility of verifying the safety assessment that comes from PET, so there is no legal certainty for these people. The resolution we are discussing today has been seen before, as has also been shown here. But the reason is new; the current reason is that the proposers want to deprive suspected foreign fighters of their Danish nationality, even if that means that they become stateless. In the view of the Enhedslisten, people who have committed crimes as foreign fighters must, of course, be prosecuted far into hell, if I may say so, but depriving them of their citizenship is not, in our view, the right solution to that problem. So, these are people born and raised in Denmark, and they will then be allowed to roam around in other countries that have no responsibility for them • Syria, where they have already been a huge burden, although they come from all sorts of other countries in the world, have killed people, have kept sex slaves, and then you want them to roam freely around like a global security threat. They should not just have taken away their citizenship, they should be in prison and they should be brought to justice. This can either happen here in Denmark, or it can happen, and we are also very open to that by setting up an international war criminal court, like the United States. in the Kurdish areas of northern Syria. This then requires that the Danish authorities are prepared to cooperate with the self-government authorities in those areas, which so far do not want, why it becomes difficult, really difficult, to prosecute these people at all, because the evidence that exists is, of course, available to the Kurdish authorities, which among other things. I've done the interrogations of these people. So there is a certain amount of hypocrisy in this desire for these people to be judged harshly, with which the Enhedslisten fully agrees, at the same time denying itself the most important opportunity, namely to cooperate with the forces that have defeated the Islamic State and which have many of these people in prison who have interrogated them and who have the evidence that can lead to their conviction. So we do not support the proposal. On the contrary, we believe that we should do more to eliminate statelessness and then, by the way, take care to prosecute the people who have to be prosecuted, independently of this issue. And I should like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the SF's native-right rapporteur, and say that the SF does not support the motion for a resolution either, and Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radicals, and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160634	That is how we managed three rapporteurs. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160645	Thank you for the floor. With motion for a resolution B 134, the Danish People's Party proposes that Denmark terminate the UN Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness with a view to depriving Danish foreign fighters of their citizenship. I would like to start by saying that there has never been and there is never going to be anything good to say about either the Islamic State or the people who have fought for it. The Islamic State was a regime and is still gone a system that led its way with a brutality, one might have to go all the way back to the Khmer Rouge and Pol Pot to find another, if it is not antique examples, for example. Emperor Caligula, who is the most suitable. If we then cannot support the proposal, it is because there is a lack of proportionality in it. Generally speaking, it is a good idea to protect against statelessness. It is a good idea that all people are citizens of a state which, in principle, has the task of providing and protecting fundamental human rights. That is why we must not completely withdraw from a convention which recognizes this and allows the work to be done to limit statelessness. On the other hand, we must make the lives of people who have fought for the Islamic State miserable in other ways, as several rapporteurs have already said. The Government and the Danish People's Party have just agreed that in the future, people with dual citizenship who have fought for the Islamic State will be deprived of their Danish citizenship, and children born in the conflict zone where the Islamic State existed and operated are no longer automatically Danish citizens. I see this as proportionate steps to get rid of people who have fought for the Islamic State. I think that's good. That is why I repeat that we welcome the agreement we have reached between the government and the Danish People's Party, but we cannot support motion for a resolution B 134. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160907	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. We move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412160917	Thank you. The alternative cannot support the motion for a resolution. Being a national of a country gives both a number of rights and it also gives some obligations. There are consequences in breaking the law of the country of which you are a national, among other things. That you can be punished by criminal law, and that is what you have to do if you break the law. Therefore, I would also like to start by saying in the same way as the Minister did that it is not, of course, because in the alternative we pay tribute to the Danish citizens who actively oppose our democracy, or to all sorts of others who oppose our freedoms, to our criminal law in general. But that doesn't mean we have to take citizenship away from them. And why shouldn't we? We should not do this because one of the worst things that can be done about individuals in the world is to deprive them of rights and duties and to be a national of a country and to be governed by the law of a country. There has been talk of the history of the stateless Convention. It is clear that after World War II there was a need to look at the history of statelessness, and it is interesting that at the same time as the United Nations addressed the issue of statelessness after World War II, there was a similar discussion about statelessness in Denmark because there were some Communist members of the Reichstag who had actually put forward a private bill to deprive a former German county, Schimmelmann was called the Danish citizenship he had because he had collaborated with the German occupying power. That bill was not approved by the Parliamentary Assembly or by the Parliamentary Assembly because the then Minister of Justice said that if Schimmelmann were to be denied his Danish nationality, he would be stateless, and that would be an unfortunate interference in a person's normal legal status, as the Minister of Justice said at the time. So it is interesting that Denmark has actually fought historically to counter statelessness. When agreement was reached in 1961 in the United Nations on the Convention, Denmark would not ratify the Convention at the beginning, and the reason why Denmark did not want to ratify the Convention was that the Convention said that citizenship could be denied, with statelessness, if there was a serious failure of loyalty to the country. Denmark did not agree with that part of the Convention because Denmark did not believe that under any circumstances one could end up in statelessness, regardless of whether there had been gross loyalty failure. So it was not until 1977 that Denmark ratified the Convention. It is interesting that we have the opposite debate today. But history is not insignificant, and it will never be, for history is built on some of the world wars, some of the quite terrible events that we have seen around the world. It is estimated that there are 12 million stateless persons around the world today. By making an individual stateless person violates the fundamental human rights of each individual under the status of stateless person. So the stateless convention not only guarantees citizenship, that is, a right to nationality, but it also protects individuals from discrimination and exclusion on grounds of sex, sexuality, etc., because statelessness leads to a state of lawless individuals. We cannot support that in the alternative. No matter how little sympathy we have for specific people who have committed horrible crimes, we have historically in Denmark been of the opinion that statelessness is something that we cannot do to people, and we have actively worked for it historically, and we think we should continue to do so. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161312	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161317	I can't believe I can think of worse things. The rapporteur says that the worst thing that exists is to lose your citizenship and become stateless. I can think of things that are worse. I can remember that it is worse to be decapitated down in Raqqa to sit on ranks with 10 or 20 others wearing orange boiler suits and then be decapitated or get amputated other limbs or be tortured. I could also imagine that it was worse to be Yazidipige and raped and exploited in all manner of ways. We're talking about proportionality, that's right, and this is the proportionality of it. It is precisely the actual state and the concrete events that make it worse, it is much worse, and there are not many of the people who have been down there and have come home who, in the end, have regretted what they have done. That's the proportionality of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161423	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161426	Thank you. I do not disagree with the extent of cruelty in the examples mentioned by the rapporteur. I do not disagree with that at all. But we need to find out what level we are discussing. The fact that we recognise that statelessness is not something we have to work for in Denmark is, after all, a fundamental endorsement of a convention that we support. This also means, of course, that it would not be possible to take the citizenship of a person with statelessness into account because we have taken a decision in principle. So we must be careful not to discuss things at different levels. It is one of history that anyone who may commit the cruel crimes is also punished for it in his country, in what country he is a citizen, and if it is in Denmark, I am confident that he will receive appropriate punishment. Fortunately, we have a criminal law which punishes quite severely when it is the crimes mentioned by the rapporteur. But we need to discuss things at the levels at which they fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161528	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161532	In other words, it is now included in the Convention, as the rapporteur himself said, that there are derogations. And why are there exceptions? It's because you can have a principle, a principle of wanting to counteract statelessness. I've seen that, too, but there are just limits, and the limit goes somewhere. I know where it goes for me in relation to these Syrian warriors, in relation to what they have applauded and supported. Excuse me, they don't deserve to keep their citizenship, and if they become stateless, nothing could hurt me any less.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161606	But whether or not these derogations are applied is, in principle, not a political issue, but a legal issue, as I see it. In other words, there are some exceptions that will be settled in the courts. Then I also just have to say "and it probably separates us" that we actually recognise the principle that we should work against statelessness without exceptions. That was actually the old Danish position on it before we ratified the Convention, the position that Denmark originally had, namely that we actually regardless of what should not make people stateless. That is something we are in favour of in the alternative. In principle, we think that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161640	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412161706	It is, of course, a disappointment that things do not agree with me and my party in this brilliant proposal which, incidentally, I have put forward before. I think that is a good suggestion. It has then been poured down the board both by the Minister and by the governing parties. Social democracy has shown an interest in pursuing some of the points that have been pointed out in the debate, namely that there are some exceptions in the stateless Convention, and I think that it would be appropriate for the government to be accommodating, as the Socialists are, because it would be very good if we could agree on this and proceed in peace and harmony with the election date and elections. That'd be great. Now we have talked about proportionality. At no time have I claimed that being a stateless person is a holiday. It certainly isn't. But on the other hand, as I also said to the rapporteur from the Alternative, I just have to say that these are monstrous crimes committed by people who went down to Syria and knew what they were doing. After all, this extreme violence has been the very thing that attracted. The extreme violence against the infidels has been the attraction, the creation of the caliphate and the introduction of these terrible Sharia laws has been what has dragged people down there. And there I just think we have to say that we have also reached an historic situation in which we have to make it clear that those people are simply undesirable in Denmark and that it was a mistake that they ever acquired Danish citizenship because they have committed the monstrous acts they have. Of course we do this out of respect for the country, and we do it out of respect for the Danes, and we do it out of respect for the social order that we have. I hope that other countries will do the same, that they will reach the same conclusion, so that European countries say that these people are undesirable in Europe simply, briefly and well. Of course, these people must be prosecuted and we must do everything we can to prosecute them. And with regard to the information provided by the Kurds: I simply do not know enough about that. I assume that this information will be collected in a proper and proper manner. That is certainly what the Minister for Justice has said: that there is a prosecution and that it is taking place at the scene. I fully agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on this. Of course it has to be that way. I do not think it is unreasonable to say that people who have committed what these Syrians have done deserve to have their citizenship condemned, and they also deserve to be stateless. Nothing could hurt me less than that they were, because they knew what they were going to do, and they have written off the Danish government, some of them have burned their passports to demonstrate their attitude that they do not want anything to do with Denmark, and then because they are a little squeezed, some of them will return again. That's where I'm gonna say no. They're not going back. But thank you for the debate. We would like to get out of the Convention, but a plaster on the wound could be that the provisions of the Convention were actually applied, where there is a principle of proportionality and where it is said that, of course, it is a bad thing to be stateless, but there is just something worse and that there is a consideration of the state and the Danes that you have to take. But thank you for the debate. Exciting and interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162113	There is one brief comment before we are done. It's from sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162118	I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that the people who have been down and committed war crimes in a bestially manner I agree with the description that has been made of what has happened, that is to say that it is one of the worst things we have seen for many years that is undesirable and must have the hardest possible punishment. But is the rapporteur not concerned that depriving them of citizenship could actually undermine Denmark's right to be able to ensure that these people are prosecuted? So who's in charge? Are we risking these people instead of being a security threat? The Danish People's Party could have knocked itself over the fact that they were deprived of their citizenship, but the consequence is that they were not punished and that they flow freely across borders and can become the security threat of the next decades? Is the rapporteur sure that this is the right solution to the specific problem? I understand the urge to slap on the chest and do something about these people, but, to me, we should throw ourselves into setting up an international tribunal which could prosecute them and ensure that they are locked up for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162226	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162229	Well, it's gonna take a war to set up a tribune like that. I'm not even sure it would be possible. So, what I mean from the outset with regard to these Syrians is that we have a law and a right that applies, and they have therefore violated everything I think Denmark stands for, and that is why they must be condemned. The interesting thing is, as has also been pointed out, that this is actually something that is being considered in the Convention. Is there anything worse than being stateless? Yes, there are, and the people of Iraq and Mosul and the Syrian civilian population have certainly marked that. There is something worse than losing your citizenship, and so have the Yazidipiger. They've been held as slaves. It's almost like you can't get over your lips what they've been through. I just think that we have to say here that we condemn them from citizenship because they have participated in what they have. And the convention gives us the right to do so. So, with or without the convention, I think it is proper morale to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162336	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162339	Well, the problem with these Yazidipiger and Syrian civilians is that what we're doing with this is wiping off these people who were born and raised in Denmark on a country they've already committed incredible crimes. Because then we can say it's out of our hands. The Kurds are currently holding thousands of Western Islamic warriors. They don't have the resources. They are under pressure from Assad on one side and Turkey on the other side. I'm just worried that this is one way of saying that it's out of our hands, and then we'll get them to travel freely in Turkey and in former Soviet regions and others until they sneak across the border with European countries. I am not sure that what the Danish People's Party is proposing is the wise way to secure Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162424	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162428	Now there are two things in this. Firstly, should they be prosecuted? Yeah, they are. We must then find a way of doing this locally down there, and Denmark must then contribute to the fact that this will actually happen, because it would be natural to prosecute them at the scene, namely where the crimes have taken place. I think the rapporteur might agree with that, but let it be. Secondly, do we have anything after that? Do we now and here have any relationship with these people? No, we haven't. They should not be citizens of our country. We owe this to the Danes and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162504	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe. No one has asked for short remarks, nor has anyone else asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190412162519	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 April 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
