ParlaMint-DK_20191206100008	The meeting is open. There is today the following review: Pernille Vermund (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the assessment and compensation of loss of property due to noise emitted by Airstation Skrydstrup). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191206100036	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 December 2019. I give the floor for a statement of reasons. Mr Sikandar Siddique, Alternative rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206100111	Thank you for the floor. Generations before us have fought for the rule of law and for our freedoms, and we are proud to be able to describe ourselves as a society in which the individual has strong and clear civil rights with which we do not compromise. But for the last time we have seen illegal data collection, illegal logging, collection of mobile data, mass monitoring and now a security package, and as I understand from the Minister, facial recognition technology is being opened up. Slowly, but surely, we see a moral slip. We see that as a society we are moving from safeguarding our freedoms towards a big brother society, a society in which we are mass monitoring because we are afraid of crime. This concerns the alternative, and that is why we have asked for the question debate today on monitoring. I understand from the government, and I understand from the Minister for Justice that it is about security, that it is about fighting crime, but crime is falling, so why do we see an increase in mass surveillance of citizens? At the same time, there is no indication that there is no research, no evidence that surveillance should have an effect on the crime we have and on the organized gang crime we have. We have discussed this with the Minister of Justice several times during debates and in consultation. No, it is false security, and we in the Alternative believe that it is time for us in the Folketing to have a sober and factual debate on monitoring in relation to rights. How far will we go with the surveillance? Now we're talking about a security package with camera surveillance, then there's facial recognition technology, and what's next? Will it be a chip in your arm? That is why we have requested the debate today and I look forward to a sober and objective debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206100402	Thank you to the rapporteur for justifying the question. In reply to the question, I give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206100415	Thank you for that, and thank you for taking the initiative in this debate, which is extremely interesting and important to take, especially to try to take it where it is not just the case that you get your way into a different corner, but in fact try to make some more fundamental considerations about monitoring. Because it's not like surveillance is good or bad. There is legitimate, proper surveillance, and there is illegitimate surveillance. There is good surveillance and there is poor surveillance. When large tech companies collect information about e.g. I think everyone agrees that this is illegitimate. It should not take place. The truth is that all of us here, but also everyone else, use our mobile phones, iPads and the apps that are installed when we have to make payments when we have to find our way, etc. In this way, we are much more supervised by some private companies than most of us like. Another example of illegitimate surveillance is when undemocratic regimes use surveillance to persecute political opponents. So you can easily find examples of monitoring, as you would say, that we would like to have less of that. On the other hand, we can easily find examples of mass surveillance, which we would like to see more of. We all agree that this is a very good idea. What could it be? It could, for example, be done. We say in the health care system that there must be vaccine programmes and we must monitor whether the young are vaccinated so that we can write to the parents if they do not complete the vaccinations, so that we are sure that we get so many vaccinated that we get to a critical level where even those who cannot find vaccines etc. do not need to be vaccinated. Or it could be that soccer spectators are registered and monitored because they want to prevent hooganism. That is why monitoring there is a good idea. Then it is also legitimate surveillance when police are monitoring to solve crime. We agree on that too. It is certainly the case that all the parties that are part of the current Finance Act have said that we want more automatic license plate recognition. We need to record the license plate of every car passing by so we can follow them. We are in favour of mass surveillance when it comes to heavy goods vehicles. Why are we doing this? We do that because it serves a legitimate purpose. That is why we have said that monitoring is good. So the point is, you can't say surveillance is good or surveillance is bad. There is good surveillance and there is poor surveillance. There is legitimate surveillance, and there is illegitimate surveillance. If it is the common starting point that we need to have supervision in society, then of course we have to ask ourselves the question: how do we find out what criteria we are laying down on it when we want to know whether this is legitimate or is illegitimate? And one of them is, of course, in connection with the prosecution of crimes. When you prosecute crimes in Denmark, in society or elsewhere, you do so because here there is a behavior that is socially reprehensible. In fact, we want people not to rape. That's why we're criminalising rape. We want people not to kill. That's why we're criminalising homicide. On the other hand, we are doing it because what will happen if we do not? If everyone committed the crime and you hadn't criminalized it, what would happen? Yes, it would destroy the cohesion of society. Our ability to act as a society depends on our punishing crimes. It would destroy the security of society. It is logical that it would destroy the security of society if we said: we are not criminalising relationships. People can do it. And if we destroy the security of society, we destroy freedom in society. Without security, no freedom. Without security, no freedom. That's the truth. That's why we're criminalising. That is what we really want, and if we say it is true, then it follows logically that monitoring increases freedom. With surveillance, freedom increases. In other words, interference in privacy can lead to more security because we are fighting crime because we are putting criminals on hold because we are putting an end to social behaviour that we do not want, thereby creating more freedom. So when we as a society monitor, it is true, as has been said, that we all give a little bit of our immediate freedom, that is, when you are watched on the S train when cameras are set up. When you go anywhere else in the public room where there are cameras set up, you can argue for 'I'm not saying it's right: here I give a little of my freedom, because there are some others who see what I'm doing; because I might not do what I would otherwise do. So that the individual here gives some of his freedom, one can argue in favour. I am not saying that is true, but at least one can argue for that. But if we now consider that we are giving a little of our immediate freedom to fight crime together as a society, thereby ensuring security and thereby achieving the freedom that comes from security, then we are in the situation that each of us gives a little bit of our freedom in order to ensure the greatest possible freedom in society. It is true that we are all going to give a little bit, but the crime that we can combat effectively gives freedom back to society. The curious thing about this is that it is especially the weak and the vulnerable who are given freedom because they are the most exposed to crime, isn't it? It is women who are being raped and homeless who are being attacked. So there's a connection here that we're also gonna have to have with. And it is the resourceful and robust ones that give the most freedom, because they have the opportunity, if they do not like it, to buy themselves for freedom, for example. by demarcating residential areas, e.g. by guards, etc. So the point of this debate on monitoring is that it is much, much more nuanced than just saying that there is a contradiction between surveillance and freedom. Surveillance and freedom are much more connected than simply saying: either we have surveillance or we have freedom; either we have security or we have freedom; either we have security or we have surveillance. It doesn't work that way. Things are much, much more connected, and that is why we need to lift this debate, that we deal in principle with it, that we not only drill ourselves into exactly what is going on here, but that we start a place where we have to see that monitoring and freedom are linked. It is true that monitoring raises a number of questions of principle, but a substantive position requires a slightly more comprehensive intellectual process than just saying: I am against that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101223	Thank you, Minister. And there is now only a brief comment from the rapporteurs. The first is sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101235	Thank you for your statement. I would say that we are far apart from each other on the question of whether we can go in and restrict freedoms because we want freedom. But now I only have one brief comment, which is why I have to choose. The Minister now mentions the example of rape several times. In Aalborg's Virgin Ane Gade there has been surveillance for a long time precisely to solve what is called VVV crimes, i.e. possession of weapons, rape and violence. Can the Minister tell us whether it has had any positive effect on rape and attempted rape in Virgin Ane Gade, in other words whether the surveillance has led to a lower number of VVV crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101328	That's wrong. That is exactly what is causing the debate to get out of hand. That is exactly what I asked: will the rapporteur confirm that, when he has helped in the financial law that has just been passed to set aside money for automatic license plate recognition, it is an interference in freedom because he is doing surveillance that he is opposed to? No. Because it's not that simple. It's much more complex. It's the same thing with surveillance in the nightlife. I think it's a win that you can catch the criminals. I think it is okay that, when we go out, we all give a little bit of our freedom, so that if someone is raped or attacked or other crimes happen, we can actually find the perpetrators and hold them accountable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101415	The next rapporteur for one brief remark is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101420	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's statement. We are then somewhat more in line with the Minister than the first rapporteur. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister agrees that, as a Parliament, we must provide the police with all possible means to combat crime, and that among other things. facial recognition is a very good tool for police use.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101443	After all, we have created a comprehensive security and security package which will be discussed here in the Danish Parliament, where there will be an opportunity to take some important steps with regard to the tools that the police have sought in order to combat crime. I have no doubt that one of the discussions we are going to have will be the issue of facial recognition. I have no doubt that you can combat crime by facial recognition, i.e. compare Brøndby Stadium and so on. Facial recognition also raises other questions of principle, which must also be dealt with in the hurry. That is why facial recognition is not one of the solutions to be adopted quickly, but I am not saying that this is something we should not do. I'm just saying that let's take that debate on what it is that some considerations need to be balanced against each other, including here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101535	The next question is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101538	I do not really think I disagree with the Minister. I think there needs to be a balance and, of course, the police need to have some investigative tools and tools. I think we're all interested in that. But there's one place where I feel a little bit annoyed by surveillance. Yes, there can of course be more and it's illegal logging of the Danes' teledata. How can the Minister defend the fact that a legislative proposal is now being tabled again which postpones its revision? There has been a judgment in the area that Denmark is not complying with. What does the Minister really think of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101617	It is true that we have an EU judgment that gives us reason to review our rules. When we have postponed the audit, it is also because I think that we have talked about it in a different context, but then it can be revealed here to all the listeners and the many viewers and all sorts of others, how it is related to a considerable political pressure in the European Union to reverse the judgment that has materialised in that there are now a few cases where there has been a trial, where the judgment is being written and where the judgment will certainly come in May; they are quite a long time to write their judgments, you might say, before the European Court of Justice. And that judgment can materially shift the guidelines as there are. For the guidelines there are, in fact, an expression of how to interpret the judgment that lay. That is why I think it is appropriate to say: let us now see where the European Court of Justice, when it comes to the matter, puts the fence stakes before we change the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101717	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101720	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We may not quite see freedom as increasing by giving it up, but we can discuss that in a different context. What I would like to ask is what the Minister's boss, the Prime Minister, has said: what drives me as Prime Minister is a desire to look after Denmark. If I am to do so, we need to use some of the things that we have not previously had either the need or the desire to do. This gives me the opportunity to ask the Minister whether the Minister has a limit on when it is, as it were, too much with monitoring or investigative tools. Is there some kind of limit where they say: Aah, there and no longer when it comes to surveillance and investigation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101804	Well, that's what I was trying to say at the outset, so this is a question where balances need to be found. Monitoring is taking place right now, one of the rapporteurs is sitting with his cell phone, one is sitting with his computer, yes, there are more with computers. We are being watched right now to an extent that I do not think is sensible and that we should not accept. It's just to take one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101831	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101834	Thank you. I can hear that the Minister is very concerned about security. So am I, and we are also in the Enhedslisten, so I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister have any concrete studies or firm pointers to the fact that it is monitoring that increases the security of our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101859	If the fight against crime helps to increase the security of society I think it is, otherwise there is no cohesion in society and you give the police better tools to fight crime, then you increase security, then you increase freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101925	The next question is Mrs Inger Støjberg, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206101926	Thank you, and thank you for one, I think, both very nuanced and thoughtful speech, which I think gives a very good background for this debate today. I would like to know when the Minister intends to convene negotiations on the security package. We have waited some time, and one can say that it may well be that the government has made a financial agreement and took an autumn holiday, and I don't know what, but the gangs haven't, which is why it's probably high time that you get started and get started with something other than just talk. That's one thing. The second is that I would like to know if facial recognition will be part of those negotiations. As I understand the Minister today, there is no provision for it, and I would just like confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102019	The way I have intended to deal with the issue of the security and security package is that we will immediately put forward the four legislative proposals that will set up the security and security package I do not remember whether it is in this week or next week or when it is. The security and security package does not contain any facial recognition initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102045	We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur on the platform is the rapporteur on the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102101	Thank you, and thank you again for the floor. Freedom and the rule of law which previous generations have fought to ensure, and which the Folketing has traditionally defended jointly, have begun to degenerate. The liberal freedoms that we normally pay tribute to in this country are increasingly being discredited and ignored to the extent that they challenge our historical perception of Denmark as a constitutional state and a society of free and equal citizens. Mass monitoring openly overrides the right of citizens to privacy. The fact that increased surveillance has been carried out with both a red and a blue majority does not in any way diminish the concern. That this has even happened under the leadership of the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, makes it almost tragic. However, the new Social Democratic Government still wants a significant expansion through its new security package, which proposes putting more cameras in public spaces and making it easier for the authorities to monitor and control citizens. Denmark is already among the most monitored countries in the world with several surveillance cameras per year. people than both Great Britain and China. Denmark right now, before the government's new initiatives, has a camera for one in four Danes. The government wants to extend the use of mass monitoring and increase the control of citizens. In the alternative, we are strongly opposed to this development. We are opposed to the idea that we will all be more secure if the state knows everything about us. There is simply no research evidence that more monitoring increases safety and limits, for example. The hard crime. Surveillance provides false security, and it comes at a far too high price. The price is simply too high when the price of more surveillance is that we citizens must once again give up some of our privacy. Because when we give up our privacy, we also give up our freedom. Unfortunately, it seems to be an increasing trend in time, both abroad and at home, that some politicians consider it legitimate to disregard respect for freedoms. Britain is patched up with cameras, and with a new technology China can keep an eye on what mood you are in, whether you are facing red, and whether you are therefore a bad citizen. It is deeply worrying that action is increasingly being taken on the pretext that it should contribute to defending freedom when the concrete actions actually have the opposite effect. The use of illegal logging and startling talk about Danish police using facial recognition technology is just a few examples of a development that points towards a supervised, unfree Denmark. And yes, the police can make it easier to control us and keep track of what we're doing, but is it worth the price? No. The price is less freedom, and the price is too high. Denmark should not be a Scandinavian China. That is why the alternative is now also proposing to introduce a general ban on the use of facial recognition technology by the authorities. We must and must resist the temptation to control more and more, for it is the screw without end. It's a slippery slope, and it's moving fast. Soon we'll be up so high we can't stop it again. And every time we increase surveillance unnecessarily and without a scientific basis, we lose confidence in each other and the rule of law. Therefore, the alternative, together with SF, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, LA and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille from Fremad, would like to make a proposal for adoption, which I would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament rejects mass monitoring of the Danish population. Parliament stresses that monitoring in general does not have a preventive effect on crime, but recognises the investigative benefits. However, regard for the effectiveness of the police is not the only consideration, since the right to privacy should be weighed against this. Parliament calls on the government to play a more active role in this respect. to address pros and cons. fundamental freedoms in the implementation of existing or new technological solutions, which can be used directly or indirectly for monitoring Danish citizens. Bomb blasts must not become everyday in Denmark. Parliament therefore agrees that the police constantly need new tools to investigate crime, but that these must be followed by high legal certainty, clear rules and independent control. The Folketing urges the government to stop the illegal logging of Danes' teledata and to agree that facial recognition technology is not being used. • V 24). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102556	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. The first one's from sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102607	Thank you. I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that the cameras he mentioned earlier in Virgin Ane Gade should be tampered with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102617	In the alternative, we are quite clearly of the view that there is no evidence, that there is no research to support the preventive effect of the cameras, and that is why we do not believe that this is a road to continue. Instead of spending a lot of money and money on these cameras, we would like to spend it on several cops who walked around the Virgin Ane Gade, more near police, security, we know there's a lot of work, security, we know the citizens want.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102701	Thank you. Then I would like to invite the rapporteur to join the city court in Aalborg. If not every week, every month people are convicted of serious crime, violence and the like on the basis of the evidence called the camera. When it's shown, there's not much to talk about, and then they get convicted. I heard earlier that the rule of law filled a great deal in the alternative. What is the alternative to the rule of law which says that, if it were to be tampered with, criminals would not be judged? Is there not also a consideration to be given to the people of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102735	That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we say clearly and clearly that the police must use investigative tools. But the only question is, where is the limit? How far do we go? Are we going from cameras in Virgin Ane Gade to facial recognition, from facial recognition to running it along with databases that can keep up with what people owe in taxes, which can keep up with, what mood you are in, who can keep up with, whether you're facing red, which then later, if a citizen needs a loan at the bank, can be used in order to see if you're a good citizen or a bad citizen? How far will we go?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102815	The next question is Mrs Inger Støjberg, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102819	Thank you. I can sort of just follow up on sir. Preben Bang Henriksens's question here. 'Cause that's pretty interesting. What is really involved in research tools if it is not cameras, for example.? I'd like to know. The rapporteur then says that the alternative would like the cameras to be exchanged with police officers. It could be exciting to hear what kind of calculation you have actually made on the basis of it. How many policemen do you get for a camera like that? Because you must have been thinking. We also want more policemen, but I would like to know what is really behind this. But what investigative tools would you use if they weren't cameras?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206102907	It's several cops, it's good old-fashioned investigation, investigation, we know that works. These are tools that do not conflict with our fundamental freedoms. At least it's not mass surveillance and it's not facial recognition technology we want. What we want is for us to have a strong legal society in which we fight crime with tools that we know work, research tools, with tools that are evidence of. It's near police, it's several cops, it's evidence-based tools we're talking about. That doesn't mean we shouldn't have any cameras at all. That's not what we're saying. We are just saying that we have reached a point in our society where we see a moral slip in relation to going further and further in relation to mass surveillance. There are several examples of this, and I have just mentioned them in my speech. So this is about security in terms of rights and how far we'll go and how high a price we'll pay. And in the alternative, we will not pay the price of compromising our freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103026	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103028	Well, now it's gonna be really interesting. Because evidence-based tools to solve a crime weren't exactly that, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned with his extensive experience from the court that he experiences every month that there for example. are rapists convicted of footage from cameras? Isn't that an evidence-based tool?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103053	Yes, but from there going to mass surveillance and from there going to facial recognition technology is what worries the alternative. It worries the alternative that, in the fear of crime, we continue to go in and tamper with the basic principles of the rule of law, that we slowly, but surely, go in and play a block of our freedoms, and that we then finally cut across the branch we are sitting on, namely our rule of law. That is where the problem lies for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103124	The next question is Mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103127	Thank you. I'm a little confused. Because I can fully see that you can always paint a picture of the fact that it can all end up with public cameras hanging in the bedroom and that they can then keep up, and you then end up with cameras being tampered with, which are used effectively in the investigation. I actually thought it was a very good question, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen asked, but I really don't think we got an answer. Can the rapporteur of the alternative not tell us what kind of cameras they are now hanging somewhere and needing to be tampered with? Are those the ones in Virgin Ane Gade? Are those the ones on the S-train? Where is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103211	The alternative is the view, as we have also said when the security package was launched, that, in addition to the 1.5 million cameras currently in Denmark, we do not want another 300 cameras to be set up. Then, in consultation, I asked the Minister for an article in Berlingske on whether facial recognition technology is now being prepared. The Minister is in agreement with that, and there is what the alternative says that we do not want surveillance, mass surveillance, to be extended with facial recognition technology. We do not believe that we should have additional cameras, we do not believe that we should have more mass surveillance. We don't think we should have facial recognition technology. We believe that we have enough. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we have a camera per camera. one in four Danes. That's more than enough. We are no longer going down the road of slowly ending up in a big brother society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103311	Okay, so the answer was that the cameras in Virgo Ane Gade stay hanging and similar on the S-train. I think that's really fine. Now we've just made a Finance Act where we've set aside more funds for license plate recognition, and I think that's a really good idea. It is, of course, a very concrete tool which is also used in other contexts in the field of cabotage and cross-border crime, and where you can keep up with it quickly. This is an example of the fact that more tools are being unfolded and that I am thinking of the alternative being included. So I guess there are also examples of how the tools are useful.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103348	Surely it is no secret that it was certainly not our wish in the financial law negotiations. But when we were supposed to have untouched forests, climate aid, 50 million. kr. to cycling and to be part of an agreement where we can now receive quota refugees, where we get minimum standards, where we get a significant boost from psychiatry, there were some parties who wanted to make the overall agreement. The rapporteur is, of course, aware that this was not a wish of the alternative, but that we did not have any influence on the fact that it could not be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103428	The next question is Mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103432	I'll start by saying, Earth calls. In the ideal world it would be very good that we did not have surveillance, but we do not live in the ideal world. We live in a world where we have some inner enemies that will us evil. We therefore live in a democracy in which monitoring is subject to democratic control. After all, it is not a dictator we have in Denmark who can just monitor us all. Therefore, the comparison with Big Brother, 1984 etc. In my opinion, it is out of place. In connection with the fact that the police write in their statement on the terrorist action with the terrorist Omar, which took place in 2015, that what was crucial and what was crucial to apprehend and kill the perpetrator were the surveillance photos: Is the police wrong? Or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103536	Thank you for the question, sir. Nase Khader. In the alternative, of course, we are confident that we are a constitutional state. That is also why we are here today, because we want to maintain that we remain a constitutional state. Nevertheless, we have seen the teledata case, we have seen the collection of illegal mobile data by FE and PET and the police. We're seeing more and more cases, so we can't have blind faith in it. We must have democratically strengthened control. And in the statement made by Mr. Nas Khader refers to the fact that the mobile data collected had no effect on stopping Omar el-Hussein, because he changed his cell phone during his terrorist attack. The very same statement indicates that the collection of mobile data had no effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103639	Sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103640	The cell phone data had no crucial importance in catching him and killing him or getting hold of his friends. It was the surveillance cameras at Nørrebro, at Mjølnerparken and at Østerbro that had it. So if the alternative were given power, as they have been watching, those cameras should have been gone, and then in that situation we would not have been able to come after the terrorist Omar and kill him.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103707	Hand on your heart, sir. Nase Khader: Do you think a surveillance camera would have stopped Breivik? Do you think a surveillance camera would have stopped Omar el-Hussein? Thinks sir. Does Khade think that a surveillance camera would have stopped the terrorist who committed a massacre in the mosque in New Zealand? No, it's a false security. What will stop and stop crime and terrorist attacks and these criminals is a strong preventive action. These are cops, and this is a good old-fashioned investigation. Surveillance and mass surveillance provide false security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103749	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103754	Thank you. I'm gonna go on a little bit along the same lines. Does the rapporteur think Omar would have continued if he had not been caught as he was by means of surveillance cameras?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103806	I am convinced that Omar Hussein would have been stopped. We have 1.5 million cameras in Denmark, and we have lots of cameras on Nørrebro, but it was 1 day before he was stopped. I'm sorry, but he wasn't stopped immediately. Well, he started by committing terror and so on, so I just mean that the cameras didn't stop him immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103842	It is the rapporteur who has the floor and there is still time. So if the rapporteur wants to continue with his answer, that is quite all right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103848	In the alternative, we are convinced that, on the basis of security, we do not have to pay the price that we put our rule of law out of operation. And when the Minister says that there has to be a balance in how we do this, then it is also the other way. I'm not saying we have to take down all the cameras. I'm just saying that we shouldn't have mass surveillance, that we shouldn't have facial recognition technology, and that we shouldn't continue down a road where we get a big brother community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103926	Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103927	Does the rapporteur think that it would be safer for Omar Hussein and others to run around in our society; does the rapporteur feel more confident that perpetrators who bomb police stations and other things are still running around because we do not want increased surveillance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206103948	We have 1.5 million cameras in Denmark. We've had 13, 15 or 17 bomb blasts. You can check that out. And we've solved 2 or 3 of the bomb blasts that have occurred with 1.5 million cameras. So my question is: why should we give this false security to ourselves and the citizens by saying that if we set up another 300 cameras, terrorism will disappear; then crime will disappear? I say that we must have safer streets, that we must fight terrorism, that we must fight crime, but with real security, that is proof of that, and security, as the research says is in good old-fashioned police work and more officers and not in mass surveillance, where we compromise our freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104037	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. In this way we move forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jeppe Bruus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104058	Thank you. And thank you for the opportunity to have this debate with each other. I think it is absolutely essential, and that is why I think it is a good thing that the alternative has invited us to this question debate. I'm just gonna have to start somewhere a little different than I actually planned. Because when the alternative rapporteur stands here and says that television cameras had nothing to do with catching the terrorist who ran around the streets of Copenhagen, that is to say, it is vertically wrong. The TV cameras were a hero, crucial reason why that terrorist was stopped. What was actually the challenge for the police was that they needed time to find out where those cameras were hanging. They needed time to find out who owned those cameras and secure access to them. If the police had not worked intensively that night and stopped that terrorist, it could have gone much, much worse than it did. And it is evidence-based, because that is what underpins the whole evaluation of that effort that night, and therefore it is completely vertically wrong to claim something else. Anyway, in relation to the occasion for this debate, it is serious, just like what I was talking about here. For although we have falling crime, unfortunately more and more people are sitting in our detention houses and our prisons, typically gang members, criminal foreigners, etc. And that crime is becoming more and more ravaged, and it is also becoming more and more cross-border. It also moves on to the web and elsewhere and uses new technology, which is why it is of course perfectly obvious that the police must be able to follow in order to solve crime effectively. And one of the tools that is very effective is using TV cameras. And as image quality improves, it becomes more efficient. That is why it is obvious that television surveillance can help solve crime quickly and effectively and thus also create more security and security. So is surveillance an end in itself? No, it's a means, it's a tool for the police. What lies in the security and security package, which is also part of the reason why we are standing here today, is also about pursuing the crime where it is, namely also across the border in increased police cooperation between Denmark and Sweden and border controls and strengthening the penalties for explosives. Because we have seen a situation in the Copenhagen area where there have been a number of explosions; something which, unfortunately, is all too well known right across the border, in Sweden, where gang crime and explosions and murders and shootings are far more widespread than it is on our side of the border. We do not want that development, and that is also why we have taken an initiative to roll out a number of tools. So is it without dilemmas? No, it is not what I also think our Minister for Justice was quite brilliantly mentioned in his opening remarks here, i.e. that it is, of course, a dilemma. This is based on the fact that we are putting in place some of our own freedom in order to create common security and security and thus also freedom. But I also think that there is a tendency for things to be mixed up a little here. Well, 'cause it sounds like we're in and grab hold of our entire privacy; what we have within the house's own walls. That is not what we are talking about. It is not because we do not also have privacy when we are out in public space, but we are also out in public space, where we travel among others and therefore also need to find out how to ensure security and security there. And that is why, of course, it is a balance. For what is the goal is trust, security and security. And it is clear that there is also something in principle about the fact that when we are constantly moving along a path where technological development gives us more and more opportunities, we also have to keep it up to what kind of society we want to create. And it fits with that? And that is why I also saw that the rapporteur really had some difficulty in answering: should some cameras be removed? In other words, when you become so absolutely sure that it is not possible to do so, then you have to be able to answer: where does that limit go? And for me that limit is linked to what is the objective, namely: does it contribute to increased security, security and confidence? And finally, I can't get into that much in time here, so what I see is the biggest challenge compared to the time we are in, that we are deeply monitored inside the bedroom, when the iPhone is there and the app has turned on one camera and microphones and Google is transcribing everything else. There we get a huge task starting to look into it. Then I shall conclude by reading out a proposal for adoption, supported by the Social Democracy, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party. And it says: Proposals for adoption • The security and security of the Danes are a core priority, and all Danes must be able to move freely and safely everywhere in the country. The Folketing is particularly opposed to criminal behaviour that spreads insecurity in public spaces. We must never accept that bomb blasts become everyday in Denmark. It is important that the police follow developments in both crime and technology. Parliament stresses the importance of strengthening police capabilities to investigate crime in public spaces. The Danish Parliament notes that the police have sought initiatives to increase surveillance, which are of great value to the police's investigation of serious crime. The Folketing is aware that the balance between the right to privacy and the investigative utility must be taken into account. • V 25)
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104707	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption is part of the further negotiations. The first is sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104716	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's a bit like you're using the fear of terror... the few examples that have been in Denmark's long history... as a pretext for setting up cameras. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: should video surveillance be carried out in all public places, or where should video surveillance be set up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104751	There are, of course, a number of private companies that are currently monitoring, and this is being approved on a list. These are restaurants, they are in virgin Ane Gade, which we have mentioned, and gas stations etc. There we look at whether there are others in some industries that should have that opportunity. Then there are the public buildings, some of which today do not have cameras, but really should have them. They must take the initiative themselves and they can also be instructed to do so. For some of the bomb blasts we've seen, among other things. against my previous place of work in the Danish Tax Office, there is evidence that there has been a crime picture that has changed and a development that we want to slow down before it develops, as it does in Sweden. Then it is clear, as we mentioned in connection with the terrorist attack back in 2015 in Copenhagen, where cameras were completely, absolutely essential for stopping a terrorist, that this is, of course, a situation to which we have to relate can be a reality. I would say that we would be a really bad government and a really bad parliament if we did not also have a discussion on how to ensure the safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104903	The rapporteur is again using a scaremongering image of terrorism, which we all distance ourselves from. But how do we make sure we have surveillance footage and cameras up everywhere? Because we can't predict where terror is going on. If it is terrorism and crime that, as I hear it, is the main argument, how do we ensure that we have cameras up everywhere? Or how do we ensure that where the next terrorist attack or the next bomb blast is taking place, we have a surveillance camera? Is it everywhere in public space that we have to set up cameras? Or how do we ensure that? And if we can't precisely target the cameras, how does that provide security?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206104950	It's actually pretty crazy that I have to be accused of using a terrorist attack as a scare shot. Actually, I think it's pretty crazy. It's scary enough in itself, but it's pretty wild in such a debate. It is quite crazy that the alternative rapporteur can stand here in the Folketing and say that monitoring did not have a role to play. This is the reality we find ourselves in. Does that mean we can patch the whole country up with cameras and prevent a terrorist attack? No, it doesn't. No one has claimed that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105023	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105027	Thank you. After all, the debate here on monitoring is very much the result of the terrible explosions that have taken place here in the metropolitan area and that have then been presented with an element of monitoring as one of several initiatives. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur which of the initiatives in the safety and safety package it is felt could have prevented, for example, the explosion at the Tax Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105057	I mean, if you could have prevented it directly, it's hard to say. One can say about the investigation of the explosion at the Danish Tax Office that television surveillance was an important part of the reason why it went fast. The increased police cooperation between Denmark and Sweden, which has just focused on organised crime, should of course help to prevent some of the events that could potentially take place in the Copenhagen area. To ensure that there are severe penalties for the use of explosives and that it is regarded as an attack on the state if they are used against a public building, would like to prevent some from thinking that it might be exciting to see if we could intimidate some public authorities by launching an explosion and so on. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105147	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105148	Everything that is called cross-border cooperation can only be fully agreed is a good thing, and so we can also deeply regret that we have this legal relationship, which in many areas prevents cross-border cooperation in general. But did I not also hear the rapporteur say that it is now more doubtful what the other initiatives have to do with whether or not, as in the case of explosions, there is another crime? And is it not quite intrusive to make a very, very great restriction on the freedom of the Danes when one cannot really say whether it has an effect at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105225	Oh, now I think it's gonna be a little stubborn. Well, we clearly believe that this has an effect. That is what the police think, and it is on that basis that it is built. What I was asked was if I could guarantee that it didn't happen again. And, of course, I can't. However, it is clear that we have put forward these initiatives rather than allowing the police to prevent this happening also to stop the developments that are taking place and to be able to solve this kind of crime quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105250	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105253	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. Like the rapporteur, I am concerned about the monitoring carried out by Danes through our mobile phones. Because it's not only Google and other tech giants who record this, it's also our own, because our phone information is being logged. The European Union has then said: you must not do so, it is illegal. And I would really like to hear what the rapporteur is thinking, now that he is standing here saying that monitoring must ensure law and order, that we use it illegally ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105334	But we don't. It is true that there has been a judgment back in time that overruled the national implementation of the logging rules. On the other hand, another process is under way in the European Union, which means that there is an unresolved situation as to how the nation states should behave, and that is why the Danish position has been that we wait for clarification to be given so that, like other countries in the European Union, we can find out how we should adapt our national rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105403	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105404	It is just because I think it is a little strange that in this area EU law and the European Court of Justice are being applied a little as it suits you, because in other areas, social democracy is very concerned that we are complying with all EU rules and following all the things that come from the European Union. And that is why I have to say that I am very surprised that when there comes a judgment from the European Union where you do not like the content, they say: Uh, now we are just awaiting it. In other words, does the rapporteur not see that this is a little bit strange?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105436	Now, I get a question from the Enhedslisten about why we are so concerned about the European Union and why we do not follow the European Union to the letter. Well, maybe I could smile about that and think about it, too, could be a little weird. However, as I tried to explain, it is true that there has been a judgment back in time which has problematized the rules we had. On the other hand, there are also some other decisions on the way, which will probably come next summer, and so we are waiting for the outcome. And I actually think that's very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105510	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for any further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206105531	I would like, on an equal footing with the Socialist rapporteur, to begin by rejecting some of the points made by the Alternative rapporteur. I have to say that I think it is a direct disrespect to the work of the police, but also to the fact that, in this way, we are really neglecting the work of the police in connection with the terrorist attack in Copenhagen and the very, very rapid investigation and the very, very good police work that was carried out. Having said that, I think it is a very relevant debate that has been raised by the alternative here today, and I should therefore also like to thank you for that. There is no doubt that monitoring is a difficult size for many, and it is also for us in the Left, because on the one hand it is absolutely crucial that we can move around freely without constantly being looked over the shoulder, but on the other hand it is also important that we can feel safe when we move around in the open space. And for the Left and probably for everyone else, it's all about finding the balance between these two considerations. For us it is certainly not an end in itself to increased monitoring, but it has proved necessary. We listen to the police when they call for tools in their work on solving, including video surveillance and other issues. An example that we have seen is video surveillance, for example. was decisive in addition to the terrorist attack, which we have already discussed a lot here today was when four men associated with the gang Brothers were convicted of attempted murder of a 26-year-old man. As part of the gang war between Brothers and the group from Blågårds Plads, there was an attempt to kill Ali Bakery in Heimdalsgade on Nørrebro. Both in the yard in front of and inside the bakery, surveillance cameras were set up. Large parts of the attack were therefore caught on video surveillance. This attack could hardly have been avoided because of the cameras, but there is no doubt that the attempt to kill was caught on video surveillance, and therefore it was also a very, very important part of the investigation itself. And it also turned out to be a heavy piece of evidence in the trial, in fact, probably the heaviest. As the Socialist rapporteur, Mr København, has also done, I think, a great deal of work. Jep Bruus, mentioned just before, was hit by a series of bomb blasts, among others. at the Tax Office at Østerbro, but also at a local police station at Nørrebro. We must never and never must accept that bomb explosions become everyday life in Denmark. I don't hear the alternative saying that either. But having said that, Denmark should not be Sweden, and Copenhagen should not be Malmø. We should not allow criminal groups to place bombs around public spaces and shoot around on public roads and streets. It is the view of the Left that, overall, we can create more security and freedom if we give the police better tools to do their job and thus also the opportunity to look after all of us. Of course, we must constantly consider whether we are going too close to privacy with more television surveillance and monitoring online. In the perfect world, which unfortunately does not exist, there would be no need for the state to monitor its citizens in some situations. But we must also not be naive about the crime picture that we are seeing today, with a deep outburst in the criminal environments where there is no respect for the surrounding society. We must and must do something about this. But, of course, fence posts that mark who and when are monitored are also important. It is then our responsibility here in the Folketing to set that framework. Similarly, we must also ensure the necessary supervision to ensure that the data collected is properly processed and stored. That is some of what I think we will be discussing a lot when we come to the security package. With those words, I can say that the Left supports the proposal for adoption which Mr. Jeppe Bruus as Social Democratic rapporteur just now read out. And I should also like to welcome the new citizens and say that they also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110035	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110039	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let me start by saying that if I have in any way formulated myself as if I or the alternative had mistrust of the police, I would like to make it quite clear that we do not. You are tanned politicians while I am new here, and it may be that I have put myself wrong; I regret that to everyone. Then I would like to ask Mrs Inger Støjberg a question. Mrs Inger Støjberg says that video surveillance has an investigative value... I think we all acknowledge that in the debate in here... but how will Mrs Inger Støjberg justify a mass surveillance of everyone in order to catch the individual criminal? That is just like what I think is at the heart of the whole debate. So could Mrs. Inger Støjberg explain that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110133	If I have to say this quite clearly, I believe that the only person who has talked about mass monitoring of everyone and about China and all sorts of scary examples is the rapporteur from the alternative. I think that everyone else has taken a very, very sensible approach to this. The Minister started by saying that this is, of course, a question of constantly balancing by ensuring the best opportunities for solving crimes, but does not know that we are all being looked over our shoulders day in and day out. That is exactly what the Socialist rapporteur says, and I am saying the same thing now. The only person I have heard in the Chair today is the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is a little strange indeed. So I would say that for us this is not a matter of mass surveillance. This is a matter of using surveillance wisely. And no, I, as the alternative rapporteur, do not believe that it necessarily prevents crime, but it solves crime much more quickly. We could, among other things. look at the terrorist attack, and that helped to create security for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110246	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110248	It is quite true that I have mentioned mass surveillance. It is also quite true that I say that I do not want a Scandinavian China, and that is because we have a camera for one in four Danes in Denmark. Well, if it's not mass surveillance, what is it? If it isn't mass surveillance, when we want to patch up the public room with additional cameras, then you can monitor everyone not just the criminals, not just terrorists. Then I would like to ask Mrs Inger Støjberg whether we in the Folketing should not place more emphasis on preventing crime than we do today, rather than setting up cameras to solve crime once it has been committed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110345	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110347	But these are some strange contradictions that are being raised from the point of view of the alternative. Somehow I would like to try to attend a group meeting with the Alternative once, that is, just to see what on earth is going on in the Alternative. These must be some very strange debates sometimes. I mean, for me, it is not a question of whether more crime should be committed, which, in turn, needs to be solved more quickly. No, we have to reduce the rate of crime, but we also have to deal with reality, that there is a raison d'être in the criminal environments; the fact that the criminal environments are using other methods. And that is why the police must also have tools to counter it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110427	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110431	Thank you for that, and also thank the rapporteur for the fine speech which very well shows that there is this balance between the various considerations in this matter between security and freedom. However, I would like to ask if the rapporteur, in this context, is inclined to believe that this extra arbitrary mass surveillance is going to take place, so well understand that there is a little wonder as to how the view in this particular case is related to the fact that the party represented by the rapporteur calls himself the Left, the Liberal Party of Denmark in its full name.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110511	I was hurrying to skim my speech and I simply do not see that the concept of arbitrary mass surveillance appears anywhere in my speech. That is why I have such a feeling that it may be part of some conflict with the Radical Left. It is, of course, many years ago that we were seriously in conflict, and then I know that we have had a bit like that since then. The Left and the Radical Left have had a history together, but happily we were separated in time. However, I have to say that arbitrary mass surveillance is not something we want from the Left, and I think that is what I said very, very clearly in my speech. We must have surveillance where it is useful, where we can ensure the Danes better, where we can feel safer, by monitoring. Honestly, I think that the young person who goes home from a Christmas lunch this weekend is often quite happy that there is also monitoring on train stations, on S-trains and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110614	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110619	I think that is a welcome new note from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, if you do not resort to arbitrary mass surveillance. I'll sign for that. I would like to ask: where is the limit for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, for mass surveillance? When will it be too much for the Left? When do we think we should not go any further, now is the concern for citizens' rights that we need to take more account of?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110649	It's about finding a balance. We should not all be looked over our shoulders as soon as we go out of the street; we should not be China; that is clear, and that is not what the government's proposal is about, which we are going to discuss here in the Chamber of Parliament, or what has been said by the bourgeois parties, and which later today is said by the bourgeois parties. That is not the point of the proposal for adoption either. But it must also be the case that the police can solve the crimes that are happening, because it also helps to create security, but hopefully it will also help to solve them, and that is where it will be difficult to ensure that fewer attacks are committed, for example. However, I fully recognise that there is no way through cameras to ensure that there is no attack, but a camera can often ensure that the attack is solved more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110738	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish Liberal Party, the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Bendixen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206110752	Thank you. As the Minister for Justice says, it cannot be a debate about whether you are for or against. We have some balance in it, and I believe, like the Minister, that it is a little important that we try in here to bury the hatchet and not speak for or against, but, on the contrary, try to find out how we find each other in some context. The fight against crime has to be very high on Parliament's agenda, but of course there has to be a balance so that the individual citizen does not feel supervised twenty-four seven. Having said that, you are actually being watched all the time on your iPhone, your computer, social media, and there you can talk about mass surveillance. As Parliament, we have, and we must not say obscene words, so I am just saying a great duty to listen to the police when they want increased surveillance when they want facial recognition and whatever else they want. We in the Danish People's Party do not believe that we in this House can be aware of this. We believe that we must provide the police with all the necessary resources to combat criminal acts. Does the mass surveillance that then happens on social media and all sorts of other places have to be a stop for us to act here in the Folketing and give the police, for example, increased surveillance or cameras with facial recognition? No, it shouldn't. Security and trust are high on the agenda of the Danish People's Party. We are therefore also, knowing that there will be negotiations on a security package, all the other equally sorry that no crown has been set aside for the police in the Finance Act. It may then also surprise us when you mention from the Alternative that you would like to have more officers on the streets. We support that in the Danish People's Party that you have not set aside money in the Finance Act that you yourself have been involved in making for that very thing. We would very much like to continue talking to the other parties about increased surveillance and facial recognition, and we are also very much looking forward to the further negotiations, as well as the adoption text that was read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111009	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111017	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the rapporteur rightly points out, it is precisely the balance that we would like to have debated today. We have these 1.5 million cameras, and now we want additional cameras up, and at some point we want facial recognition technology. What worries us is where the limit goes, that is. the balance. Will we continue to expand this mass surveillance and facial recognition technology as crime increases? That is exactly the balance that we would like to debate. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: is there a limit? Is there a limit where we say: stop, now we simply compromise too much with our freedoms and we cannot go further in terms of monitoring?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111112	I do not think that the debate should be raised in this way, in other words, in relation to where the limit goes. Because we haven't, like, reached an upper limit yet. And when we in the Danish People's Party hear about bomb blasts at Nørrebro, at the Danish Tax Authority and at the local police, we certainly have no limit at all. And there must of course be cooperation with the police on where there is a need for increased surveillance. Because just because you do it on Nørrebro doesn't mean that you do it in Esbjerg. So, of course, it has to be a kind of supply and demand, among other things. in cooperation with the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111140	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111144	We have to talk about a limit, because in the alternative we think we have reached the limit. We have reached the limit, because with 1.5 million cameras we have solved 2 or 3 of 13 bomb blasts, and that is why we do not believe that this is the way forward. If there was research and if there was evidence that this was the way we should go in terms of preventing crime and preventing these bombings from happening, we would of course have looked at it differently. So I have to ask the rapporteur once again: can there be a time when crime has reached a level where the Danish People's Party says that then we must compromise on our freedoms because we have bomb blasts and the other examples that may now be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111240	We should not be seduced by the fact that a facial recognition camera can help prevent a bomb blast or an act of terrorism. It can't. This can help to speed up the investigation and make it much easier for the police, and I think it's a little important that you just deal with it. And we have to give the police what we can of resources to have the most effective investigation, and there is no upper limit for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111305	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111308	Thank you. I would also like to ask what resources we give the police to prevent crime. Because I understand from the Danish People's Party that it is believed that more monitoring can be a good tool. I believe that more close police can be a good tool. And in the last police reform, the rapporteur's party helped to centralise the police, so there was less close police, so we who live on Nørrebro experience that there is less near police. So I would really just like to ask the Danish People's Party whether they will be involved in the forthcoming police negotiations in order to ensure that there is more local police.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111349	Then I have to point out again that preventing crime doesn't make cameras. A camera helps solve the crime, and we just think it's pretty important. Then it is clear that more police in the streets can help prevent crime and, as I said to the rapporteur of the alternative, we fully support that. That's why we don't understand why you don't have it in your Finance Act. In relation to the future negotiations, I will leave it up to our legal rapporteur, Mr. Peter Skaarup, but I don't think we're gonna be a block for more police in the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111417	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111420	Thank you. Then I would just like to clarify a little, because I think that there is a big difference between more police in the streets and more near police. For the near police are cops, you know, it's staff that the people who live in the area know, where more police in the streets can then be cops who are being moved around from all over the country. And then the police won't be able to do the preventive relationship work that we believe we need to do. So it is actually more a matter of a near police than it is a question of more officers on the street. And there I hear that the Danish People's Party is to talk to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111500	It is almost always the Danish People's Party. And we also like the idea of more police. But now it is Mrs Rosa Lund and Mrs Rosa Lund's party that are helping to end the funding, so if you bring us a bag of money, we will be happy to come to coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for any further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206111528	Strawberry stall's got video surveillance. That's what Mette Frederiksen said in her opening speech to this parliamentary year. It sounded like a scare picture on Denmark, but shortly afterwards the government just proposed a roll-out of massive mass monitoring under the slogan: What drives me as Prime Minister is a desire to look after Denmark; if I do, we have to use some of the things that we have not previously had either need or desire to do. I think that is a creepy approach and I can only be dreaded by the week before Friday the 13th, what will come out of it. Because we all have a completely sincere desire to look after Denmark, but there is no need to do things we neither need nor want to do. For what happened to the vision of a strawberry stand free from surveillance, where the box can stand freely? What happened to trust? Has monitoring of the strawberry stand now become the ambition instead of the scare picture? Would I buy strawberries in that booth where there are cameras hanging around? No, I wouldn't, I would think: what on earth is this place where you can't do that without a camera on your neck? What's it to the camera to film while I care what strawberries are ripe? It's supposed to create security, that's the explanation. The truth is that crime in Denmark is falling sharply. According to Statistics Denmark, the number of break-ins has decreased from 115,000 in 2009 to 75,000 in 2019, and in 1998 135,000 crimes were reported, which had fallen to less than 90,000 in 2018. The number of prisoners has fallen from over 25,000 in 1990 to 15,500 in 2018. It's progressing. Thank you very much to the police for all the effort. That is the kind of thing to celebrate, so perhaps they should be rewarded with a strawberry cake or the first freshly picked strawberries in the spring. Why should the time be right now for massive mass monitoring with an English model? I don't understand. And should the answer to any new crime just be that more new cameras need to be set up? I don't think so. I am not blind to the explosions that have taken place in the metropolitan area, nor to the hard-boiled gang crime. The experts have been out to say that camera surveillance is precisely not the solution to the kind of crime that is gaining ground. It has not solved anything in England, so why should it especially be in Denmark that it was the kind of crime it solved? Because it is easy to bypass mass surveillance, unfortunately, with hoodies and hats.The criminals are often one step ahead of us and we already have 1.5 million cameras in Denmark equivalent to one for about every four Danes. How much extra is needed to make us feel secure? Therefore, the roll-out of additional massive mass surveillance is just false security, where you could put in temporary and targeted on selected sites instead of just answering any crime with any clinging of cameras. Cameras on every corner of the street and at the jorberry stall suspect innocent Danes. It creates insecurity and is a wrong political escalation in a situation where crime has actually fallen. That is why I also welcome the fact that, in a recent reply, the Minister of Justice, among other things. can indicate that facial technology is certainly not the way forward, and I hope that is a line one continues. Because if you go in that direction, the victims just become the strawberry-eating Danes, and that can't be the solution to anything. But doesn't it matter when you have nothing to hide? often sounds. But to say that you don't care about surveillance because you have nothing to hide is to say that you don't care about freedom of expression because you have nothing to say. So let us look at our freedoms and about the jorberry stall on the side of the road without video surveillance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112028	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112034	Thank you. First of all, I would like to reassure the rapporteur that Friday the 13th is not for a week, so I think the rapporteur can take it quite calmly today. The words random, arbitrary and English models are mentioned several times, and now I am standing here with the security and security package, and I have just checked, and I simply do not see that there is random and arbitrary. On the other hand, I can see an initiative to which I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comment: compulsory registration of television surveillance, which is about us actually getting the cameras hanging there and, of course, also hanging correctly and legally. Would the rapporteur and the Radical Left not agree that this is actually a step towards creating a more overview and less coincidence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112123	There are two initiatives in this big package that are excellent and sensible. This is the thing about increased border cooperation and the thing about getting control of the cameras that are. However, when there is arbitrary and arbitrary extra mass surveillance of these initiatives, it is of course the result of the fact that it is impossible to say whether the increase in the number of cameras will lead to the crime not being committed. And when you can't say it, then it's arbitrariness and coincidence when you set them up. That is what has been indicated by saying that we cannot say anything about whether the crimes are repeated or not; so they are arbitrary actions in relation to very serious situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112202	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112206	After all, this is an initiative and a series of initiatives that strengthen the investigation and the investigation. And then there is a preventive initiative in that, one might say, which is also about strengthening police cooperation and ensuring that the penalties for the possession of explosives are increased. The fact that there is a camera in itself may also be preventative. There is no one who pretends that it prevents compared to a whole lot of the most hardcore types. And then, as I mentioned here, there are a number of initiatives that are actually about getting the cameras that are hanging there. Now the rapporteur repeats the words arbitrarily and randomly, and then we may disagree, but I am thinking that the Radical Left will support that part of the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112255	When the questioner himself states that it cannot be said that this extra amount of cameras will prevent particularly the hardcore crime, which is what you want to hit and which is why you came out with these proposals; after all, it came in the wake of these very serious explosions that were where these proposals came out. So when you can't say they're the ones they're preventing, it's a arbitrariness, so it's not something you say: now we have to stop this crime. Then it is arbitrariness and coincidence that it is just the tool one chooses from more cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112353	I think today's debate is important, and I am glad that the Alternative has raised this debate.Thank you for that, because it is about what society we want and how much we will allow when it comes to the supervision of authorities and private individuals. Where does the limit really go in relation to freedoms? Here it is clear that I would prefer it to be the authorities that monitor but within a set of rules where the conditions are clear; where the supervised has rights; and where there is a certain degree of independent control and a system of redress. We saw a few years ago how SE and Hør abused the opportunities to monitor celebrity through their Dankort. The other day I read about many stalker apps that can be installed on our phones and that have become a problem for women exposed to violence, because that way they can be monitored by their partners. This type of surveillance is completely wild west, and I think we can all agree that this is highly unacceptable and problematic, and, by its very nature, it is rarely covered by the guarantees provided by the monitoring by the authorities. Does that mean that we have to allow the authorities all kinds of monitoring if, for example, we do so? can streamline the work of the police and save a great many resources to get a new monitoring technology, such as: facial recognition that can make anything easier? I do not think so. There is not only a concern to take into account the effectiveness of the police; there is indeed also a concern to take into account the rights of freedom, the right not to be monitored. I think that sometimes we get a little too technology-optimistic and fascinated and forget to take a fundamental debate on what kind of society we want, and then we may not get the necessary control built in. We saw this in its utmost consequence in the teledata case, where citizens' teledata became uncertain evidence in legal proceedings because they forgot to question their accuracy and control them. We therefore need to have a much more fundamental debate on the balance between privacy and the need to be able to carry out necessary investigations. Does this mean that the police should never have new tools? No, it doesn't. The criminals arm themselves, and the police must do so too. And that is why we must constantly give the police new opportunities for investigation, but we must never forget the principles of warrant, control and legal certainty. That is why, in fact, I am very pleased that, in the wake of the tele-data scandal, the Minister for Justice has announced a new independent supervision of not only the use of tele-data but also of plate scanners and cameras. But let us also take a look at the monitoring package, because it is the one that is also behind the debate here today and that came in the wake of the bombings in Copenhagen. I think I must be honest in saying that I think the Prime Minister has oversold the message a little bit. I think she can be very pleased with the headline in Berlingske on the day that was about mass surveillance or massive surveillance or what it was like. And I personally also think that she has had a rather wild rhetoric that we should use tools that we have never seen before. Because if we look at the package, what do we see? More cameras? Well, there will be 300 more on top of the 1.5 million we already have. What about the license plate scanners? We already have them, so that is nothing new either. Then it is true that the police must be able to follow surveillance footage live and look at surveillance photos while it is happening, in real time. This could be used during a terrorist attack, and it may be a little controversial, but I actually feel that it would be okay if we could limit it to the most serious crimes and there would be a court order; and I have the impression that this is the balance that the Minister of Justice is also trying to maintain here. I predict that the SF can support some of the tools, but we haven't seen the legislative proposals yet. That is why I would also like to stress that I cannot give a definitive undertaking here today about everything that is on the table. It will also depend to a large extent on the consultation responses and the drafting of the legislative proposals. Finally, I would just like to say that we must not pretend that surveillance creates security and prevents crime. Research shows that it does not. However, we need to recognise that this is a good investigative tool, which is why we must of course use it when it is limited to certain types of crime and there is a court order. Of course, the police must be able to investigate, and we saw exactly in connection with the bombing at the Danish Treasury, how cameras were an important investigative tool in that case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112840	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112851	That was a bit of everything the rapporteur had said, but I think that a few of the comments that were repeated at the end were that monitoring should be limited to relevant crimes and that there should be a court order. Well, the court order doesn't get you until you have a suspicion. And does that mean that all the other places where cameras have been set up need to be tampered with? This is the case here in the Folketing, for example, where you have no suspicion, hopefully then, that any crime should be under way. Well, I can't really understand the comment about delimiting it to situations where a court order is required. This is an investigative tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112930	Well, it may be that I expressed myself unclearly, but everything that is going on on the cameras here, there is no one sitting there watching. But if a case arises, you pull a court order; you come and justify why there is a case, and then you catch up and use it as evidence in a trial. And I actually think that's a really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112950	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206112953	Well, it's too late if there's a case that's a wrong order. The case arises because the police find that there has been a crime, via the cameras, and thus suspects a particular person. The rapporteur therefore assumes the opposite, and I cannot really understand that, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113019	I don't understand the disagreement at all, and I think we're talking past each other. Because it is clear that if something has happened, the police say: we have to look at what is on those cameras. Then they'll have a case, too, and then they'll get a warrant. And I think that principle is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113044	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the alternative for calling this important debate. Thank you, too, to the Minister for Justice for the very nuanced presentation. I also think that there were some fine considerations, although we may disagree a little on which side the considerations should tip. For I mean, as we believe in the Enhedslisten, Denmark is heading for a very dangerous road, which our Prime Minister has led with what she herself has called massively increased monitoring of the Danes. The purpose of this is to look after Denmark. The only problem is that a massive surveillance society cannot take care of citizens or provide us with the security we want. In my optics, people are being criminalised and suspicious of this increase in mass surveillance, at the same time as it threatens fundamental legal principles. In fact, I would like to start by talking about this with confidence, because it is not monitoring that creates security in our society. That's some other stuff. I have noticed that the government calls its surveillance package "Security and security in public spaces," and on the front page there are even two police officers, so you can really see how safe you are from this package. One gets the impression that those of us who do not like the package do not want greater security in Denmark, and that the legislative package actually means that we get some more cops and local police officers where I live at Nørrebro. I'm afraid that's just not quite right. It would be nice if it meant that we had a few more cops, but I can at least guarantee that this does not mean that those of us who are opposed to this package do not care about security. For security is absolutely essential for a society. In fact, I would venture to claim that security is a socialist priority. As a leftist, one of the most important things for me is to ensure that my fellow human beings have a good and secure environment to live in. And that is why we in Enhedslisten have always been at the forefront of the work of a secure society, where you are not threatened by violence in your family, at your school and on the street, no matter what skin color, religion or sexuality you have, or gender for that matter. I've fought for a spacious welfare community... we have that in the Enhedslisten... where there is money for the educator, police officer and nurse to have time and profit to help the individual citizen at eye level. But I also believe that security applies in legal policy, where ordinary people should be allowed to move around Denmark without the police constantly monitoring and recording their behaviour. This is how we make each other safe, by meeting each other, by trusting each other and by being together in strong communities. Security is not 1.5 million cold surveillance cameras and automatic algorithms that record our faces. Security is meeting a friendly face. It has also been shown that it is not a scare picture when the Prime Minister speaks of the fact that the strawberry stall at the side of the road, as many of us know, has been given a surveillance camera. It was for me, but it seems that for the government it was some kind of role model, and I think that is actually a bit depressing. We have also spoken about this in today's debate. It has been shown time and time again that mass monitoring has no preventive effect. Mass surveillance doesn't stop drunk people in nightlife from fighting. They do not think their crime through, but act spontaneously because they are influenced by one thing or another. And mass surveillance doesn't prevent planned crime either, because planned crime can find a way around the cameras' spotlights. On the other hand, there are a few studies that indicate that monitoring creates more insecurity because ordinary people think that their neighborhood is dangerous if it is monitored. In other words, we need quite different means. Face recognition on 1.5 million cameras that are constantly watching us has profoundly frightening perspectives. If we look around the world, the tracks from other countries that have chosen this path, that is, frightening to me. It scares me a lot to hear about the way you use surveillance in the United States, the way you use surveillance in China, and the way you use surveillance in England. I am not saying that anyone in here wants it; I am just saying that it is certainly not a model. I would have said something about logging in the end, but I can't do that, I can see that. So I just want to emphasise that I believe that it is welfare and legal certainty that gives us security. It's not surveillance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113549	There's a comment from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113557	I am a little confused, because I have the Financial Law Agreement, and there is a separate paragraph that calls for increased use of ANPG, i.e. automatic license plate recognition camera. The Government, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative agree to increase the use of ANPG cameras. The cameras will be able to strengthen the police's efforts in the heavy-duty area. Apparently it doesn't matter if you do surveillance, I understand. That's pure words for the money. However, could the rapporteur not clarify whether there was to be this kind of monitoring was something that Enhedslisten fought for during the negotiations or whether it was something that Enhedslisten got dragged over his head? When I hear the speech, it bears the hallmark of the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113646	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113650	Thank you for the question. In addition to the fact that we in the Enhedslist are engaged in the right to privacy, we are also very concerned about stopping social dumping. Automatic license plate recognition has just proved to be a very effective tool. That's why we've agreed to it in this finance agreement. But I can assure you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen says that it has been important for Enhedslisten that you have not tampered with the fences that also exist today, about the automatic license plate recognition, which is about erasing deadlines and how long the police may keep these things. But otherwise it is quite right of the Left that they are two principles of the Enhedslisten, which in some way come against each other a little, and that is sometimes the case in politics. And here we have said that we have set up some fences for the right to privacy so that these things do not lie with the police forever, while at the same time giving the police more equipment in the fight against social dumping. This is important for us in the Enhedslisten, and it is important for our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113747	Thank you. Here we go again, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113750	I just note that, in the view of Enhedslisten, heavy goods vehicles and crimes in this area are crimes which are far worse than the rest of the criminal code, because there is Enhedslisten going against this kind of surveillance. It can be done if it's in the heavy duty cart area. I think that is a rather strange priority. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113815	Now it is not the case that we rank crime in this way, either in the Finance Act or in here. You know, if you commit something criminal, you commit something criminal, and you have to be punished for that. It has just turned out that in the heavy goods vehicle sector, cabotage, automatic license plate recognition is a very good tool. We have listened to that. Then we have said: OK, here you can actually use them. We have also listened to that monitoring, for example. virgin Ane Gade, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen mentioned earlier, has not acted preventively in terms of assault, but it has worked in the investigation of the attacks. That is what we are listening to. But that does not seem to us to be an argument for us to be able to set up more cameras all over the place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113853	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Inger Støjberg, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113856	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on that a little bit. Because I think this is a really interesting discussion. I can say that in the Left we will stop both terrorists and social dumping. We want to take action against both. Having said that, I would really like to go into more detail with evidence-based research, or whatever it must be, so that exactly in the heavy goods vehicle sector monitoring is something that works. Now that I'm hearing Mr. Knox... Preben Bang Henriksen come with his experiences from the city court about violence and rape, and that you get those cases solved much faster, then that's a good argument for me to have cameras set up in Virgin Ane Gade. But I would like to know the background for why it should work very well and preventively with cameras in the heavy-duty area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206113957	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114001	First of all, I would like to welcome the Left in the fight against social dumping and in order to ensure a proper level of pay in our labour market. I think that's just nice. All we know from the police themselves is that automatic license plate recognition has been a powerful tool on this issue, and we are listening to that, just as I am listening to it, and I can repeat it for Mrs Inger Støjberg, who listens to it. Preben Bang Henriksen says this makes a difference in the city court in Aalborg. But I have to say that I doubt that it has made a difference in relation to rape cases, where we see very few convictions. However, video surveillance is an important investigative tool for the police, which I also think several of the rapporteurs and myself, who are critical of monitoring, recognise. That is why we are not saying that all cameras throughout Denmark should be tampered with. We're just saying that maybe there's enough already.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114055	Thank you. Mrs. Inger Støjberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114058	Yes, yes, but now we have spent a lot of time here today, that it should be evidence-based when you set up cameras, and I understand that it should only be if it is about people who can be subjected to violence and rape, and terrorists and something like that. Then we'll need some evidence-based research. But if it is the heavy goods vehicle area, it is something quite different, because then it is enough that you do not doubt it, that you think it works, that you have heard from the police, that it works. We have not just heard from the police that it might work when it comes to solving a terrorist attack, but we know that. So I simply cannot understand the distinction that Enhedslisten is making here, in other words that it is enough precisely in the heavy goods vehicle area that one believes or that one does not doubt it, but that if it is terrorism it is a completely different matter, because then we must have some evidence-based research before we can set up some cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114154	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114158	I feel as if Mrs Inger Støjberg and I are in two different places and I know that we are but we are not hearing the same things today either. However, I would like to repeat it because I think I actually said quite clearly that we in the Enhedslist recognise that it is an important investigative tool for the police. I just don't think any more cameras are what stop terrorism so preventively. I think these are some other things, and I would very much like to discuss that with Mrs Inger Støjberg. As I also discussed earlier with the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I believe that if we take action far earlier on those whom we fear can be radicalised, we can stop a great deal of terrorism. However, this requires that we give priority to some efforts in primary school and in the socially vulnerable residential areas, and I am not sure that Mrs Inger Støjberg's party will be involved in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114250	Sir. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114255	I would like to continue a little along these lines, because I think it is actually very interesting. We can, for example. Take the example of the gangs. One of the points in the proposal is that the police should have the opportunity to set up some cameras themselves and keep up in order also to address some of the situations we have seen in some places in Copenhagen. Then we'll take action against a type of crime, and we'll give the police some investigative options. It is exactly as we have done in the Finance Act, which has been mentioned here, in relation to social dumping. Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not explain to me why it is okay to take action against social dumping, but that it is not okay that the police get some more cameras they can put in against gang crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114334	Yeah, well, I can certainly try. I don't believe any more cameras will work against the gangs. I'd really like to help give the police a lot of tools to get rid of gang crime. Actually, there's nothing I'd rather do. I live at Nørrebro, so often I feel like I live in the middle of the gang conflict. And I actually think that some of what will work is more police on the street, cops that we, who live on Nørrebro, know, and that we are comfortable going to, and that we trust and can talk to all those things that we can put in front of the gangs, so that there will be a massive effort in the youth clubs on Nørrebro. We must ensure that youth clubs are actually open, so that what is called the younger brother generation is not just hanging out at Blågårds Plads. Actually, I think we could do a lot. But I do not believe that any more cameras will stop gang crime, because I think it will mean that we will have the situation that we have in London, where people then just look down into the ground with the hood over their heads. I fully share the ambition to stop gang crime. Actually, there's practically nothing I'd rather do. I just don't think this is what works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114437	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114441	Now it gets really interesting, because I agree with all the preventive measures. But you just answered Mrs. Inger Støjberg that the reason why this whole social dumping thing is good is that you also trust the police's assessment that it's effective. Here the police say that it is also effective if we take action against the gangs. Why is it that when the police say it's effective against the gangs, it's not good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114502	Thank you. Pay attention to the fact that you do not use direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114505	That is because I still need some concrete evidence that it works. There, I think, we have something heavier in terms of license plate recognition and in the fight against social dumping than we have here with regard to gang crime. I just don't think it's gonna stop gang crime. But I'm very, very happy to listen to what the police have to do with this. But I also hear the police say that they would like to make a more continuous effort where there is gang crime, but they cannot, because it is police officers from all over the country who are being sent around the country, just as we are looking at Christiania, where we also have major problems with gang crime, probably because some things are being dealt with on which the gang economy is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114554	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114559	There is, of course, a very exciting thread running through this, and I think I will continue a little as the Socialist rapporteur. In other words, what weighs more heavily than in the area of heavy growth, for example. the area of gang crime or terror? And what evidence does the rapporteur have in the field of heavy-duty meat, which is not available in the other area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114618	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114621	We are just saying that in the field of social dumping we can very clearly see that automatic license plate recognition is a really important weapon in the fight against social dumping. We've got plenty of surveillance cameras today. We can also see that in relation to the terrible terrorist attack we've been talking about before in here, bomb blasts. There were some cameras that had caught something. I'm not saying there can never be a camera. I'm just saying I don't see a need for more surveillance and more cameras.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114656	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114701	It may be that the rapporteur does not see a need for increased monitoring, but the police do, so why not listen to the police? Why is it that you want to listen to them in one situation but not in the other? Then it is about what the rapporteur thinks and not what the police really think. And considering it's not gonna stop gang crime, no, it's not gonna stop gang crime. But it's going to help the police investigate it, and that's the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114720	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114726	Well, in the Enhedslisten, we're very interested in stopping gang crime. We would very much like to have a dialogue on how we do this. And that is where I think we need to use some very different tools than what we are doing today. For what we have actually done over the last ten years with increased surveillance and stricter penalties has not stopped the gang war and it has not stopped gang crime. So it must be time to use some other tools, I think we should do that very seriously. We also always want to listen to the police, we always want to. And I am also listening to the debate that has been going on in here, and we are taking that with us. But exactly automatic license plate recognition we've just seen is a good tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114805	Then there is no further comment on Mrs Rosa Lund. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206114815	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, it is a matter of the heart that you as a citizen of Danish society must be able to feel safe when travelling in public spaces. In recent times, unfortunately, we have witnessed bomb blasts, car burns and shootings in the streets. We must never accept that these serious crimes become everyday. The perpetrators must never feel safe, and we must take action to catch the guilty and hold them accountable for their actions. Monitoring has proved to be a good tool for this very purpose in several cases. Back in 2015, when Copenhagen was hit by a terrible terrorist attack and two innocent people lost their lives, the surveillance cameras proved their existence. According to the police's own report, the use of the surveillance images was crucial to the success of apprehending and killing the terrorist Omar el-Hussein within a relatively short period of time as they write. That means that if it hadn't been for the surveillance cameras, the terrorist action would have lasted longer and been bloodier. I think that is important to emphasise. I am really annoyed that those who have put the question debate today have not sat down with the details and the statement made by the police about this terrorist operation, so without the surveillance camera, we would have had a much, much more serious terrorist operation. The photos the police sent out when they wanted the terrorist were crucial to getting on track of him. For the Conservative People's Party, it is of course important that citizens continue to have the right to privacy and that the authorities focus on this very issue. But the surveillance we have today does not conflict with the right to privacy. On the other hand, it helps the police solve crimes and bring the perpetrators to justice. We also uphold freedoms and freedom of society. We have to do the same. We are also fighting that battle in the Conservative People's Party. But it does not stand in opposition to the surveillance of criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115050	Thank you. There are a few comments. It's first, sir. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115059	Thank you to the President, thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that the rapporteur is a little sad that we have not got to the point where the powder keg is concerned. However, as I have pointed out earlier, this is relatively new to me, and that is why I had the wrong wording. I'm sorry about that again. I used to. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur about facial recognition technology: does the Conservative People's Party favour facial recognition technology?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115138	We are in favour of the tools that the police are asking for in specific cases. And if the police ask for it, we'll accept it. The police are the experts in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115147	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115153	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there is a limit to what the police can ask for before it violates our freedoms, or whether there is no limit for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115212	So we live in an open and democratic society where we have democratic control over our police. I have great faith in our police. I simply cannot imagine them asking us for anything that conflicts with our democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115229	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115232	Thank you. In a speech this week in Berlingske, former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Culture, Per Stig Møller, criticises a recent comment by Mr Stig Møller. Rasmus Jarlov, who describes a number of fundamental freedoms as fine French principles. Can the rapporteur say anything about whether Per Stig Møller is wrong in that criticism or how to deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115258	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115303	I read a lot of what Per Stig Møller writes, he's a smart man, but I haven't read that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115307	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115312	Then I could be tempted to ask follow-up whether the rapporteur thinks that absolutely fundamental rights are fine French principles, or whether this is something that we really need to be careful and genuinely cherish.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115329	It is extremely important that we stick to our rule of law and our legal status it is fundamental for us Conservatives. At the same time, it is also important to come after the criminals and terrorists, and that is one of them. Therefore, that we do not want Islamic State terrorists to come back to Denmark. Then it will be even more relevant to monitor those dangerous types.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115358	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The Left has spoken for New Citizens, and the Liberal Alliance is not present, so that is why it is the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115414	Thank you, President. Thank you for a really good debate, in which there was both some content and also what I think we all like: some of those sharp comments and clever remarks and fun, where there are some who are just getting caught on the wrong foot when you stand up here. I really do not think, and I am not saying this at all to start it, that when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur spoke of automatic license plate recognition, it is because we all agree that this is a balance and that, as it were, there is no such thing and now I have to come back to the Alternative and the Radical Left saying that we should not have any surveillance. In other words, we recognize that there are principles that are weighing up against each other, and that is what happens when we say that the automatic registration of one person is so important that one wants to cut a little off that immediate freedom. That is, in fact, what has gone through in the comments, most emphatically, I think, on the part of the Left rapporteur, Mrs Inger Støjbergs, who put it very clearly from country to country, but Mrs Pernille Bendixen emphasised the same thing, and Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt did it too, and said something that I also think is important and right and that has not really been filled in today's debate, namely that some of the things that legitimise the use of it, if it is not just for or against monitoring, and if we are to use monitoring, is the legal certainty that we are building up around it. Well, is there independent supervision? Sir. Nas Khader was challenged on it. After all, we live in a rule of law, where we then build up structures around these tools that ensure that they are used in a democratic way that ensures that there is insight into how they are used, which ensures that they are not on chance. I think that some of what has been at the heart of the issue today has been: does monitoring provide security at all? And monitoring provides that we recognise it all around, both of the two proposals for adoption today recognise that it is important in a good investigative tool, and if it is and there is the cohesion when monitoring is used to combat crime, then it supports the cohesion of society. That cohesion gives security and therefore freedom. That is, of course, what is central, but it is still the balance that needs to be found. I think that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115723	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115726	We have among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). This is among other things. in view of the fact that there are some decisions on the way to next year. You might think that this is an area where decisions will always be made. So next year there will probably also be some decisions or some cases coming at another time. So can the Minister say something about how many times, as with good reason, can a revision of the logging rules be postponed? Well, it's anniversary no. 10, we have to go up to, or where is the limit, so that we can say that no, we cannot now postpone these rules further, and now we have to live up to what is expressed in practice under the auspices of the European Union, on an equal footing with our neighbouring countries and other EU countries, which can, of course, solve crime with the practice shown in relation to logging?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115826	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115833	Without going too far as to say that I think this is an issue on the verge of this question debate, namely how to ensure the effectiveness of EU law. That is quite right, as the questioner knows very well, that it is, among other things, true. If the Member States fail to comply with the judgments of the European Court of Justice, there may be a risk of having an infringement of the Treaty brought before them, where they can then be judged with the consequences of it, unless they have good reasons to think about it. And in this case, it is the case that the legal situation that the Court of Justice of the European Union has called into question the cases in which the trial is being conducted and where there will be a judgment at a time that will certainly make us more aware of the state of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115923	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115925	If the important decision which is then under way had to fall out so that it largely supports the practice that is already in place, would one think that no, now we must see whether there are any new decisions, or would that be a pretext to say that okay, then perhaps we should correct in relation to the fact that there have now been a few decisions in a row? In other words, will we be prepared to correct and enforce the rules on logging which have so far been expressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115956	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206115958	If the question is whether the Danish Government believes that we should respect EU law, then the Danish Government believes that we must respect EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120008	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120011	Thank you, Minister. I can confirm that this has been an objective, sober and fresh debate. However, I am rather annoyed that some of the rapporteurs have left before we conclude the debate. I would like to ask the Minister if, following this very wide-ranging debate, he intends to invite the rapporteurs to talk about the part of the security package which does not concern monitoring, but where, in order to strike a balance, as the Minister has mentioned several times, we could discuss a security package, part 2, which was about prevention and rehabilitation. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120101	One of the beauty of the security package we are launching is that we have just found the balance completely where it should lie. That is why we are going to present the legislative proposals in this Chamber and seek a majority for them, and I feel that there is a fairly good forecast. I am not sure that the rapporteur's party will be included, but let us see now. After all, the reality of the issue is different: whether we also need to go other ways to combat crime, for example. prevention and rehabilitation, and we certainly do. So, for me, what we are using our legal policy to do is, first and foremost, to achieve the objective of security. And this can be achieved in the tough way of tightening up, sanctions, penalties and so on, but it can indeed be achieved through the soft road, namely rehabilitation and prevention. I think that both tools should be used, because the most important thing is to ensure the safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120200	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120202	Thank you, Minister. I couldn't actually decode whether it was an invitation or not. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for a good debate and call on him to call for negotiations where we can also look at the second part of a security package, namely preventive and re-socialising action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120230	I understand that, sir. Sikandar Siddique could not decode, for I did not answer the question I answered around the question. I think there is a need to look at the question of rehabilitation when we enter into the negotiations that we should otherwise have, including, of course, the way in which criminal justice works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120249	Thank you. Does that mean that sir... Sikandar Siddique wants to come up here and finish, or is it finished? Here you go, and thank you to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120306	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you for a good debate. Video surveillance may have an effect on solving crimes, but we believe 1.5 million cameras are sufficient. We do not believe that we should have further monitoring. We believe that, in order to prevent crime, to prevent crime, we must take action much earlier and much more effectively in relation to prevention and rehabilitation, and that is also what I proposed in my last question to the Minister. And now the alternative will very soon come up with a proposal for a ban on facial recognition technology in public spaces, and there I am sure the debate will continue. Thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120410	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 10 December 2019. And then we're gonna have a little break while we're swapping the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120729	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 10 December 2019. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120750	Thank you. Despite recent initiatives aimed at bullying and a decreasing trend towards bullying, there are still serious and widespread problems of bullying in the country's schools. A new study showed for the 2017-18 school year that barely 20 per cent. of the students from the 4th grade to the 9th grade experienced bullying. That's way too many. 10% of them experienced systematic and continuous bullying. At least it's the documented bullying. One might fear by critically considering the study that the figures could be even higher, but they are high enough in themselves. Unfortunately, the same study also shows that in many cases bullying also has a social side. Almost twice as many of the bully victims come with resourceless backgrounds compared to children exposed to bullying with the most resourceful backgrounds. Bullying also takes place outside the school. For example, one in eight children stops with a leisure activity due to bullying or misfortune. On Monday and Tuesday of this week, the country's newspapers reported two shocking examples of bullying, where the bullies had been taken out of school. In one example from the Dogrup School at Odense, the head of the school had chosen to take the bully victim out of school. In the second example from Copenhagen, the victim's mother said that Utterslev School could not guarantee her son's safety. These are two appalling and unprecedented examples of us totally abandoning the poor victims of bullying as a society. That can't be right. And it can't be right at all that the bully victim is being sent or taken out of school. Bullying has major and serious consequences for both the bully victim and society. That is why we simply have to react, intensify and strengthen our efforts, because it is simply not good enough. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party have taken the initiative for this question debate, as we cannot passively look at the fact that such large proportions of children are miserable due to physical and psychological bullying in schools. That is why, of course, I am very excited to hear now how the Minister will ensure that we tighten up the fight against bullying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206120953	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206121008	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party for having called this important debate that we are having today. I think that this is one of the issues in which everyone actually agrees, understood in that no one stands up and defends bullying as a good thing. This is a very good first step, because we have plenty of debates in the Parliamentary Assembly, of course, where, in its analysis of the problem, we simply disagree. In other words, there is a difference of opinion as to whether there is a problem at all. It has to be said that exactly as far as bullying is concerned, there is broad agreement in the Folketing that there is a problem and that it is also a problem that we have to deal with together. And there is community responsibility in this regard. So far, so good. I would say that, over the decades I have been dealing with school policy, a great deal has happened with regard to the bullying agenda. It began this way in the late 1990s and looked forward to today, and it is a problem that has been taken more and more seriously and where there have also been some tremendous achievements in primary school, for example, that much more emphasis has been placed on parents taking an active part in their children's schooling and getting to know each other and thus contributing to the fact that their children are not bullying each other and are not themselves being bullied. So it can be said that having a look at the fact that tackling bullying is a Community problem, in which both parents and schools play an active role, and in which we in society can also help push those things, has brought us very far if you look at it over the last few decades. In fact, I would say that this is one of the problems that has perhaps been moved most in our understanding of it, including the things we have done about it, during the time I have been in politics. And that's actually really positive. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go. I think we all hear horrible stories about children who have been bullied or who have been bullying other children themselves at school. We hear about how bullying not only affects their school hours, but actually affects them for the rest of their lives. I think most of us know some who have been bullied as children, or that we ourselves have been, or that we ourselves have been involved in bullying, and we also know how present the stories and the feelings that were associated with those stories are still for most of us. I also think that we can remember from our own school hours how one can be afraid to fall outside the community, because that is very much what this is all about. It is, after all, about the dynamics of the community. And it's happening today too, but a lot of social life has changed from the time we went to school, where it was primarily in and around the school and schoolyard... it could be the dressing room for sports or cabal formations when there were recesses or whatever it might be. What is then perhaps the biggest change from then, since the majority of us who are here now were children, is the social media, so that the room in which you can bully is not only in school time; that is all enough, I would say; but it is also outside school time, because social media play a crucial role in the dynamics that exist between children. And when bullying plays out on social media, it can happen all the time. This means that the peace that I think most of us have perceived could have been from the bullying, when you finally landed at your own address, when the school day was over and you had come all the way home, well it is different for the children today, simply because their phone allows others to also penetrate your most private private sphere, and bullying can penetrate all corners of your life. Things can be split quickly and to a huge extent, and it is really much harder for adults to see it, although I actually also found it difficult for the farm guards to see it when I went to school. Or at least it wasn't stopped, you might say. It was happening. I think that, as an adult generation, we must be very clear that the condition that we adults cannot see it to a great extent and that it can take place 24 hours a day is a different condition than when we were children and young people. Plus, there's gonna be more than enough kids to create a perfect life on social media. So, there can come a very big discrepan between the image they show their peers, with which they are also with in the real world, and how they really feel, because they can use the social media as the means of communication that somehow shows the others the picture of their lives. So in this way there are some things about this agenda that are also quite different, you have to say, yes, massively different than when we went to school. It also creates an unhealthy performance pressure on young people. So, in addition to showing an image that is not actually entirely in line with reality, there is also pressure on the others, and that is a pressure that may not have been there to the same extent either, when we were children: a pressure, in terms of what is right to do, the right way to say, the right way to look, all these things, where social media are at least going to be a catalyst for things to get bigger than when we were children. Then how do we fight it? Whether bullying takes place in the schoolyard or in the classroom or in the club, or whether it takes place on the way home from school or on social media, bullying is not in order and bullying has extremely serious consequences for the children. We must fight that, and how do we do so? I believe that one of the first things to recognise with oneself and with one another is that this is precisely why I started by saying how it has gone over a few decades and is a sustained effort that needs to be made and that the adult generations who follow each other and have children who go to kindergarten and primary schools constantly and constantly have to be processed and worked on in order to create the common space that must be around children's children's lives. So it is important that we continue to do so, but it is also important that we understand that these are dynamics that you cannot just change with a snap with your fingers. Nevertheless, we can do a lot, and that is the positive news, because things have actually moved very much. In the past, bullying was seen as a problem that was somehow between one student in the class, that is, the one who was bullying, and then another student in the class, that is, the one who was bullied. If you looked at it most group-orientedly, it was a group of students who were bullies to one student who was bullied. In the old days it was almost consistent that it was the one who was bullied that was taken out of the community. That was almost consistent the way one reacted in the old days, namely that it was said that then we take the bully victim out of the community, and then we leave the others. That is what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is also saying, namely that it is still going on in some places today in some contexts, in other words the way in which it is solved, may be by saying that the victim of the bullying no longer has to be at school. It seems to me that we can discuss whether the schools that have taken the initiative are the ones who are bullying, perhaps not going to school until we have got the community to hang together, have a more reasonable way of going to the macros. I know that it is being discussed very eagerly in schools, whether it is done in one way or another. They do it differently in schools. I am clearly most in favour of going down that road, of course addressing those who are actually doing something wrong. I think that is all reasonable points of view, that is to say, those who have violated normal and proper behavior will feel the consequences of it. I also believe that we need to hold on to discussing with each other what it is quite frankly for an experience you have as a child, if there are some who are malicious to you, and that the consequence is that we isolate the child in question. What the child is then told is: You cannot be part of the community because there are some others that are malicious to you. I do not think this is the most appropriate way to go to the problem, and I am convinced that it does not help to increase the self-esteem of the children and young people we are talking about who are being taken out of the community. One might say that we have moved from seeing it as one bully and one bully victim, or in groups, to seeing it today more generally as something that does not relate to a student, but something that relates to the class as such and to the community as such and therefore also to the culture that is built up. That is why it is also a problem which we must solve jointly and in this Community framework and in which it cannot be isolated to individuals. This perspective forms the basis for the recent efforts that have been made to combat bullying. Before embarking on any concrete initiatives, I would like to begin by responding to the part of the question which refers to the fact that bullying remains a major problem in primary school. We see, overall, that bullying in primary school is a declining problem, and that is, in fact, a positive one. But at the same time it is very serious that there is a stable proportion of students between 5 and 8 per cent, which indicates that they regularly experience bullying. That share has not moved in recent years, and that is worrying. That's a big deal. A lot of people experience this as a condition of going to school. In 2016, the then V government entered into an agreement to set up a national complaint body against bullying, and the parties behind it were the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Conservatives. And then education environmental legislation was amended in 2017, so that today there are a number of requirements for primary education establishments and also upper secondary education. It is actually spectacular that it is so late in coming legislation about this. I mean, we're gonna make it to 2017 before we really get to grips with it. But there was. There are, among other things: a requirement for educational establishments to establish an anti-bullying strategy, including in relation to digital bullying. In addition, in the specific cases of problems surrounding the mental education environment, the management of training places must, within 10 working days, draw up an action plan setting out how to solve the problems. And then it has become an opportunity for pupils and underage pupils' parents to complain about what is called the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, if the place of education does not have an anti-bullying strategy or if there is no or insufficient response to specific cases of problems with the psychological education environment, including bullying. At the same time, the DCUM, which is not so short-lived for the Centre, was given the supervision of whether schools comply with the provisions of the Education Environment Act on bullying in primary and secondary schools. The National Complaints Board against bullying was subject during the legal proceedings to a sunset clause in 2022. What is meant by the sunset clause means that if we do not do any further in the matter by Christiansborg, the review body will in fact end by 2022. And in order to be able to decide what will happen to the appeal body, we simply need to know how it has worked. Of course, the parties to the agreement were, by their very nature, aware of this at the time of the conclusion of the agreement, and it was therefore agreed that within two years of its entry into force the Ministry should carry out a study to assess whether the provisions of the law on anti-bullying, including the national review body, have had the desired effect, so simply did what we wanted it to do. So it is not only the review body that needs to be examined, but all the anti-bullying provisions of the law. This means requirements for anti-bulb strategy, action plan, review body, and DCUM's monitoring of the provisions are examined in relation to whether they have had the intended effect. At the same time, the parties agreed that the result of the study should be received by the Danish Parliament in the 2019-20 Assembly, i.e. the parliamentary assembly we are currently in session. And there it is, by its very nature, sent to the Committee on Children's and Education. The study is under way, which means that the results are expected to be forwarded to the Committee on Children's and Education in this session. I would therefore also like, as a minister in this Assembly, to explain how implementation has progressed and, above all, how it has worked, as the authors of this question also want. So I will not go ahead and conclude in advance what has happened with the effort and whether there is a need for adjustments when there is a thorough work going on. That is not necessarily what I thought the questioners intended, but it was a question of whether we are going there, whether we are going there, in relation to the strategy that was put forward. When we have the final evaluation, the government will, of course, invite the parties to the agreement to a discussion on how to go in and take action against bullying in primary school. These should be the opening remarks on my part. Again, thank you for raising a very important issue in this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122331	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122334	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. Of course, we respect the fact that we have an upcoming evaluation, but at the same time we think that there are some problems that we can deal with and that we can also address. That is why I think we can discuss how we can ensure that something happens in the municipalities that are not necessarily doing well enough now. In this context, I would really like to hear the Minister's comment: could we, when we are sitting with the evaluation and we are looking at the DCUM, agree to say that we need to look at their role in having the opportunity to supervise. We had the debate a week ago in relation to the indoor climate, where we talked about the same thing: can we use DCUM as a tool? So I would really like the Minister to confirm that we can have that discussion on how we use DCUM as a concrete tool in this. Another thing in the same vein is that in the schools we have a concept called student work environment representatives or educational environment representatives, as it is well formally called out there ^ which is not very active very much in many places. Could we agree to make an effort to ensure that there are more of them and that they are trained to perform the role out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122454	Now I have been active in the student movement for incredibly many years, so it makes my heart beat as soon as you talk about getting the students involved in their school and active about the school being properly developed. I'd like to take a look at that. We need to look at concrete models for how we can do this. So you're never gonna make me seriously oppose that. Make some concrete proposals, and then we'll see what we can do about it. In relation to the DCUM, I would say that these are two tools that really lie at each end of the toolbox. When we can get the students and, moreover, teachers and parents to take an active part in it and carry a large part of what is about the educational environment, whether it is indoor climate or the other, I think we are moving very much. In relation to supervision and the DCUM, I would like to make a commitment that we can have a broader discussion both in relation to the part that is about indoor climate, but also in relation to this. I think it is quite obvious that, when we also have an evaluation in which the DCUM is included, we will also have that discussion. And yes, it is true that this is simply the second time in a week's time that we have the discussion on DCUM, and I think we have never had a concrete discussion on their role.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122607	There is only one comment per person. rapporteur. Thank you. The Minister for Children and Education I think... I'm sorry, not that I'm interfering with...). If there's anyone else, you gotta get in there. There is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122622	It is easy to find out when the right timing is; that is how it is like in politics. Thank you for a very fine speech, which I think really had some very nice observations. Just before I came down here, I had a very fine discussion on Radio4 about bullying and bullying in primary school, which among other things. was with panel participant Rasmus Kjeldahl from Children's Terms. He said that he experienced that there had been such a shift over time in how important the Minister of Education really felt this was. So it is really just a completely open question: how important does the Minister think this is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122702	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122703	In fact, I have experienced that in the time I have been in here, and I started with that too. When I started being politically involved in the early mid-1990s, it was not an issue that was particularly high on someone's agenda, and then it has increasingly been something that took on the education ministers, moreover, across the parties who have been sitting, and I would very much like to follow that row in the way that it is an issue that will be more and more central in our way of going about it. I mean, it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's just... it's... it's just... it's just... In addition to putting emotional traces of the rest of life, it also gives a lower foundation, which means that the consequences it has for the individual child both academically and personally and emotionally, are quite great, and I simply do not think one had a look for that in the past. Thankfully, we've got that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122752	Thank you. I would just like to say that in this instance there is only one comment to the rapporteurs, and when it is over and the minister is finished, we go ahead with the rapporteur's speeches and the general conditions apply with two comments per year. rapporteur. It's now, sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122810	Thank you. And thank you for a really, really fine speech, which certainly impressed me several times. One of the things that really impressed you is that if you get bullied at school, you can no longer just go home without being bullied. Well, we could, mostly at least we could come home and have peace and maybe be with some friends who didn't bully you. Here it can continue on Facebook and other social media. I have looked at the legislation that exists, and I have also looked at the rate-pool initiatives that we are also involved in in the alternative, and where we also support trying to ensure that fewer pupils are bullied. But I have not really been able to find any strategy in relation to social media. Do we not have any strategies, or have we not been clear about it, or have I not researched properly? What are the Minister's thoughts about stopping that from being able to continue 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206122904	Well, now I wish I could just say that they should put away the phones. It's something you hear yourself repeat incredibly many times when you are the parent of children at that age. No, of course I do not think so, but the schools have a duty to draw up an anti-bullying strategy which also concerns social media. And that means that schools have a duty to do this. I just don't think we should be wrong about how hard it is to deal with it. Just as it is really difficult for us as parents to deal with the fact that the next generation has a different way of being social with each other, the same applies to schools. But the schools have a duty to do so. I have not yet heard of a school where this is not one of the topics on which relatively much effort is also being spent, both in relation to children, but also in relation to young people. Whether we have made it far enough, we need to look at an evaluation. And this is one of the areas in which I think we should insist a little that when there are 5-8 per cent who are constantly experiencing bullying, one might well say without an evaluation: No, we are not actually in the finish line yet. And we are not at all when we know that it can even come fully home in the bedroom of the individual and that you can never be alone because of your phone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206123007	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we shall now proceed to the debate and the general rules for short remarks. It is now the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206123022	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was good to hear that there is at least an awareness of this problem, which is very, very wide indeed. What we from the Danish People's Party are gathering it a little about today is what is happening at school and the bullying there, but there is no doubt that it is unfortunately boundless. It's around the clock, it's on digital media, and it's in a lot of ways. There are basically far too many children in Denmark who suffer from the yoke of bullying. It has major human, social, psychological and economic consequences for our societies, and it is both in the short term and in the longer term. In view of these circumstances, it is necessary to sharpen the course towards bullying. The whole effort is going too slow. There is a huge loss of society that we, as adults, are responsible for dealing with. Our children must have a safe upbringing so that learning and professionalism can thrive and sprudle with their children. We all have an interest and a social commitment across the party to ensure good and safe and bully-free schooling for our children. It is our very clear view in the Danish People's Party that the fight against bullying must be strengthened and intensified. We simply cannot have a society in which a large part of our children are subjected to bullying, a society which must provide our children with the best conditions for a good life. Folkeskole is one of society's most important institutions. The years at school are the most crucial and formative for our children. The rest of their lives they will benefit from the knowledge and skills they have learned in primary school. That is why it is important that we, as a society, give high priority to primary school. The Danish People's Party wants a primary school with a secure, firm and professional framework; a primary school where the students meet well prepared for the teaching, show mutual respect to each other and to the teachers and calm in the classroom; a primary school where bullying in all shades is a completely unacceptable behavior that has to be fought down and beaten down. But fortunately, as has also been mentioned, since the 1990s, the bullying has been retreating. This is a positive development. Teachers and educators have made great efforts to bring down the volume of bullying. Denmark is the country in Europe that has the third least bullying. Of course, we should be happy about that. In 2017, all primary and secondary educations were required to draw up a strategy against bullying, and in the autumn of 2018 the figures showed that almost 96 per cent. of the primary schools had formulated a strategy. However, despite this development, there are unfortunately many Danish school students who experience bullying and displeasure at school. As mentioned earlier, barely 20% of people experienced it. of the school students from the 4th-9th grade bullying in some degree during the school year 2017-18, and just under 10%. of the pupils at the classes in question experienced repeated bullying. So even if it goes the right way, and even though the schools have drawn up strategies against bullying, it is important for the Danish People's Party that we as a society focus on it, that we keep our attention on it and set further initiatives in motion. The well-being of students is crucial and provides an important basis for learning, for students experience dissatisfaction, including bullying, thwarted and counteracted the professional benefits of the bully victim. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that Danish children and young people thrive in the education system and are not subjected to bullying. That is why we call on the Minister to step up his efforts and carry out a rapid follow-up on the areas of action that have already been set up. The review body against bullying, which is currently under evaluation, should, of course, be made permanent, but with the adjustments that an evaluation may point to. However, we need a review body in addition to the local municipality. We must ensure that all municipalities actually have an anti-bullying strategy, that pupils' environmental education representatives are trained and that there is a local effort, a preventive effort, because that is what happens, that is where it is, and that is what is super important. And if we can prevent bullying from happening at all, that is of course the main thing. After all, this is not about complaints and everything else. It's really about how we can create something in the culture out there. But it is also important to say that it never happens, unfortunately, often that it may end with the bullies changing school. Bullying is very much about culture. It is rarely the individual who is a bully. That is why it is absolutely crucial that culture should be worked out in schools. Therefore, anti-bulb strategies, student education environment representatives and an active teacher and educator group are crucial. There must always be action against bullying. If you grab the first signs and talk about it in class, bullying can be avoided. That is why we have the debate today. It has to come out in the light. We need to talk about this. And we must all act where we can and with what we can. From in here, we need to secure the framework. We must demand that it be followed up in schools all over the country. Stop bullying now. We owe this to our children, regardless of their ethnic, social, cultural and economic background. On behalf of all the parties of the Folketing, I have a proposal for adoption, and it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the volume of bullying has been decreasing since the 1990s, but there are still major challenges. A large proportion of the country's schoolchildren are still experiencing bully-related problems. During the 2017-18 school year, every fifth school child in the 4th to 9th grade has experienced bullying. It is far too many children and it has major human, social and psychological consequences for the individual and economic consequences for our society both in the short and long term. There also has to be a focus on the fact that the answer to bullying is not just that the child exposed to bullying is forced to change school. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government has initiated the agreed study on the impact of the anti-bulb regulations in order to be able to explain this to the Danish Parliament. The Government will therefore, in the present session, meet the proposers' proposals for an explanation of how the work has progressed and the extent of the impact of the effort and discuss with the parties of the Folketing how to improve action against bullying. • V 26).
ParlaMint-DK_20191206123633	Thank you for that and, of course, the proposal is part of the further negotiations. There are no comments, so we move on to Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206123651	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you to the DF for raising this debate, which we fortunately agree to keep on the agenda and take into account the seriousness that it requires in the Folketing. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the question. I myself am one of those who was actually lucky and rarely experienced being bullied at school. But I must also say that when I think back to the times when it happened, it still sits away in the body, and then you can think of some of those who are exposed to it really continuously • how devastating it is. Now I have become a father myself, and I think I would have been bullied every day during the 10 years of my school hours, if I could then avoid my children being bullied, because it is almost even worse to imagine. And that's why this is a discussion that both the children and the parents out there have extremely strong concerns about life, because it really, really is devastating for the individual, and you can hardly imagine anything worse than if it affects someone you love, your children. And that is why it is, of course, a task that we need to talk about with great earnestness. I also think it is important, as the Minister said, and as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur and the Alternative's rapporteur also mentioned, that it has become a new dimension because it is never taken off; because it is also taken on to the social media. And one can say that we have also experienced some rather unfortunate stories about how some have almost coordinated how to deal with individual students in the class; what to do to push them out of the community. And that is why it can be said that it simply emphasises that the possibility of hurting others has become much greater and that the community that must ensure against hurting others has to be even stronger. There we are also at the last point, which is very important and it is a recognition that we have come to a broad conclusion, namely that it cannot be isolated to individuals. Because there's gonna be a new bully if the culture is for it. It is the community around what is not enough. And I think that the most important players in this, of course, are those around the children at school, it is the teachers and educators at the school, and it is the parents in the parent group who have to say collectively against it. We have done something and, most recently, with that agreement in 2016, good initiatives have actually been moved. The Minister has explained what has happened, and indeed the fact that an evaluation is now being made of what is going to happen. So it would be foolish to conclude at this stage how we make the fight against bullying better. But when there are still problems, it would also be quite arrogant to say: we do not expect anything to be done. Because, of course, we must expect that we can do something to support it better. What I want to warn you about is, of course, that we are adopting a lot of things that look like we are extremely capable of action, but which may not have any effect out there, but that we are frankly discussing with each other how we can do something that actually strengthens the communities and the teachers and leaders' responsibility to act on it in the municipalities. Without it becoming a process paper tiger, where the most important thing is to check whether you made x, y and z, but that you actually act on it when the problems arise. So I am pleased with the broad agreement we have had so far on this. I welcome the statements that have been made, and I am pleased that the Danish People's Party is raising the question. Against this background, I am also pleased that we have drawn up a joint draft for adoption so that we can agree to set a clear framework and put this even better into practice because no, we are not in the end at all. And, strictly speaking, we are not until there are no children who experience bullying, either in school or on social media.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124052	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124056	Thank you. And thank you for agreeing to accept the challenge. But when the rapporteur also says that something needs to be done, I think that without prejudging all sorts of things, where we are talking about something is going to happen, it is in the municipalities. And it is very different today how it is handled out there and how seriously you take it. We have a DCUM, and we're evaluating whether it's gonna be okay. So what I really want to ask the rapporteur is this: when we are going to have to make some moves, is it prepared to say that we have to find a tool that will enable us to ensure that something happens at each school, that you have your anti-bullying strategy, that is to say that you take it seriously? And that we cannot simply go under the radar, if I may say so, and wait for some major problems to arise, but that we are actually getting this cultural work going, and that we are getting pressure on from here so that this happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124151	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124152	I think the rapporteur says something central when the rapporteur says 'cultural work', because we can decide that there must be a strategy. We can also agree that it should be taken out of the drawer every week. We can also agree that all teachers should check that they have read it once a week. Well, we can do a lot of procedural things. But what is important, of course, is that there is a severity about this in all the schools, so that when teachers experience the bullying in the children's group, they take it seriously. And if the teacher does not respond to it, the management of the school must respond to the fact that it is not taken seriously. That is why we need to discuss how we find the best balance between ensuring that everyone, if you say so, meets minimum requirements or that everyone is confronted with having to do something about this without thinking that we can solve it by managing it in a certain way. Because it is very much about culture and the fact that you do not want to accept it and that you actually write it in and go the extra mile and take care of the problem, right? So it is an extremely complex task to solve, and there is no substitute for good management, there is no substitute for skilled teachers in the situation, there is no substitute for a parent group that actually takes it seriously. So we have to somehow make sure from in here that this is done as best we can and as securely as possible. But we cannot take the task away from them, because we cannot solve it centrally. I mean, it has to be taken seriously in that respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124317	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124318	No, we can't take away the assignment. But how do we put pressure on it? It can be said that if you take the occupational health and safety field generally in the companies, the Factory Inspectorate has the opportunity to go out and say: "You must." DCUM does not have the same resources and opportunities to get around and control as the Factory Inspectorate has. So you could imagine having some kind of body that could go out where it doesn't work and say you have to do something about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124349	We actually found that we wanted anti-bullying strategies, but we saw that there were schools that didn't make them. Then we actually did it legally that everyone should have it so that you couldn't just say that it didn't seem relevant. No, the schools must all deal with it, even if you think that things are going well on the surface. This is an example of how you can tighten up a requirement for people to do so. And we have also introduced a right of appeal to the DCUM, so that if you either as a student or as parents of underage pupils experience that there is no action on it, you can complain about it. And that is what we need to evaluate now, whether actually works. My impression is that this has not led to extremely many complaints just for the sake of the complainants, but it is also not that no one has used this tool. That is why we need to take a proper and serious look at where the holes are in the cheese and what is not good enough. And then I'd like to discuss what kind of demands you can make that make less bullying and make sense out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124451	Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124453	I believe that there is a broad recognition that it is not just happening exactly during school hours, but that it is also happening on social media. A number of initiatives have, of course, been taken in this regard, including: what is called "Delete" it where you can get help and guidance to get it deleted and notified if you have been digitally violated. While you have seen bullying in primary school going down, the other has just gone up, and I do not think we have seen the volume reaching its highest level yet. So in reality, I just want to ask whether you will also try to coordinate across the board so that you can coordinate the efforts that are being made in the social field around SoMe and Netbulbing, if you call it that, among other things. with Save the Children's •DeleteIt• combined with the effort made in the primary school area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124548	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124549	I think that's obvious. Now the question today is about bullying in primary school, but we know that it is often among the same people that the bullying continues on social media. The children who are at risk in the children's group are also out of school, and it would be strange not to think it together. And I agree that there are many good initiatives, including private ones, within the framework of civil society. But it is clear that we must constantly discuss what we can do to politically support it. And I really think that the most frightening thing is that we ourselves are not very good at the traffic rules on the Internet either, and it has to be said that technology, and indeed the young people too, are many steps ahead. That is why there is exactly the same thing here in relation to bullying as there is in relation to SoMe, namely that you have to talk to your children about their lives on social media. Otherwise, they don't come looking for help and support the day the cup floats over and it goes wrong if it's because of. a violation or a bullying on social media. Because you have to ~ if you can say so ~ to participate in that life and to have to get in on it. And that is why we must think together politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124659	Thank you. There are no more comments, and then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206124717	Thank you for that, President, thank you to the Minister for the good speech, and thank you very much to the Danish People's Party, because with this question you are helping to focus on bullying, which is an extremely important issue. We in the Left believe that all children and young people have the right to a good start in life. That is why, as several have mentioned earlier, we were also behind the national action plan against bullying from 2016. The action plan was prepared in close cooperation with organisations such as the Children's Council, Children's Conditions, Save the Children and Mary Foundation and fortunately gained broad support also here in the Danish Parliament. That is why I have a small appeal that perhaps it was also some organisations that we could draw into the future work on how to move forward with this area. The action plan contained a wide range of concrete and targeted measures to combat bullying. Many have mentioned the review body, as if nothing else has made a great impression in terms of signals in the municipalities. I myself was Vice-President of the Committee on Children's and Family Affairs in Vejle Municipality when this bill came through, and it has made a great impression and has led to a great deal of focus on it. So I am really glad that we are starting to talk about it again from in here too. Several have also mentioned this research, which shows that bullying among schoolchildren has fallen in recent years and that Danish children are now among those in Europe who most rarely experience bullying. It also shows that it matters that you focus on the subject. But the fact that the general bullying among children and young people has fallen does not help the child or young person who is being bullied to this day. Too many kids are still being bullied. We know, as several others have also said, that bullying has major human and psychological consequences for the victims, and that affects them for the rest of their lives. We cannot therefore be familiar with abandoning these children and young people, and the bullying victim and family must never be left alone with the responsibility for solving the problem. That is why we must take the challenge of bullying very seriously. We therefore also believe on the Left that there is a need for further strengthening and intensifying the fight against bullying. We also believe that it is necessary to carry out continuous evaluations of school anti-bulb strategies so that they are adjusted if they do not work as intended and that they are also constantly adapted to the developments that are taking place in the everyday lives of young people, among other things. in relation to social media. It also fits very well with the expert hearing we had yesterday that we are also starting to focus more on how social media affect young people's lives. As I started by saying, it is therefore very good that we from the Danish Parliament are also sending out a signal that we are taking bullying seriously, that the focus on bullying has come to stay and that we are ready to strengthen the efforts further, because that is what it takes to extend, for example. in the municipalities will focus on this everywhere. And as a follow-up to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's comment earlier, I would like to say that we must of course also follow up on the fact that the legislation that is being adopted is being followed out in the municipalities. After all, there is a reason why we have adopted this legislation: it is because we think it is important. Then I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment that we will continue to talk about this in a broad circle so that we can do something that is widely anchored and will work out in reality. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125032	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125035	I have just one question for the rapporteur, because it is now being said that the rapporteur has previously been chairman of a committee in a municipality. When we talk about this, it's really a lot about how we ensure that pressure is put on. I also heard that the appeal body had had an effect out there. So can the rapporteur just say a few words about how we should do it if we are to ensure that this is actually also a reality in the individual municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125102	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125103	As a starting point, I think we need to have some knowledge of how things are going in the different municipalities, what the situation is, how many children are being bullied. We have among other things. a tool such as the quality report, where we help from in here to send out some signals about what we think is important should be included in such a quality report. This could be a way to force the various municipal authorities to relate to how things are going in their municipality in relation to this particular area. There is already a focus on it, in terms of looking at well-being and things like that, but you might get even more specific. Then I actually think the idea that you had some expert knowledge in here that you could draw on as a municipality, if you don't do well enough, is reasonable. We ourselves have experienced it in the social field with a task force that has been able to help us to improve in the municipality of Vejle to tackle some of the problems that can be difficult and that are quite complex sometimes. So it could be a bid. But first of all, I think that the fact that we are interested in it and that we have some expectations about how the municipalities do these things works.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125203	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125222	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question, which will indeed be a warning of the statement that the Minister will make later in this session. I want to start with a little story from real life. In the mid-1990s we had war in the former Yugoslavia and we had Danish soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I was Minister for Economic Affairs and regularly visited Brussels. And at a meeting there my French colleague came to me and said he wanted to tell me that in France they had agreed that the Danish soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina were the best soldiers at all. And then I thought, "Hey, what's wrong here, 'cause it's the foreign legion's advocate who says that the Danish soldiers are the best?" So I asked, what do you mean? And then he said: Well, they're great at preventing conflicts in the community; they're good at getting citizens to help repair the generator and the waterworks, and what's wrong; so it's actually nice to be where the Danish soldiers are. I was actually quite happy to hear that, because it is the story of the Danish primary school. Then he asked me, Where did they learn that? And there I had to answer, in school. And at school we actually have the tradition of building on communities and creating communities if they are not there. That is why we work at school very much with relationships between children and relationships between adults and children etc. Bullying is one of the most disgusting phenomena that can happen in a community where you should be safe and comfortable. And it's bad when every child in the 4th-9th grade in 2017-2018 has experienced bullying. It is clear that we cannot just sit and pull on the shoulders of it. That problem needs to be resolved. And this is not just done by removing the child who is being bullied or the one who is bullying; it is the whole culture of school, that is to say, there must be a better culture. Children are very vulnerable, and therefore there is much research going on about how children feel together and at school, for example. I have a quote from a researcher who I myself think is very significant for how vulnerable children actually are. It's a little complicated, so I say it slowly: Your identity is created by your interpretation of the other's interpretation of you. Quote out. How do I work on the others? You could say that, too. And that is what the cross of vulnerable children is to bear if they do not have the support to get the others to recognise them as equal people in the community at school. A great deal of research has been undertaken into the impact of the so-called anti-bullying provisions which the Government will have to explain here in the Folketing at a later date in this session. So I also see this question as a warning of what has been adopted and must take place soon or in a short space of time. And it's a force for the case... it's really a very strong force for the case... that the Folketing is as united as we are all the parties between, about this type of problem. This is also the way we get through with our messages around the municipalities. And I agree with what has already been debated here from the platform on this issue, namely how important it is that we have good cooperation with the municipalities. That is why I think we should try to put it on the agenda. At least some of us are members of the public school contract circle who regularly meet with the board of directors of KL's Children's and Education Committees. It may well be that we should expand it and include those who are not in the circle of primary school conciliation parties on this point, because it is so wide. It is just a proposal, because it is important that we have the dialogue with those who are responsible for municipal everyday life and for the way in which these problems are dealt with. In this case KL and the committee in question, I mentioned trying to gather experience from various municipalities and ask what they are actually doing and how it works, so that we also get a progress report on such an occasion. In those words, I would like to wish all of us, I would have liked to say, good luck with the task that we have undertaken here in the Folketing in public, and that, of course, obliges us all. I'm glad we're pulling a joint load.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125706	Thank you. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, has some comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125709	Thank you very much for your speech and your agreement all around, you might say, it's really nice to hear. Thank you, too, for the proposals on how we can address the challenge in the municipalities, because that is also the case. I would just like to ask about the position of the Radicals on the possible role of DCUM and DCUM in this. After all, we need the evaluation and we need to see it, but in the future there are some possibilities for using it and designing it, so it will do some of what we want to do. So could the Radicals also be prepared to say: well, we must strengthen that role and we must ensure that someone can come out and see where the problems are and of course also accept reviews, but to such an extent come out actively?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125800	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125802	After all, we had a question debate here in Tinget a week ago about the indoor climate, where we also talked about the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, and where I myself suggested that they should be strengthened. Now I'm such an economist in the back of my head, so every time I say that kind of thing, I also have to think about it costing some money. So we have to agree on how to finance it and we have to agree on how to strengthen it. Is it necessary to strengthen them, or should we put their labour priorities in a different way? I simply do not know enough about that. I think, however, that the Minister can be asked to include this aspect in the statement which has been announced as to how the work is working. It may well be that there was a bid, including from the centre that the Minister could take with him. Otherwise, we can try to show up with them ourselves and have a dialogue with them about: how do they actually work on these issues?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125853	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125854	I think that would also be a very good idea, and as Mrs Marianne Jelved says, we had the debate just last week in relation to the indoor climate, where one of the proposals was about strengthening the Danish Centre for the Education Environment. We can then say that if we strengthen them in both one and the other, it could be that there was also an economic rationale, so that it could actually be positive for the former Minister of Economic Affairs that we hit more flies with a spanking and actually got a lot of effort out of not so much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125924	I will certainly not deny that. I'm open to it. I just have the habit of remembering that sometimes it also costs some money, and then we have to be prepared to get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125934	Thank you. No one else has any comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Carøe, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206125946	Thank you. Communities are important, and they are important wherever we are in society. Everyone needs to be part of a community. Particularly important are the communities at school. Good classmates are crucial to whether children are happy to go to school, just as a good class community is the foundation for a good educational environment. The Communities at school are also the key to understanding bullying. What often causes bullying is what the students make communities about. We haven't always seen bullying like that in school. In the past, we had a greater focus on the student who was bullied and the student or students who were bullying, i.e. a more individual-oriented look at bullying. According to researchers, it is precisely this change in the approach to bullying, which is part of the explanation why we can see today that there is less bullying in our primary schools than there has been in the past. Here, of course, we must not forget to mention the great work done by teachers and pupils and educators, the school leaders and the many organisations to put an end to the bullying. In 1998, one in three 11-year-olds and one in five 15-year-olds experienced continuous bullying. Today, about every 20 students experience continuous bullying. In fact, Denmark has gone from being the country in Scandinavia, where most students were bullied in the late 1990s, to having a place at the top among European countries where fewer pupils are bullied. This is a development that we in the SF are incredibly happy about. But we are not in the end, and we are therefore pleased that the DF has tabled this question today. But we're not in target when there's still 5-8 per cent. of the students, who answer in well-being surveys that they are being bullied regularly, and there are about 15% who have experienced bullying during a school year, however, more rarely. That's why we think it's good to focus on bullying at school. And we would very much like to join the conciliation circle in looking at how we can do more to strengthen the fight against bullying. One example is the National Appeals Board against Bullying, which we believe should continue. The Board of Appeal does not in itself ensure that there is less bullying in schools, but it gives students better legal certainty and at the same time encourages schools to have a greater focus on precisely strengthening the communities among the students and through the work on action plans to get rid of the bullying. However, we would also like to help to see whether there is a need to make some adjustments. For example: I know that the DCUM is experiencing that they could more support the school's efforts to prevent, both that the bullying occurs and that, if it were to happen, it is handled if they were to be involved earlier in the processes. This is an example of something we could discuss in the conciliation circle. As the Minister also mentioned in his speech, an evaluation of the anti-bullying provisions is under way, and in the SF we look forward to the Minister's statement and to the further discussion on how we can continue to strengthen efforts to combat bullying in primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130251	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130258	Thank you. And thank you for a good speech. What I would like to ask the rapporteur was also a little bit about what is the Danish Centre for the Education Environment and their role. Because I can easily see a perspective in that they also have a more preventive role and actually gain more muscles, but I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of whether they should also be used more controllably, so that, in addition to being a review body, which I hear we agree they should continue with, they should also have the strength to come out and be more open-minded and controlling.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130342	I think it is important that we take these considerations into account when the evaluation comes and when we discuss it with the Minister. But I do not want to pre-empt whether this is the solution or whether there are other things that could be the solution. And I also agree with the Radical Left that things cost money and that we must be sure that the things we spend the money on make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130410	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question. We agree that it would be a good idea soon to have a thorough debate on the impact of the anti-bullying efforts we have launched. When the schools opened this summer, it was 2 years since the legislation came into force, when we first established that the municipalities were obliged to create anti-bullying strategies and to draw up action plans, but where we also started the work where DCUM was also given the task of running a national review body. After we adopted the legislation, we can see that the figures are moving in the right direction. It is not necessarily a result of our promise, but we can see among other things. of the great survey that came from the State Institute for Public Health with these figures, which several have referred to, that we have the lowest level of bullying among the 11-15-year-olds ever • at least in the last 20 years. But that does not change the fact that there is a place between every 20 and every 12 pupils who are still subjected to bullying, as several rapporteurs have said, and that is extremely serious, both in the situation, but also as something that can influence a person throughout a lifetime. I have been looking at the National Complaints Board's annual report, which was prepared for 2018 and there are no final figures for 2019 and you can say that the extent of complaints that have been made is not disturbing either. There are half a hundred complaints in the primary school area, and of them there are exactly 40 in the primary school area and a dozen in the open school area. This is, of course, positive in itself, but when you read the report, you can also see in the comments that behind those figures there may be a much greater level of bullying which does not appear and which is not brought out of the review body, either because pupils and their parents are not aware of it, but it may also be due to the way in which it is handled in schools. I myself have stumbled by the fact that in the perspective of the annual report, it is said that, unfortunately, it is not uncommon for schools to actually recommend the pupils/parents to change schools rather than complain, since a complaint in itself would damage the spirit of cooperation. That's right. I do not want to say that this may be a wrong recommendation; it must be assessed in the situation, but I do think it is really important that when we have created the review body, it must also be the case that it is at least becoming obvious to parents who experience their child being subjected to bullying, to consider, if they cannot resolve the problem in cooperation with the school, that they will then actually submit their complaint. So the figures on the number of complaints are not disturbing, but there may be figures behind it which may be more disturbing. I think it is very important that we have a thorough debate when we get the Minister's statement. I think it is important, even if I mention the review body, that we do not necessarily make it the focal point of our efforts, because I believe that we must pay close attention to what is also happening in all modern bullying, that it is precisely not about the individual and the individual handling when we have to solve the problems of bullying, but that it is very much about group efforts, and this is about creating strong, secure communities at school. So I look forward to having this debate on the basis of the Minister's statement, and I think that we should drill into how the review body has functioned, how the DCUM has handled this task, but, as I said, it is also very important that we make it wider and that the whole aspect of creating an inclusive school, where every child can be safe and well in everyday life, is really important to get along with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130851	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206130856	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. When the rapporteur says that it is not the complaints that we should focus most on, I understand that what is absolutely crucial is that we can prevent them. The Board of Appeal has, from its creation, been called upon as the emergency solution that had to be there if one could not pull oneself together out there and do what one should do. But what I hope we can get into the discussion is how we can use the experience that exists and possibly use DCUM, which has a lot of knowledge in this area, more preventive, more proactive, more guidance in relation to the municipalities, because it is really sad if you are advised not to complain and recommend moving in a municipality. After all, we should not have those who have been bullied to move from one school to another, because that is absolutely the worst solution. So if we could come up with a situation where we could get some advice and guidance and get help working with the culture out there and maybe just a push on the stomach until it gets done, wasn't that something we could work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131010	I think it is a very good idea to strengthen the role of the DCUM and not necessarily to tighten up the handling of complaints, but to a very large extent in relation to the advisory and advisory work, and I think it is really important that we have the whole question of how we handle the whole inclusion task at school not because it is the only issue in connection with bullying. We would very much like to see a strengthening of the DCUM, so that DCUM can both have a stronger supervisory role, but can also have a stronger outreach role in relation to counselling and counselling.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131102	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this very relevant debate, where we can see that there has been a change since the 1990s, but I think everyone here agrees that there is still a challenge with bullying today. Although it is gratifying that bullying at school has fallen, I am also quite sure that we can do more and constantly argue that bullying should not take place, and I think that the mere fact that we have the debate like Parliament shows that we are taking this issue seriously, and I think that is a good signal to send out. There is no doubt that when we talk about bullying, it has some very, very high costs for the people it is going to suffer, that is, violent human costs and violent psychological costs, and I actually think that I have also seen studies even though I do not remember exactly what they are called 'where it appears that you have been subjected to really gross bullying, you simply have some poorer cards on hand since then. Generally, other risk factors may be a negative social legacy, and it can also be a really hard divorce between parents. Imagine having been subjected to very hard schooling, and that is what makes it simply that you have some poorer cards on hand in relation to your future development. Then I noticed some of what the Minister said, which I thought was very important and which I thought was very right, namely that we used to have such a view that we had a bully and then we had a bully victim. There I think that with the development of things and the way bullying is going on today, one must look a little more into those communities, because bullying can also be completely ignored on social media. Thus, bullying is no longer necessarily defined as a deliberate act against another person, but may also be the absence of an act, and it can make one just as sad and just as concerned as if it is the direct bullying that is taking place. So thank you for addressing it. I would also like to say that I believe that some things have happened. In addition to the fact that bullying is going on wider today than it was when we were children, because the social media have arrived, I think that, on a long stretch, we also prevent more than when we were children. This is, of course, very positive, and in reality I would just like to acknowledge the teachers for the work they are doing. I also think that they should be recognised. My own son has just started in 0th grade, and already here there are voluntary play groups established voluntarily; not something you're forced into; if you don't want to, you can stop being there to get students to play with them, which they don't necessarily talk to the most in class, both boys and girls. It just means that you get closer to each other and that when you see each other at home, you may also get an understanding you wouldn't otherwise have. There are also many social arrangements being made for parents • some love it, some love it not so much • but it is all the same easier the day you face a problem, and you know that you have to take the difficult call and call someone else from the class parent, if it is a parent you know, because you have been to a sea of good common events. I think that call just has to get easier intuitively. At my son's school they also have something called companion friends, where they are connected to a 5th grade and during the first few months of 0th grade they get such a companion. • Rasmus is my son's companion friend, and that means that you already get a little insight into the a little older classes, and if you experience something out there in the schoolyard, you certainly have someone you know, and I think that also has a meaning. So without knowing it, I have at least the impression that more is being prevented than has been done in the past. At any rate, I can just say that from my own schooling I don't remember anything about followers, play groups or these parent associations in the same way as today. You are still away with that task when the bullying happens, because it does, and it does on many different stretches, that you have to put in, and I think it might be very good to clarify exactly why there are so few complaints when we can see that it is 5-8 per cent that regularly feel bullied and that those numbers have not actually moved. So there's definitely something to dive into when we get that evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131605	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131619	Thank you, President. Today you go up to the platform with a little pride, but also with a little shame. Well, I am proud that, in relation to bullying, we are as well in relation to other countries in Europe as the DF's rapporteur says we are doing, but I am a little ashamed to be a politician in a country where 5 to 8 per cent of the population live. of the students experience massive bullying. It is clear that any parent who has experienced his child being bullied may still remember a feeling of being very unhappy and having a stomach ache, which continues for a long time. And it is clear that many of the bullies are marked for life. And here I think bullying is one of the scary faces of you, you might say, almost epidemic things that plague young people in primary school today, namely a lack of self-esteem. So I'm glad that we're finally starting to start this legislation, that it started in 2016, and that in 2017 we have also supported initiatives against bullying through the stake pool. But we have gone late on a big problem and there is no laurels to rest on, so it is only about getting forward here. And now, of course, we must wait for the results of the ongoing efforts of the National Review Body and the anti-bullying strategy at all. But there are at least two things that have impressed me among the good things that have been going on, about what you might be able to do in the future. One is about social media, and now it is not to derail the question debate, because I know this is about primary school, and of course it closes at some point in the day, but the school yard never closes anymore. So, the electronic schoolyard is open 24 hours a day, and there I think it is interesting and I am also glad that the minister says that there is work to be done on whether bullying, created within the framework of primary school, in the everyday life of primary school, in primary school classes, and ensuring that the primary school also helps to stop bullying, does not continue in the electronic schoolyard, as the social media are today. So we would very much like to take a look at that. The second point is that, and this is also something that the DF's rapporteur said sometimes about the bullying victim's butt, if I may put it that way, may also be at stake. I myself have made an effort years ago in relation to a child who was bullied, and it is clear that you go through a long process of talking to teachers who talk to pupils, you talk to parents and so on. etc. I missed it a little, that it was very clear that it was also the bully's place at the school that was at stake. And if it had been clear throughout that process, I really do not think anyone had left school, but that everyone had gone to it in an even more serious way, and then I actually think that all the children had stayed at school. So I think it is incredibly important that it is not in the cards that if you do not like the smell in the store, you should just disappear, but that it is actually the one that bullies others, who are also very much at stake. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206131952	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments on the rapporteur's speech. The next rapporteur in the series of rapporteurs is from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl, as I can see that New Citizens are not present in the Chamber. So, it's Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206132012	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good debate on a very exciting subject. The wood of knowledge by Nils Malmros is a major work in Danish film, and if you've seen the film once, I don't think you'll forget it. What the knowledge's tree is is that it's a movie about bullying, where you clinically see the being on this phenomenon that bullying is. It's evil, it's cold, it's cynical and it's calculated collective evil against typical one person. Bullying is not something you do in white-hot rage. Of course, it does not apologize for going into white-hot rage, but that makes it easier to understand. But things you do with cold cynical intent are very hard to accept. It is therefore good that much more attention has been paid to this in recent years. I think that all of us, as politicians in this field, can be pleased with that. Attention to bullying is, after all, part of a trend which I think is very positive, namely that there are some things that have been taboos in the school world that have gradually emerged. In addition to bullying, in recent years we have also begun to talk about violence against teachers. It has also been very taboo. We are beginning to do something about that too. So it is really good that both are now coming to light. A great many good things have been said about bullying, with which I agree. That is why I think I will use my speaking time to say something that, as far as I have just noted, has not been said before. When a united Parliament does something to prevent bullying, we are actually doing something for discipline in schools, and discipline has a really bad reputation. It is because of another work of art which I would also like to mention, namely the neglected spring by Hans Scherfig. This is the negative cadaver discipline that many people remember from there. But there is also a positive and constructive discipline in schools which is necessary, which creates a tense awareness of what is the school's real and essential purpose and which creates a learning environment, one would say today, but which thus also helps to create a spirit and a tone at a school. That is why I think it is a good thing that, without saying the word 'discipline', which is a very controversial word, we are still discussing discipline. Maybe that's the next thing this circle of responsible parties could do. Indeed, I agree with what Mrs Marianne Jelved says about the fact that it is a strong signal to send, for example. the municipalities and the school world, that the Folketing is so united in this. However, it might well be that the constructive and necessary discipline is also something that we should be interested in and talk about, as we say here in Parliament, that is, the discipline necessary to create a good school environment, and which is also very closely connected with self-discipline, which is certainly a good thing, although I think it is quite difficult to make legislation on this kind of thing. However, I would like to thank you for a good debate and, of course, I am also very pleased that there is a great deal of agreement here about a proposal for adoption, which we also very much welcome. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206132429	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. The parties have thus put on all the rapporteurs, and this is the time for the Minister of Children and Education to come to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206132445	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. I believe, as several of the rapporteurs have said in this debate, that it is absolutely invaluable that we stand together on this problem, precisely because these are things that do not work in a community when it is the case that you have bullying. I would say that there has also been another time when I felt it was necessary separately that the whole parliament was behind something we did, and that was when we made the major divorce reform, and that is because it deals very much with something of the same thing, namely conflicts. Now it is conflicts that have extremely serious consequences for children. Being able to agree across the differences that exist among the parties of the Folketing simply has an independent value, and being able to see oneself across the differences and being able to make things work in the community and the diversity that is in that community has a significant meaning for the rest of society, precisely when we deal with conflicts, or when we deal with other communities that have failed to function. That is exactly what the problem is when we talk about bullying: a community that is dysfunctional and that must therefore be corrected. I therefore agree with the comments made by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that this is collective evil, and that is also why we see it so strongly among children and young people, because when we get older we get more sophisticated and then it flies more under the radar when that type of evil shows its ugly face. And among the children is one of the most important things they can learn at all, in my opinion, to curb the ugly feelings and sides that humanity once has in a community so that everyone can be there. So perhaps it is also one of the most important things one can take with oneself from childhood, namely to have learned to become part of a community in which the type of tendencies gets bridled in the collective space so that we can be decent to each other. And hopefully it is not just a matter of flying under the radar because we are becoming more sophisticated, but simply a matter of learning to behave with each other. Then a number of comments have been made. I would like to give an undertaking that the Ministry will transmit a description of DCUM, both in relation to what is being used by the year, what they are being used on, so that we get an overview of how we have to look at the evaluation at some point, so that we do not take that bite by bit, but actually can see what it is that DCUM is doing, how the resources are distributed, so that we can start to get an overview of where the different parties want it to move towards. So it is merely an undertaking that we will have it forwarded to the committee. Then I would just like to say, as a focus on the form of supervision, that I think that there is a very large difference in the way we supervise as a state. In some places, it is actually relatively barren, if you have to put it that way, where there is supervision that a task is being properly solved, and if it is not, it may have consequences. In other places dialogue-based supervision has been invented, and one might consider that. You could, when you look at DCUM, see if it's the right shape that we need to move on with. There are, like the two extremes, the quite barren and the totally dialogue-based, and the question is whether we have put the cut right on it. I agree with Mrs Marianne Jelved, who says that we should also remember that things cost money. When you sit as a minister, you will be glad that someone has just said it out loud, because it is true that if we are to strengthen the DCUM, it costs money, and then it is a priority that we must make, where there must also be a joint funding. In relation to the debate on discipline, which the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur also promised, I would say that I do not like the word discipline, but if you do not take the semantics of it, I would say that some of my concern is that we are unclear, we have become more unclear in our society. In the old days in the black school and parents and children between, discipline was the tool for being clearly disciplined then. I think there are other ways to be clear. I believe that where pedagogy is best today, a way has actually been found to be very clear adults and at times very square, very square, very square, without having to be in the old-fashioned form, for example. We don't use cane and other things used in the old day. So I think it's about finding a form where it's possible to be clear, and I think there's too little of our society that has done that today. I think that our communities are too unclear and I think that it has become too unclear how to get into the communities, in the binding communities, also as children and young people. Once upon a time, there was a logic in what to do when you grew up, because you could just look at your parents. I don't want to go back to that, but we forgot to create a clear path to where life really should take you. When we dissolve the gender differences, it is also really positive and has very good in it, but it also creates an ambiguity in terms of being able to decode easily where you are in the world. When, at the same time, you have a pedagogy that is not the good part of pedagogy on the stretch, and some parents who may become too vague, it becomes extremely difficult to navigate as a child and as a young person, and it becomes extremely difficult to decode how they are best understood and become a positive part of a community. If you are affected by all the factors as a child, you can easily become either a bully victim or a bully, and there it is that we as a community have to go in and create a much clearer framework. So if I may not use the word 'discipline' and instead just listen to what is actually the content of what the Liberal Alliance rapporteur says, I think I actually agree with it: we need to think about how we can be more clear as a community, as adults and as a school system, as an education system and as a society. I will conclude by saying something that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Jens Joel, said, namely that there is hardly anything worse to be imagined than that your own children are being bullied. And I agree! You would rather be bullied even every morning of every afternoon if you could prevent your own children from getting through it. In fact, I think most of us feel that way, namely that it is simply the worst thing we can imagine our children being exposed to. And that means that of all the things that can happen to your children, I think that exactly that hurts deep into the stomach of each of us, and it fills the whole life when our children are exposed to it. And so seriously we must also take it as Parliament, that is, understand how much it fills, both in the everyday life of the child and in the everyday life of the family, because it is so crucial how we as collective beings work in those communities. So again, thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in the debate. It is so vitally important that we take it from time to time, and then we get it again in this assembly when the government makes a statement. But thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133157	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133203	Yes, it is just a brief remark which may not require an answer. But I completely agree that semantics should not be what you waste your time on. The way in which the Minister explains that the institutions are taking shape and that the institutions are clear about what is expected and what is of traffic regulations, as it were, is also the phenomenon I am talking about. Then it must be called something that we can agree on, so that it is not purely semantic discussions that stand in the way. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133242	Well, I totally agree with that. I usually call it squareness. Whether it's called one thing or the other, it doesn't matter to that extent, doesn't it? But I think it is so that it is easier for children to navigate, and the less one has learned from home how to navigate in a community, the harder it will be to navigate out in the big community, if it is also unclear. So in this way it can be said that the double ambiguity that can then come can make it completely impossible for a child, and one can get completely crazy at the thought of having to figure out how to be part of what is going on in a schoolyard. So, yes, more clarity is certainly good for our children both in one context and in the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133314	Thank you, Minister. Then the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party, asked for the floor for a final remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133327	Thank you. I shall be very brief, but I just thought it was strange to do it as a question to the Minister, which I really think picked up so well here in the end. I would like to thank you for a really, very good debate and for the fact that we can meet together, that this is a subject that we need to address and that we need to do it well. Now the theme on our part has been primary school, but I fully agree that when we discuss it further, it is also the digital world and social media and the whole spectrum that we need to take in. I can hope that we can use primary school as a tool and to say that if we can create good cultures in primary school, it will hopefully also rub off on leisure time. So at that point, it could be a good way in. Then I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment that when we talk about the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, we make it wider and look at their tasks as a whole and see if it can be the tool to solve this in better ways. I am very much in favour of dialogue-based supervision, because being constructive, helping to do things better, therefore, works much better than too many pointed fingers. There is no doubt about that. So thank you very much for the debate and I look forward to further work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133434	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned, the vote on the proposal for adoption will take place on Tuesday 10 December 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133452	This debate will take place from the rapporteurs' usual places, as we have now finished the question debates. The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jens Joel. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133520	Thank you for that, President. This is hardly going to be the longest debate in the world - yes, of course I cannot anticipate that now, but I can at least say on the part of the Social Democrats that we do not regard it as a great cause; nevertheless, it is a stone that can be just as easily eliminated. This is about how to hold the tests that you obviously have to hold to train the high school students to attend the exams. There are a number of different test forms that you have to go through, and there are some specific subjects you need to test in, and this proposal is unanticipated. But what we are proposing is to change the requirement that they should be held as annual tests, that is to say at the end of the school year, because that does not necessarily have to be done; it can also be held after a course of training at the time when it would actually be most educational to be tested. And, by the way, you can deal with how to make the best use of teachers' forces. We also note that the consultation answers are positive. Against this background, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill put forward by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133624	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133636	Thank you. Bill L 79 is an adjustment to the latest revision of the secondary school reform agreed by the then Left Government in June 2016 with a broad majority of the parties in the Folketing. The adjustment allows the so-called annual or internal examinations to be held throughout the year instead of only at the end of the school year. For the Left, it is important that it is not the number of internal tests that are proposed to be changed. Denmark needs generally formed, self-employed and responsible young people. Strong general education involves high professionalism, and we must, of course, test young people in that too. On the other hand, the need to change the timing of the tests makes a great deal of sense. This gives the individual educational institution flexibility in running the tests when it makes the most sense in relation to the academic benefits of the students. In addition, the change also provides greater flexibility in the organisation of teachers' work. The proposal here is a good example of how we must, of course, be ready to adjust legislation to the input we get from teachers and pupils, so that the legislation fits best into the reality of schools. In the Left we look forward to the discussions here and in committee so that together we can make strong upper secondary education even better. So with that remark, I am not so surprised to say that we naturally support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133751	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133800	In the Danish People's Party in 2016, we went to negotiations on the new secondary school reform with a desire to get a higher professional level and to get many tests and retain the number of tests and get them as proper tests and thus ensure that annual tests were not used on various wild-growing projects that I have unfortunately experienced myself. That's why we're gonna be very interested in these annual tests. It then turns out that there are some practical problems in putting so many tests at the end of the school year, and therefore we think it is good that you can solve the problem by moving them to some other times. It is just extremely important to keep them as tests, real tests, where you are tried in what you have learned, instead of giving carte blanche to funny ideas and strange projects. For annual exams such as training exams are incredibly important for the students' ability to go to the exam. And going to the exam is important, it is a very important thing to be able both to be able to the professional material, but also to be able to get it together and be able to overcome the hurdle that an exam is and of course must be. Since for practical reasons it was necessary to move around on it, so that it is now called internal tests and is held at different times, we of course say quite okay to it, as long as you maintain that the content remains the same and it is not allowed to go out in fun or less fun projects. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133944	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206133957	Thank you. I do not want to go into a major debate either; we can always take a good, large and chromed debate on tests another day. I think it must be fun to go to the exam, but of course you have to be tested in what you have to be tested in, and not in anything else, because it would be a little funky if you could use that word. We are very much in favour of achieving a degree of freedom here. It is good to be able to stand here on the platform and support something that is just common sense, about freedom and flexibility for schools, so we welcome the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134030	Thank you to the Radical Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134042	Thank you. When the Danish Parliament adopted the Gymnasium Reform in 2016, it was introduced that internal examinations should be held as annual tests. And this has since proved inappropriate in schools. And that is why we in the SF are pleased that this bill shows that we have listened to the schools by relaxing the demand. The requirement for internal examinations to be held at the end of the school year has also meant that pupils have been subject to additional pressure during their already pressured examination period. We in the SF want to give the students more calm and ensure better well-being. This is necessary, especially when studies show that one in three high school students is considering dropping out of their education and that young people are more pressured than the 20%. Mostly pressured adults. This bill is a small but proper step towards ensuring better well-being for high school students. The requirement for internal examinations to be held at the end of the school year has also proved to be inappropriate in relation to the planning of the school year of the educational institutions and has put unnecessary pressure on both teachers and pupils as well as on the administration of the secondary schools. We know that schools are still under economic pressure after several years of savings, and that is why it is of course only even more important that teachers do not spend their resources on something they do not think makes sense. By allowing training institutions to decide for themselves when they are conducting internal examinations, it is possible for the institutions to run the examinations at the time that makes the best possible sense at each school. And that's good. In the SF we believe that this proposal gives more flexibility to the individual institutions and that both students and teachers will experience less pressure during the exam period. That is why, of course, we also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134220	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134227	Thank you. As a number of rapporteurs have already said, these are minor changes to the rules on internal examinations in high school. I do not want to hide the fact that I look forward to having a wider debate here in the Assembly about tests, their scope and their role in our education system soon. It is not a discussion that we have the pleasure of here Friday afternoon. Here it is just a question of when the internal tests will be held this year. I have also noted that there is a positive feedback from the high schools. Danish Gymnasiums think that this is very good in terms of creating greater flexibility in work organisation, so we can support the proposal in Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134318	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134330	Thank you, President. After all, in 2016, we reached a broad agreement on reform of upper secondary education, and that implementation has been going on for a few years well. Now we see that a challenge has arisen, and it is clear that when you do such a great reform work, it is not certain that you will be hit right the first time. This also makes sense to correct if there are unintended effects. After all, it has been found that the internal tests, which are held as annual tests in both 1st, 2nd and 3rd countries, have been carried out. G is not appropriate for practical reasons. The draft law also states that in some institutions it has been a disproportionate burden during the period of examination and examination. I certainly think we should listen to this, and that is why the Conservative People's Party can also support the proposal to give more flexibility to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134426	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134434	Thank you very much. This bill ensures that internal exams in study orientation subjects in Danish at A-level and in mathematics at A-level or B-level in the three-year secondary educations will not necessarily be held as annual examinations. This will give each institution greater flexibility in the execution of the task, including the ability to ensure the appropriate use of the overall teacher resource available. That's what alternates are for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134504	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. Since I do not see any rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, it is the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134519	Thank you. After all, L 79 is a very good little bill, which many people have already said good things about. I am not here Friday afternoon wasting Parliament's time with a long review. This is a fine proposal, which we also support, and I should like to welcome from the new citizens and say that the same is true for them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134542	Thanks to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, it is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134551	Thank you for your support. I would like to admit that it is not the world's biggest proposal that comes here. Nevertheless, I do believe that this is essential because it must also be possible to plan in schools. In this way we have not quite done it well enough, and this proposal will be corrected. So I agree with the part that it will take part of the pressure out there, both in terms of planning, but also, of course, in relation to the pupils, because the school year gets a more natural flow than this one, where we have got it pressed in the wrong way. So it is a small abolition of something that has been able to create a frustration out there. Of course, we must do so, and I am glad that we can do so together. So thank you for a short debate, but also for a small proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134633	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191206134651	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 10 December 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website, and I shall also refer to the weekly schedule which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
