ParlaMint-DK_20190123130003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Question No. F 35 (What can the Minister say about the evaluation of the reform of early retirement flexible jobs?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130024	The first question is for the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, and the questioner is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130036	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130039	Thank you. The question is: is it justified, in the view of the Minister, when solar cell owners who have been transferred to flex exchange feel that, despite political promises to the contrary, their situation has deteriorated significantly since they made investments in private solar installations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130102	Thank you for that and thank you for your question. Jens Joel. Like the rest of the Danes, some 85,000 solar cell owners are being transferred to a new way of measuring electricity consumption, the so-called flex bill. The ambition of a flexible energy system, where we are more actively controlling consumption through remote reading meters and flex billing, is an important part of last year's energy agreement, for which everyone in this Chamber is actually part of the remote reading meters, something for which the Social Democracy was banner leaders. Social democracy as part of the SRSF government back in 2013 helped to initiate roll-out of remote reading meters for all electricity consumers in Denmark. For PV owners, flex exchange means that their consumption is no longer settled on an annual basis. I understand that the solar owners are frustrated by that. I have asked my Ministry to reverse every stone to see if it is possible for solar cell owners to keep their terms, but a decision by the National Tax Court in 2016 decided that it is not possible to calculate the net annual VAT on solar cell owners' purchases from the grid. However, it should be borne in mind that solar cell owners will continue to be able to calculate the electricity tax on an annual basis as well as the PRS. It is therefore only the electricity price that will be flexified. In total, this means an additional cost in the order of DKK 200-500. per year for each solar owner and the majority is for VAT on the purchase of electricity. The solar cell owners still have an economic advantage of an average of DKK 7,200. per year in relation to other electricity consumers. So the solar cell owners still have a good arrangement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130243	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130245	Thank you. I don't really know how to understand the minister's. I guess I almost have to understand it as if it is not justified when the solar owners say that their relationship has deteriorated significantly. On the one hand, the Minister tells us that it is still a very good business, and on the other hand he insists that it is a very small change and that you stand well in relation to others. So is it to be understood that, according to the Minister, there is nothing to come after for the solar owners? Does the Minister think that what is going on and what has happened in relation to the PV owners is quite as it should be and does not justify criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130329	I understand that the solar owners are criticizing this. I also understand that some may be frustrated. But it's such that this flex settlement agreement was one that was made under the then SRSF government. The Left has taken responsibility for it, and I hope the questioner will. After all, it is to ensure more flexible electricity consumption and to ensure more efficient electricity consumption at all. Then there has been a question about this, and is whether you have to pay VAT on the electricity you pull from the grid or whether you shouldn't. And there is the decision that solar cell owners on an equal footing with all other Danes will have to pay VAT on the part of electricity consumption that they draw from the grid. They must continue to netly settle in relation to the PRS tax, in relation to the electricity tax. It is only in relation to the part dealing with the purchase of the electricity, plus the VAT on the purchase of the electricity, that this settlement has to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130422	Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130423	The Minister makes it sound as if we have decided politically that these conditions need to be changed. What is at issue is that the Minister said the first time this case arose that it had nothing to do with it; that it is a decision which lies purely administratively. When the pressure was increased, the Minister said that he had better go into the matter. Then the minister asked his ministry to look at things one more time, and now the minister has concluded that the ministry was right. So the Minister cannot really find out whether or not there is any reason to interfere politically with this. I would really like to ask: why have we not had a political discussion about these changes that affect those people out there? Why is it that the Minister refers to the fact that this is only an administrative discussion and something that we do not have to deal with politically? So, for the sake of good order, can the Minister just point out that unfortunately it is not only the VAT that has changed, but also the electricity bill, that is to say the electricity price, which is new to what was presented in 2012?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130525	That's the electricity price, it's a 25-30 cents it's swinging a little bit and then it's the VAT on the electricity price that you have to net settle. This is an old political agreement. We voted in favour of the bill tabled in the morning of time by the then government, in which the Social Democratic Party was at the top of the table. Then there has been a ruling by the IRS on the question of whether VAT should be paid on the electricity being extracted from the grid, and then I asked my ministry to investigate it because I thought: could the 85,000 solar cell owners be exempted from this at all? Was there any way to do that? They examined this, and the conclusion was that they came back with the fact that it was not possible to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130609	Thank you. Then it's the last round to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130610	After all, it is fairly obvious that in 2012 we made a change in the rules for PV owners. Then we said in return that those who had invested could stay on their transitional period for 20 years. It was an annual net measurement calculation, and that is what people are frustrated about now being changed. So I think it is a little bit too bad that we do not have a political discussion about this, but that it is something that the Minister does in this way. And I also think that there is incredibly great uncertainty about the consequences it has out there. Has the Minister heard of some of the solar owners who have written to me and who say that the amount is then somewhat higher than DKK 200-500, as the Minister maintains? Has the Minister heard of solar owners who are economically hit harder than DKK 200-500??
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130659	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130701	There may be a few very few who will be hit harder. Approx. 80% of the solar cell owners will be at a level below DKK 500. Some and twenty percent will be closer to 200 kroner, and then there will be a few that will be at a level slightly above. I know, of course, that this is part of a political agreement on flex exchange, but I would also like to say that it is still a very, very favorable business to have invested in a solar system for the most common ones, and there will be a gain of DKK 7,200. per years. In relation to an average consumer, it will be a question of whether the plant has been repaid in 10 years, and with this you will be up close to 10.8 years, perhaps close to 11 years for some, and you will then have free power until the 20 years when the plant is then fully written off. It will still be a favourable arrangement. I would have liked this to be possible in a different way, and I have looked into it and done everything I could possibly do. In relation to the ruling by the tax administration, it is a fact that it is difficult to do differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130809	Thank you. Then we say thank you to the questioner. We're keeping the minister on the field, as there's a new questioner, and that's Mr. Simpson. Bjarne Laustsen, the Social Democrat, who is now being given the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130816	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130820	Thank you very much, sir. President. The question is: what opportunities and initiatives will the Minister take to cable the ugly and mature Konti-Skan line across Læsø and can and will the Minister impose on the owners of the power line to pay the costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130837	Thank you for the question. I'd like to say to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, that I fully understand that the Læsø citizens would like to have the DC cord running across Læsø in the ground. As I have previously replied in this Chamber, the relationship over Læsø was assessed in relation to the 2009 appreciation plan. The connection over Læsø was not among the six projects which were assessed to have the highest environmental impact. The selection of the six selected projects was confirmed by the PSO agreement in November 2016, which also includes the Social Democratic Party. For me, it is important that we ensure a good balance in terms of nature and people and in terms of a high level of security of supply, without making excessive use of the flow. This requires us to look coherently at the infrastructure and the costs we place on businesses and citizens. With the impregnation plan, we have had an overall environmental assessment of where it gives the greatest value to have the large masters removed. That's the right way to do it. We agreed with the Social Democratic Party on this, and this was confirmed by the PESO agreement circle in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130945	Then it's mr. Then it's sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123130945-2	Thank you and thank you for your reply. I think the Minister is a little out of the question. I'd like to maintain the • not just because I'm chosen in the area that Læsø is a fantastic natural gem. When the line was made, the Læsøbos benefited from it, and then it was accepted. Today it is the case that that line just transports power between Denmark and Sweden, and it is a billion-dollar business. And what is to say here and respect for the fact that political decisions have been made, where one looked away from Læsø is that Læsø is thus a natural gem, and one can easily argue that it is not a good thing for the environment and nature to have the line of 15 km across Læsø. That is why I am asking now, when the Minister has no more money in the cable box, whether he will help to impose on the company that owns the line the digging of the wire. It is now and here that the window is open, because it is refurbishing fashion. A lot of money needs to be spent on it. That is why it is foolish to invest some money in renovating something that will eventually have to be buried when it is technically possible to do so. That is why I have asked today whether the Minister can and will. Because he speaks everywhere else in the country about how much he cares that these wires do not desecrate and that they should not bother the citizens of the local area, etc. Therefore, it is interesting whether all those views that the Minister has on this also apply when it comes to Læsø and Konti-Skan line and to putting it on the ground. It's just about 15 km across Læsø. The rest is wired like sea cables.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131137-2	Thank you. I completely share Bjarne Laustsen's assessment that Læsø is a very, very beautiful area. I have also been there as a minister and have also had an opportunity to visit the island in private years ago. I understand that Bjarne Laustsen, when it is part of his constituency, is of course responsible for Læsø's interests. There is good reason for that too. There was a cable action plan which selected six projects. Social democracy was part of the cable action plan. It was confirmed when we entered into the PSO agreement... what was to be buried and what was not to be buried. Læsø was not among the six projects. I have to deal with that. I don't just have a cash box that I can shovel money out of, or pull money out of a tree. The difference between wired and airborne is that we should say this, so we make sure that the definition is the right one is that one costs 200 million. kr., the other costs 10 million. kr. The money is distributed. They are divided between six projects. I can't just stand here and change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131236	Thank you. Now, if we ignore that thing with that cable box and those projects and all that, it's about whether the minister can and will do anything. Well, he can do something in a whole lot of other cases. This economic argument has been used, and now you can see here that electricity cables have to be dug down for 1.4 billion. kr. out in West Jutland. There you can see that you are counting on the number of kilometers that it will cost approx. 7,821 kr. per metres. On Læsø it suddenly costs twice as much: DKK 13,422. How come there's that difference? You turn the price up when it comes to getting some cable laid on Læsø, but when it comes to West Jutland, the price is almost half the price. So, the Minister must be able to see for himself that it cannot be that it costs twice as much on Læsø as in West Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131328-2	Thank you. First of all, there is a difference between Læsø and the cable there and then, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen refers in his question to the cable in West Jutland. In West Jutland there is a new cableing of a 400 kV wire, and some thought has been given to how to get the landscape into a mess. On Læsø, it is the replacement of an existing wire and in the same traché that the wire must be operated and it makes a difference. In relation to the financial calculations, it's not something I'm sitting here with my calculator looking at. There are people who know about this partly in Energinet and partly in the Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. And if the questioner needs a detailed account of the economic calculations about the difference in what it costs in one place or another, then I am happy to forward it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131416	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131417	Thank you. I think there is a great need for us to be told that it is then nothing with the economy and that the economy is such and such, or that there is it and that difference. But I still need to know that this is not something for which the state has to grant subsidies from that cable box. It is simply a question of whether the minister has an authority and a will to say to those who own the line that this is a line that will last for 50 years after it has been buried. And then you can do a calculation of how much it would be per. kW if the line carries electricity for 1 billion. kr. a year. You would barely be able to see that in relation to the small investment, it would be putting these cables on the ground and making Læsø more beautiful.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131502	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131504	Thank you again for the question. It is the case that there are many places in the country where you want cables to be buried. There is a political agreement which is also an essential part of the priority given to the money available for cable laying. And I just have to say that six projects have been selected, and Læsø was not one of the six projects. I cannot just go and say that now, on top of the six projects, I want to impose an additional cost on Energy Networks and thus on consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131533	Thank you to the questioner. It is the case that both the questioner and the minister remain on the line, so the next question is again for the Minister for Climate, Supply and Energy by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131544	Sir. Bjarne Lausten for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131547	Thank you, sir. President. The question is: why has the Minister not ensured that the 540 million? DKK allocated to reduce the heating price of the small heating plants affected by the cancellation of the basic amount has been distributed in such a way that their district heating customers could have avoided price increases by more than 50%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131608	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Bjarne Laustsen for the question. The basic amount came to an end as planned by the end of 2018. The EU's State aid rules mean that the aid cannot be extended. Unfortunately, therefore, some consumers will be affected by rising heat prices. This is a matter which I take very seriously. As a minister, it has therefore been very, very important for me to ensure good framework conditions for the works, so that they themselves have the opportunity to reduce prices. The works can cut approx. 3,000 kroner. of the heating bill by e.g. to invest in a heat pump. This is why the government and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties with the energy agreement last year significantly relaxed the electric heating tax. In addition, the production bonds as agreed have been abolished for smaller district heating areas as from 1 January 2019. With the energy agreement, we also agreed to allocate a pool of 540 million. kr. I have to admit that I do not fully understand the question put by the questioner. It is very clear in the agreement, which was also part of the social democracy, that the 540 million. kr. shall be translated into four pools. In the conciliation circle we agreed last year on a specific coinage of three of the pools. As agreed, this money can come out to work from 2019 onwards. In addition, we targeted 150 million. kr. directly to the affected heat customers. Unfortunately, the State aid rules impose clear restrictions on how such a scheme could be implemented. I discussed this with the conciliation group before Christmas. Here there was broad agreement to look with fresh eyes at how best to benefit consumers. That is why I shall be discussing this in a conciliation meeting shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131750	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131751	Thank you for your answer. Now I couldn't dream of accusing the Minister of sitting on his hands. After all, I know the Minister as really cash and know that he responds when it is. Not long ago there was a report from the Climate Council, and by the end of the day the chairman had changed. So the minister can do it anytime he wants. In this case, I have documents showing that this case was also up and running in 2016. The Minister then spoke to the Danish Radio about his concern and said that something had to be done to counteract it, because it was well aware that there would be an increase when the basic amount fell away. Our rapporteur in this area, Mr. Jens Joel, has asked the Minister about it down here in the Chamber both in 2016 and 2017, and the Minister confirmed that it was very close to his heart. But there is no agreement yet. That is why customers in the outermost regions are both addressing me and the Minister and saying that their heating bills are rising and rising. I think the Minister has the imagination to imagine that if you suddenly have to pay more than twice as much in this year's year to heat up the same house with the same amount of heat you used last year, then it will be a question of whether people can afford it at all. But there is also the fact that the house becomes unsellable, one becomes bound and cannot dispose of it. It is a very, very sad development in our villages, in our outermost regions, that you can find yourself in that situation because there are some changes in the energy sector. That is why I hope that the Minister has the goodwill that he constantly talks about, and also writes to the citizens that he has and that he looks at it. There's money set aside for this area, they're just warming up somewhere. However, it is intended that they should be sent to consumers so that heating plants can lower the price and the unfortunate consequences that exist can be reduced, and since this is a well-known matter, I believe that this issue should have already been dealt with, so that the reductions had already been made to consumers per year. 1 January this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123131956	This is a matter which concerns me and the government very, very strongly, and that is also why, in the context of the Energy Agreement, we actually recommended and on the initiative of the government to allocate more than 500 million. kr. to remedy the heat price increases that will be in a number of areas as a result of the electricity generation grant per year. On 1 January most of them will disappear. The works have known this since 2004-2005, so it can be said that there has been some time to prepare for it, and fortunately many works have also done so by putting aside money in order to be able to stand as strong as possible. In fact, we have given the works some tools for this. We are facilitating the electricity tax, which allows us to use heat pumps, and then we have actually taken three out of the four initiatives relating to the distribution of the 540 million. kr., among others. is 300 million. kr. distributed to handle stranded costs. Then there is the sum of 150 million. kr. in relation to ensuring a possible handheld distribution of money to the most affected areas. We're looking at that. There are some obstacles to some EU state aid rules that we must meet. I have had a meeting with the conciliation circle where we discussed this and there is agreement that that money must be in play to ensure that consumers are given a lower heat price.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132111	Thank you. Although the Minister is very concerned about this question, we have some speaking time and there will be plenty of opportunity to reply, because I think that Mr. Bjarne Laustsen is going to ask again and again. Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132121	Yes, and I hope that the President's speaking time does not run out of my speaking time. But I can see that, as the Minister says, these heaters have known something about these various things during the past period. I can also see that they write that they have acted completely after the advice that the Minister mentioned here. But what is missing is the last part. And what amazes me is that the Minister does not ensure that a political agreement is reached so that the money goes out to work for the benefit of district heating customers who are now seeing price increases of over 50% this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132201	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132202	Excuse me, but it is the government that has proposed the 540 million. kr. There were not many proposals from the Social Democratic Party in this context. It is the government which has proposed concrete initiatives to ease the electricity tax and a large number of other things. And so it is in relation to the distribution of the 150 million. kr., as sir. Bjarne Laustsen is somewhat outraged that the money is in play, they are set aside, and we just have to make sure that they come into the right hands and are distributed in the right way. We are well in the process of doing that, too, with Mr. Knox. Bjarne Laustsen's party, to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132230	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen for the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132231	I fully agree with the Minister that social democracy is a large and important party in Denmark and plays an extremely important role. But that is also why, if the right proposal comes to the conciliation circle, I am absolutely certain that the Social Democrats have the ability and the will to undo it and ensure that the money allocated for that purpose gets out to work. Today the Minister sits and warms the money, and they do not benefit district heating customers. Because there is a real problem that we must solve together so that we do not get into this situation of citizens not being able to pay the heating bill and being tied to the house they live in today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132307	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132308	I just want to say that the range of initiatives is significant. On top of this, we also remove the production bonds for between 400 and 500 works here from 1 January, so that they do not have to make both electricity and heat; it will also help solve this a number of places. Then I might think that what I'm experiencing with these questions is a little bit sought. I really think that a massive effort is being made, and I am actually very, very pleased with the close cooperation I have with the author's party, but it is easy enough to stand here and be pious. On the other hand, I am quite concerned that we are finding concrete solutions. What concerns me as a minister is that we should ensure that we have proper solutions in order to counter the enormous increases in heat prices which will come in some places, which are, after all, the result of something for which both parties have taken responsibility in the past, and that is in relation to the green transition and the whole conversion to cogeneration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132401	We thank both the questioner and the Minister. We move forward, and now it is a question to the Minister for Health, and that is by Mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132408	Sir. Magnus Heunicke now has the floor for the reading of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132410	Thank you, President. Yes, it is to the Minister for Health, and the question is: can the Minister guarantee that Næstved Hospital can be maintained as a special hospital with cancer treatment, surgery, ambulances for medical diseases and a medical bed section, etc., if the government's health proposal with new hospital structure is implemented, and can the Minister explain where this decision will lie with the proposed structural change?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132444	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132445	Thank you. I can hear that the Socialists have started such a scaremongering campaign, touring around after the Danish map and saying that this hospital will be shut down, this hospital will be shut down. That is why I would like to start by stating very clearly and clearly that the government, with the proposal for a health reform, is not going to change the current hospital structure. Having said that, what are we setting up for? What we are proposing is to create a more close health service, a more coherent health service, a health service in which patients' rights are more respected, a health service in which we will have a higher quality and also a higher quality of the health services that are close to where we live, with a strengthened general practice, with strengthened municipal health houses where more treatments can take place. With the reform of health, we are proposing that 500,000 consultations currently taking place under the auspices of the hospital should move into the near health care system close to where people live. We are proposing to prevent 40 000 unnecessary admissions, which we can see today especially for older people. That is why we also set up 21 health communities around the 21 emergency hospitals and also the hospitals and psychiatry located in the vicinity, in order to ensure more closeness and coherence in the treatment. It is about creating coherence, for example. for the benefit of the elderly medical patient, who today sometimes finds that there is not enough coordination, i.e. that you fall down between two chairs when you are discharged from a hospital and have to make a municipal offer, and your own doctor is connected to it. We must strengthen that, so that patients are entitled to strengthen them with a health reform. This also means quite specifically that Næstved Hospital will, as a starting point, form part of a health community around the emergency hospital in Slagelse and the psychiatry in Slagelse and the municipalities located in the vicinity, because it is important that we create more proximity. In this context, we are also creating a political superstructure, in which, among other things, we are building a political structure. the mayors will be anchored, just as in a number of areas we ensure a more national direction for our health care, so for example. In the future, patients in the Region of Zealand will find that their patients' rights are being respected, which, unfortunately, they will not be today. So a strengthened, more close and coherent health care for the citizens of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132703	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132704	When I ask this question to the Minister, it is because as late as November last year, i.e. a few months ago, the Region of Zealand adopted the plan here I have a plan for the Næstved Hospital, including what it should have of functions. And the features listed here are among others. features for patients who have heart disease, diabetes, lung diseases, cancers and various elderly diseases plus a medical section and a number of other things. This is something that is democratically decided by a regional council, which means that if, after the next regional elections, there is a majority that wants to change it, add some more departments or, what I think would be a bad idea, remove some of these departments from the Næstved Hospital and put them somewhere else, then it is a democratic decision. This also means that the citizens of Zealand, in particular South Zealand, know who to answer for, who to call. I would therefore like to say that these are fine words from the Minister, but sometimes you have to hear not only what is being said but also what is not being said. And what wasn't said and didn't come was a guarantee that Næstved Hospital, with these functions, would be preserved with the government's changed structure. That is simply why I have to ask the Minister the question again: can the Minister guarantee that the Næstved Hospital with at least these functions I had hoped there would be more people being preserved with the government's proposals for a new structure? And in addition to that, where is it the decision on which tasks and which departments are in which hospitals are being taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132906	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123132907	I would like to repeat that with some of the other things I said before, because it is a scaremongering campaign on the part of the Social Democrats. Well, I'm afraid so. I actually find that both employees and patients in the Danish healthcare system have a wish that there were also parties in the opposition that would take responsibility for driving the development of our health care, but there is not. Historically, this has also been the case, because there the Socialists have stood by, they have not wanted to take part in the initiatives that have been taken to set up the regions, nor will they now take responsibility for ensuring a stronger health service. I can only urge you to do so. That is why I would like to repeat: our health reform does not relate to and will not lead to a change in the current hospital structure. On the other hand, it will move tasks into the near health services, closer to where people live, and that is what is needed because too many citizens today have to drive too far for relatively simple consultations and treatments. And we need to change that so that we have more proximity and more coherence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133005	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133006	It would actually be quite easy to answer yes or no to this, but instead the Minister says she wants to repeat herself. There is no need to repeat what is being said by the Minister. What I am asking is whether a guarantee has been built into the new structural proposal. The minister says that the government is not going to change, but where are those decisions to be made? If the Minister thinks that I am conducting a scaremongering campaign, I would like to invite the Minister to Næstved to meet the citizens of Næstved, because they are extremely nervous about what will happen in future to their hospital, which already has too few functions, and that is precisely because of that proposal. So I hope the Minister will be a part of that. But first of all, can we get an answer as to where the decision on which departments should be located should be taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133054	Well, the health reform is not intended to change the current hospital structure. On the other hand, some of the tasks, such as: Today, in nursing-run outpatients and in emergency hospitals, it can be found in the neighbourhoods. be municipal health houses, specialist hospitals or general practice. And that is because, in fact, we also think that in South Zealand there are citizens who are running too far for relatively simple studies which, instead of being able to be carried out in their vicinity, could be carried out. I can hear that the Social Democrats disagree with that, and that is really, really, really a pity. As far as Næstved is concerned, I have also had the pleasure of visiting the Næstved Hospital and I am happy to do so again in order to encourage the scaremongering which Mr. Magnus Heunicke and others are touring around with, in the ground. I have also visited one of the good medical houses down in Næstved, and it would actually have meant a great deal to them if the region could have put some of the functions into general practice, for example. in special hospitals, instead of sending patients to hospitals for relatively simple consultations. Therefore, the task here is to create more proximity in our health care and move tasks closer to where people live.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133157	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133158	Minister, I am trying to clarify the proposal put forward by the government itself, and I have asked each and every time I have had the floor: where is it that the decision on possible changes to which functions are in which hospitals should be taken? Today we know that it is in the regions that these decisions are taken. This means that there is a democratic control that is an opportunity to pick up the phone that is able to put its tick that is capable of influencing as a citizen. Where is the decision on Næstved Hospital and all the other hospitals to be made? In other words, the decision on which departments are to be maintained and what tasks are to be carried out there? Where is that decision made, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133243	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133244	Well, the health reform does not lead to a change in the hospital structure, and Mr. Magnus Heunicke can stand so many times and run the scaremongering and like stand and claim that there is in the government's plan to say that Næstved Hospital is being closed, but it is simply factually wrong. In relation to the question, I would like to say that the annual development plan must be set up at national level in order, for example, to comply with the principle of subsidiarity. Patients' rights throughout the country ensure a uniform development, where we also support the fact that more tasks are moving closer to where people live, and the health services will have to live up to that in the future, and also to the professional demands made by the Danish Health Authority. That's why I'm actually just gonna have to ask Mr. Magnus Heunicke and the Social Democratic Party to try to start to relate constructively to the developments we need in our healthcare, with more proximity and more coherence, instead of just being opposed. For that is what I believe neither patients nor employees deserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133338	Thank you both to the Minister and the questioner. We will keep the Minister on the platform and give the floor to Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party, for questions to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133348	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133349	Thank you. I'm gonna run the microphone down a little bit, if I'm gonna be able to see over the edge, too, because it was a little tall gentleman standing here just before. Does the Minister agree with his party colleague, the chairman of the Danish Regioner Stephani Lose, when he says about the government's announced health reform: "With Løkkes's plan, it will be more official and board government that will dictate reality for citizens, and I would like to warn against that. I believe in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133415	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133417	Thank you for the question. That the chairman of Danske Regioner thinks that Danske Regioner is the right place and takes his starting point there, I do not think anyone can be surprised. With the health reform, we want to strengthen the close health services in the municipalities and in general practice, so that we can have more treatments, more health services that come closer to where we live, so that patients in fewer areas have to go on a strenuous and unnecessary trip to the hospital. And so there is more coherence in the effort they experience, which often goes across what happens with their own doctor, what happens at the hospital, and what happens in the municipal offers. That is why we are establishing the new health communities. At the same time, we will be setting a strong national direction for health care, which also means that, in some respects, the elected representatives in the Folketing will have to set much more common national guidelines for the development of health care than those set out in the annual development plan. And, of course, there will be an interaction between Parliament and the government in order to ensure that, for example, One thing which, unfortunately, the regions have not been good enough to respect, namely patients' rights, will in future be much more respected. That is one of the points. Another point is, for example, that of the Commission. The emergency area in order to ensure that there is security throughout the country... that we strengthen our emergency preparedness across the country. In this respect, we believe that there is a need for more national anchoring and also for ensuring that this applies to the whole country. So, when we create a new structure, is it an expression of government? In other words, if I am to understand the question in such a way that Mrs Astrid Krag believes that this is the case, then I have to say that Mrs Astrid Krag and I look differently at the mayors of the country and the country's more than 2,400 elected representatives in the municipalities. Because if she calls it a government of officials to move more treatments and more decisions closer to where people live, in other words into the new 21 health communities and into the municipalities with binding quality requirements in relation to the health task to be solved, then we look at it differently. And this also applies to the innovation in the construction, namely that the patient associations directly nominate people to the boards of health administrations and health services Denmark. If this is an expression of government, then I have to say that, in my view, it is about bringing patients right into the operating space of our healthcare, so that we have a healthcare system that puts patients first. That is what the government wants, and we are happy to do so, because it is really about creating a better healthcare system with more proximity, coherence, higher quality and also compliance with patients' rights across the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133658	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133658-2	That was, of course, the same answer as my party colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Magnus Heunicke, just before, although the question was quite different. I would say that I think it was a rather nasty sweeping of the party colleague Stephanie Lose's objection to the reform, namely that it should be because she, one must almost understand, hung her own skin as chairman of the Danish Regions, and therefore cannot relate politically and ideologically to whether it is a good idea to have an elected regional link. I don't think that was very pretty. I myself have read a long interview with Stephani Lose, where she explains it and pulls threads all the way back to when the Left started as a peasant party, and how she believes that the people's regime, and thus also that you have the opportunity to hold some elected people accountable, and that you have the local representation, is absolutely crucial. So I have to say that I do not think it was in the nice ball street to try to sweep away the completely legitimate and relevant objections which have come not only from Stephani Lose but from a large number of the Minister's own party colleagues in the Left. This makes good sense to me, but I can also hear that it is incredibly reverberating in the party that the Left has historically been. So for the more substantive. The minister was asked many times by Mr. Magnus Heunicke on who it is that will be making decisions in the future, for example. on Næstved Hospital. Other examples could also be found around the country. Who is going to make the decisions? And when the Minister does not want to answer that, it is because there is a clear centralisation and a flash. And there is the obvious problem that in future there will be no elected representatives who can be held accountable once that decision has been taken. It's not that Mr. Magnus Heunicke or others in the Social Democratic Party say that there is a new planning in the reform currently presented. But that is the reform that our health services will have to operate for many decades to come if the government gets power as it has been watching. That is why it is quite appropriate to ask about the future, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke did: who is it that can be held responsible for the decisions taken, for example. about Næstved Hospital?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123133914	I can hear that Mrs Astrid Krag and I look very differently at elected representatives, because I hear that Mrs Astrid Krag does not believe that our more than 2,400 elected representatives in the municipalities have any value, or that the 179 who sit in the Folketing have a value as elected representatives. I have to say that I fundamentally disagree with that. That is why we also have to deal with the fact that with the proposal for a health reform that we have made on the part of the government, we will have to commit our close health services, in the health communities, in the municipalities and in our elected representatives. We don't see them as officials. I understand that the Social Democrats think they are. I think that's too bad. Similarly, in a number of national areas, we believe that it is necessary to ensure national compliance, for example. patients' rights and that in the end it is also set out in the annual development plan from in here that there is the pressure to ensure that the citizens of the Region of Zealand are not left on the platform and have a worse explanation and less respect for their patients' rights than citizens of some of the other regions. I think it is quite reasonable that we should say that elected representatives in here should ultimately be on that score as well. This is a proximity reform that shifts tasks out, and I am happy to discuss this further with Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134025	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134026	But it was quite new information if it is to be understood that it is the Danish Parliament that appoints the boards of health services Denmark and the regional administrations. I haven't heard that before. Then I have not understood the reform of the government correctly. So the Minister can certainly confirm it if it is the elected representatives of the Danish Parliament who will in future put together the boards of directors. That's news for me. Don't be silly about saying that I don't think the 2,400 local elected representatives have value. Of course I think they do. But I find it very difficult to see how they can shoulder the responsibility that they will be imposed on them with the structure that the government is setting up. Can the Minister not also confirm, in addition to explaining who actually appoints and appoints board members in the government structure, that it is true that in this way there is a right of veto and that everything must be decided by unanimity in the local health communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134116	I think that Mrs Astrid Krag should read the report again, and then perhaps the Social Democrats should find out whether they will just be against, against and against, just as they have always been when it has been about taking responsibility for the major lines of our health services. I think that's a real shame. I hope that the Social Democratic Party will take responsibility and help ensure a health service where there is more proximity, where we set the ambitious goal of moving 500,000 treatments closer to where people live, instead of being centrally located in hospitals as they are today, and a health service where there is more coherence, a healthcare where patients' rights are better respected and also extended, and a healthcare where we lift quality. In relation to the question of board composition, this was not what I referred to before; it was the development plan and the annual development plan that will drive the national direction. It is, of course, the case that we clearly say that we think it is important in this way that, when we push more tasks into the nearest health services and create more proximity, we also take more national responsibility in some areas; that we also take the consequence of simplifying from three levels to two levels, thus ensuring that we can free up 1.5 billion. kr., which we put into the proximity fund, which we can then move from administration to health homes and ambulances. It is, of course, a political priority and I hope that the Social Democrats will be involved. I think it would benefit our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134238	I think we can certainly get around it all, even within speaking time, because we also have fellow-questioners on it. That is why I now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134245	Thank you very much, President. The question here is, of course, that the chairman of the Danish Regions, the Left politician Stephanie Lose, has stated that what lies in the health reform is what is the Prime Minister's plan here. Let me put my first question to the Minister for Health: Does the Minister for Health think that the two bodies, the Health Service Denmark, as the highest authority in the future, are either more democratic or less democratic, according to plan, and the five non-elected health authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134334	We are happy to measure the construction we have made, where we push more tasks into the health communities where our mayors sit. We do not regard our mayors and our elected representatives in the municipalities as officials. I understand the Socialists are doing that. I think this is a really, really bad approach to our local democracy in the municipalities. They are going to have to carry out more tasks and we are going to ensure that there is a higher quality of health provision so that we can move more health tasks closer to where people live. For there are a lot of people who experience that the nearest hospital has become a long way off. That is why we need to move more treatments and more controls closer to where people live. If we then take Healthcare Denmark and the Board of Directors, it will of course consist of the five presidents of the five health administrations. There, of course, we in the government have set out to encourage Stephanie Lose, Anders Kühnau and the four Social Democratic Regional Council presidents who are sitting today to continue. Then there will be a representative of the patient organisations, and there will be some professionals with health professional skills and IT skills. I do not agree with the fact that this does not reflect the fact that there is both a local anchoring and a patient democratic anchoring directly into our healthcare system. I believe that democracy and forms of organisation have a wide variety of features. I think it is more important that we also look very much at what is needed in our health services in the coming years and what it is then for a set-up that should be for it. It is about more proximity and also, in some areas, some national binding obligations to ensure that there is not so much inequality in health care both geographically and socially, as we are unfortunately seeing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134509	Thank you. In fact, I think I got the answer I wanted. For the Minister of Health actually agrees with her party colleague, the chairman of the Danish Regions, Stephani Lose, in her statement that it will be the officials that it will be the boards who will decide largely in relation to the overall structure of our health care. It takes the government's responsibility, yes, but you're gonna have to answer for it too. Then the Minister says that there will be politicians in the five health services. Yes, it is planned during the transition period, but what will happen after that period? It is certainly also a matter of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134556	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134556-2	I very much disagree with the questioner because this is not going to be McKinsey consultants and officials without faces, as Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen tours with. That's what the Prime Minister said at the press conference. What we imagine are people who have both deep health knowledge and competences, which lie in the field of tension between politics and health, and who will also be targeted at some of the decisions that sometimes need to be made. This isn't about moving decisions into dark boardrooms. Basically, we are moving more tasks into our municipalities, into our 21 health communities, where we have strong elected links that need to commit more to health care. But there are also some tasks that we move in here and where we say that in the end it is also the Folketing that has to take responsibility for the fact that there are not so many differences in our healthcare system. And then there are some in the middle who have to help drive it, and it has to lie in the tension between politics and health care and with patient representatives, so that we ensure that patients get to our healthcare system first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134653	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen and return to the main questioner, Mrs Astrid Krag, for a final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134658	Thank you. And I have to say that I think that if some people are to sit out there and keep up with them, they are still deeply confused about where to go and who to approach to ensure the locally adapted considerations and solutions that have been decided today, because there are locally elected regional politicians who are accountable and who stand up to their voters, and can also be replaced if the voters disagree with them. The mayors are being held up as a shield, I understand, and if you don't think this structure is good, it's because you don't have respect for the mayors. I really hope no one jumps on that mysterious spin. But can't the Minister just confirm that she didn't say at the end that it wouldn't be in the fora where the mayors sit, that you have the economy or the decision-making power?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134745	I strongly disagree with Mrs Astrid Krag that health communities will not become an engine of our close health care in the years to come. They will certainly be, and that is why, with our health reform, we are proposing to change some of the legislation that today prevents joint funding, prevents joint management, prevents joint recruitment, or at least makes it so difficult that a great many opportunities for cooperation in our health services are not as close as they should be. This is a reform that creates more closeness. It is going to relocate 500,000 treatments that people and patients today have to drive a long way to get. It will ensure that our general practice is strengthened and will ensure that cooperation between the municipality, hospital and general practice is strengthened. That is exactly what we need in our health services to improve quality and to put patients first. I hope that the Social Democratic Party will play its part in taking responsibility. I think it is amazing to see that you have no idea what should basically make our health care stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134840	Thank you, and thank you to both the questioner and the minister. We're changing our roles now, but we're keeping the minister in place, and now it's Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democrat, for reading a very long question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134854	Thank you, President. Does the Minister agree with his party colleague Søren Gade when he says that there is an ambulance in Lemvig, and it is certain that if you take a DJØF spreadsheet, it is a really bad business. It does not run with many patients, but it is safe for the citizens of the Lemvig area. And that's what politicians have to do. They must be given priority, and you can actually buy security for money. It's just a small example, and there's plenty of them all over Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134929	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123134931	All citizens in Denmark must be confident that they will receive the necessary help if they are suffering from acute illness or an accident. This is true whether you live in Lemvig, Lyngby or onion. And citizens must also be able to see how they get the right help if they are suffering from acute illness or an accident. We just have to note that today's emergency offers are organised very, very differently, depending on where you are in the country and what time it is on the day. It's not clear enough and safe enough everywhere. That is also why the government is giving priority to the security of citizens in the emergency area. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have also given priority to funding for a fourth emergency medical helicopter in Denmark in connection with the 2018 Finance Act. The emergency area in the government's health programme is moving up to a greater extent to be a national responsibility, because we do not think it is fair that there is such a big difference between the speed with which ambulances and emergency aid arrive in Denmark today. That is why we believe that we need to make a fine-meshed health service even better, and we are also devoting additional resources to that. With the proximity fund provided for in the health reform, we propose that 10 to 15 additional emergency measures be put in place in the form of emergency medical vehicles, emergency cars and ambulances, in order to secure those areas of the country where, unfortunately, there are black holes today, because the regions have not taken up that part of the task to a sufficiently uniform extent. It is also very clear from the proposal for health reform that we expect the regions not to remove or shift the tools that are available in the near future, so that there is a deterioration in coverage. And it has to be said that there have been examples of this around the regions. There have also been examples of it being proposed and not being implemented. So no, we have no plans to put down the emergency medical car. It is not an ambulance that is in Lemvig; we actually have the plan that we should create greater security throughout the country and ensure even better emergency preparedness than what is today. Because we believe that the citizens of Denmark are entitled to do so, and we are also putting money into the health reform that we are putting forward. Unfortunately, I do not see that any of the Social Democrats are involved in this, but I hope that the Social Democratic Party will take part in negotiations on this, so that we can jointly strengthen the emergency coverage of the whole country, Lemvig, Løgstør, Lyngby, where you now live as a citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135154	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135155	Thank you, President. I would say that otherwise I think the Minister has had plenty of time to read the social democratic health issue and also our proposals in the field of emergency. We have waited a long time for a government proposal which has not been completed. They say that hurry is a load, but the opposite may also be the case. Sir. Søren Gade states here that it is politicians who go in and feel with the stomach and with the heart and listen to what is needed to create real security and security where people live. Sir. Søren Gade says that what he believes and thinks is that if it becomes the lawyers and economists, then what is the citizen's consideration and thought and desire and needs is not equally weighted. Let me say that in this debate that has come after the government has presented its proposals for health reform, a great many have expressed their thoughts and opinions. The municipal researcher Roger Buch also did this in Berlingske on 17 January, where he makes some parallels to what has happened since the 2007 municipal reform, which also focused on the citizen and the patient. But what happened? It is precisely what we feared from the Socialist side that exactly happened and that Mr. Søren Gade fears, and as he expresses very clearly here, and as many other left-wing politicians in the region and in the Parliament also state. And that is that this is going to be a major centralisation, where decisions are drifting away from the citizens, that is, from the people who experience a need in everyday life, where they can then go to a local election and where a regional council takes stock of the overall operation of a region. We have seen it before from the Left Party and from the bourgeois parties: it is said that you want proximity reform. The latter became one major centralisation reform. Mr. Søren Gade and the Social Democratic Party think so too is the result of the reform that the Left has put forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135410	This reform is going to create more closeness in our healthcare system. And that is what is needed, because there are a great many patients who today drive unnecessarily far into a hospital in order to have a relatively simple check-up or consultation, and we must have that moved out into the vicinity. That is why we are putting a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. up to investing in modern health houses in the municipalities and in modern general practices, so that we get rid of the medical coverage challenges. And we're gonna invest in more ambulances, so we're gonna create security all over the country. I think it is reasonable that we should also say at national level that, in future, there should not be large geographical differences. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If the questioner's own region is concerned, only just a little more than nine out of ten ambulances arrive within 15 minutes. If we take the Central Jutland Region, it's 96 percent. Why do there have to be major geographical differences? Why should there be places in Denmark where there is not the same security? The government believes that we have taken responsibility, as well as the Danish People's Party, for bringing in a fourth emergency medical helicopter, so that we can have better emergency coverage of the northern part of Denmark. We also set aside funds to invest in 10-15 additional emergency cars, medical ambulances, to ensure that security, because we believe that is what is needed. In fact, we think that in some areas there has been too great a difference between the management of this area by the regions. That is why it is basically about providing a national binding framework for emergency preparedness so that the citizens of Lemvig, Løgstør or Lyngby have the same offer when they become acutely ill or need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135544	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135546	What is clear now, after a week's debate on the government's proposals for a health reform, is that there are a great many of the health minister's party colleagues who fully agree with the social democracy that this is a matter of moving a democratic decision-making process away from citizens, away from where you live and to something more central. After all, the Minister of Health could have read the Social Democratic Health proposal and studied our sketch for near hospitals, which is just about the vicinity and bringing treatments from the hospitals to the near. So here we can easily reconcile something. But we cannot unite in centralising and removing democracy and creating more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135630	This is a huge reform of proximity, and it is only positive if the Socialists will now actively enter into the concrete content and discuss how we can move more treatments out, how we can ensure a more binding framework for cooperation between the municipality, the hospital and our own doctor, so that the patients we are experiencing today really fall into this Bermuda triangle, which is between the three parties, will have a higher quality of treatment. I hope, then, that the Socialists will help to set national binding targets as to what the quality of health care should be. I mean, right now, it's pretty decentralized. We believe that the Danish Health Authority should have the opportunity to make binding health targets, so that it is not the postal number that determines which offers you receive, such as. apoplexipatient. I can hear that the Socialists do not want to, and I think that is a pity. This also applies to the emergency area, where we believe that we must strengthen the emergency area and also set national standards so that we have the same security throughout the country and that we must dare to invest in more emergency medical vehicles and ambulances, so that we also cover some of the black holes and the differences that the regions have created in this area today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135732	Thank you very much, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, and we welcome Mrs Astrid Krag as our co-author. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135737	I have to say that I believe that the best word for what the Minister does in relation to his fellow party members is arrogance. In other words, the anxiety over the people's rule is poured down the board; they have not understood a prayer. Then we get a furrow: we don't want anything, we never take responsibility. In any case, that is something that can be seriously called into question. We have our own health issue here from October. You can think about who has historically built up our health care system. We can take a small historical battle on • who has made us have the model we have in Denmark today with free and equal access, that is, what historical threads it has and what party and what movement has carried it through. But that is not what we are discussing here. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether she really does not share the amazement of the party colleagues and others who are left thinking: how can it be that, with surgical precision, precisely the part of the regions that are elected and then retains the administration? Then we get more links, we get more appointed boards that cannot be held accountable by the voters. We will have a more bureaucratic and opaque system, but just the small corner, which was elected, has been cut off with surgical precision. I think it was Jakob Kjellberg who called it a quarter abolition of the regions, because it is only the elected representatives that are being taken away. Does not the Minister somewhere in his left-wing politician body have a tiny understanding of those party colleagues who find it difficult to see that this is linked to the party that the Left has always been?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123135907	We push more tasks into the near health care system. We ensure that with the 21 health communities, decisions are brought closer to those that have now gone too far. We will ensure a framework in which our municipal politicians will have to become more involved in the health service. We also ensure some national quality standards because we do not think it should be up to free interpretation, for example. offers an apoplexipatient or an elderly medical patient to be placed in an emergency position. I understand that the Socialists disagree with that. I just have to say that I think it is important that we improve the quality of our health services and, above all, the quality of our health services, where there is a great need for a quality boost. Then we lift something up at national level, and I can then understand from the Socialists that they think it is undemocratic and what else is linked to us, for example. In relation to the national emergency medical helicopter, the decision has been taken in here, allocated the funds from it and laid down some national standards for example. The emergency medical helicopter today. I do not think that is undemocratic. Nor do I think it is undemocratic when we are now proposing that there should be a national superstructure in the emergency area, so that we ensure that there are not so many differences as to how quickly the ambulance arrives everywhere in Denmark, and that we also have the proximity fund and the 6 billion. kr. not only allocates money to new health houses and modern general practices, but also to 10-15 extra emergency medical cars, emergency preparedness and ambulances out there that can help ensure security throughout Denmark. In fact, it is about ensuring even better health care than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140036	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140037	I think we need to have a separate discussion on how the cave mayors should maneuver in these local health communities, where everything has to be in agreement, and that means that the individual has a right of veto, and you have your own town council as a hinterland. I mean, I just have a very hard time seeing how it is going to work in the real world. We will not be able to get around here exhaustively, so we will have to meet about that in another context. I would just like to say to the Minister: what the Minister's party colleagues are trying to shout about is that quality is also closeness and security, including the kind of proximity and security that makes no sense in a spreadsheet that doesn't make sense in a boardroom, but which makes very good sense when you have a local hinterland to which you are going home to, some voters you have to look into the eyes, a local area you represent and otherwise live in. Surely they should not, the new boards of directors, live in the areas they represent? This is a huge step backwards for local security, and I can so and I am rather concerned that the Minister is just dismissing it in the way she has done here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140135	The health reform we have presented will strengthen the close health care system; strengthen general practice so that we have a doctor close to where we live; strengthen the binding cooperation that must be between the municipality, hospital and own doctor, so that as a patient you also feel that there is security when you are printed out that the right hand knows what the left hand is doing. Then, in some areas, we take emergency preparedness, which this issue is about, and say that there must be some national, overall similarities in relation to the way we organise it in Denmark. Because we do not think it is fair to do so, for example. in the North Jutland Region, only about nine out of ten ambulances arrive within 15 minutes, while in the Central Jutland Region it is 96 percent. In fact, we believe that, as elected politicians, we must answer to the people at national level and ensure a level playing field in the emergency response we have, just as we have done with the national emergency medical helicopter. It is not undemocratic; it is about ensuring the security of all citizens in Denmark; it is about putting the whole country on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140233	Thank you, and we shall return to the main questioner, Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140237	Thank you. Sir. Søren Gade and the Social Democratic Party think it is democratic to listen to citizens and give citizens a voice. This is done by having locally elected politicians. In his last reply, the Minister spoke to me about the Bermuda Triangle between the municipality, the region and the general practitioner. Okay, maybe this is where we need to get it, because some people have told us that what the government's up to is such a magic trick. That it's really remote, that it's just a desk exercise. Perhaps that is exactly what you want, namely with a wand to strike down and remove the elected members of the regional council and then piste! Why hasn't the government had 31⁄2 years to solve these problems? We have waited and waited for a debate on the close and coherent health care system. Now it comes, and then one will think with a magical spell that as long as the elected members of the regional council are removed, the problems are solved. No, what's the challenge here is that you have a government with sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in the lead, who along with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has made an appointment and the two know best. Then you don't have to ask others or evaluate and discuss things. There it is, and democracy is going to suffer. It's just a centralization exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140403	Then it's the minister for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140404	In other words, those I hear are so negative are social democracy, which, like pr. The definition has decided that when it comes to taking the great responsibility for our health care, one would rather criticise than take responsibility. I think that's too bad for the patients, too bad for the employees. We have some very good discussions with the professional organisations and with patients. I think that in a large number of areas they have praised the initiatives that lie in the reform of health, and that is why I hope that the Social Democrats will share in taking responsibility. And then I have to say: in my universe it is not undemocratic that we say that there has to be an emergency response that creates equal security throughout the country. Because we do not think it is fair that in the region of the questioner only about nine out of ten ambulances arrive within 15 minutes, whereas in the region of Central Jutland it has been ensured that it is 96 per cent. of the emergency response that arrives within 15 minutes. Why does there have to be the big geographical difference? We do not think that is fair. In other words, we do not think that it is about a lack of democracy when we say that in emergency preparedness there must be equal security throughout the country, and that we also allocate resources to 10-15 additional ambulances and emergency cars so that we can strengthen security throughout Denmark. It's just about securing patients all over the country. And I hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in this, because it is therefore a health service for patients and not for so many others. It is the patients that we need to put first in our health services.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140526	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Thank you to the questioner. Then we move on to a question to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and that is Mr. Magnus Heunicke, who then returns to the podium who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140538	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140540	Thank you, President. Here is the question to the Minister for Transport: can the Minister guarantee that further bus services in rural areas will not be closed if the task is transferred from the regions to the municipalities as proposed by the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140603	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140605	Now it is fortunate that the questioner himself has been Minister for Transport and is therefore fully aware that local bus routes are both paid and ordered by the municipalities and today by the regions. That means that both today, when I am Minister, and when Mr. Magnus Heunicke was a minister, the municipalities would be able to decide that they would abolish a bus route because they did not want to pay for it. So a Transport Minister can never guarantee that will not happen. Mr. Magnus Heunicke did not guarantee, and therefore there was also, while Mr. Magnus Heunicke was a minister, sometimes closed bus routes, because the municipalities did not think it was a bus route that should be maintained. So the answer to the question gives a little bit of itself. The answer, of course, is that, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke asks me to guarantee, no transport minister can guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140657	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140659	Thank you for that answer. This is a very good basis for our discussion this afternoon. Because when I ask the question, it is because it is part of the proposed structural reform, the reform that the government has played out with. It is, of course, the case today that regional bus services crossing municipal borders are planned and financed by our regions, as are local trains. Approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. There is the government's proposal that the money should somehow be distributed in the municipalities, which then have to find out. If you look at the reactions of not only commuters, the Rural Council and mayors, but also from traffic experts, you can see that there is a certain nervousness about what this will have with consequences. Because can we be absolutely sure that this task will be carried out in a reassuring manner? We know that the current minister is also aware that half of all Danes cross a municipal border on their way to and from work or to and from school. This is not something we think about in everyday life, but we do, and then it is important that the system is there, and it also applies to public transport, that it should be there to carry it out. And it is logical that, when it is within a municipality, it makes good sense that it is the municipality itself that is responsible for it. But when you cross municipal boundaries, how can we ensure that someone has that responsibility? That is the theme of my question. In concrete terms, I would like to ask the question because I have not been able to find the answer to it, but it may be that the Minister can tell us about it: how are the 1.5 billion? kr., which is in the proposal here and which is being used now, distributed out in our municipalities? Is it pr. mileage? Is it pr. citizen? Is it under the DUT scheme? Or how are we to distribute the money that is currently being spent in the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140859	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123140902	Although the government is proposing the closure of the regions, the government is not proposing the closure of regional transport companies. They will only be joint municipal companies, so that the municipalities located in the region which will then be a geographical area and not an institutional area, but therefore a geographical area, which is a region, also has a regional transport company, where the municipalities sit on the board. And the money that the regions are getting today will be given to the municipalities, and then, of course, the board of the regional transport company will decide which regional bus routes are to be maintained. And the municipalities will have the same money as the regions had in the past, so they will be able to use that money to pay for regional bus services. So there won't be less money out there, there'll be the same money out there. It will only be the municipalities that do so, in other words ordering and financing, instead of the regions that will no longer exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141001	I am asking a little openly, because this is the first time that we have the Minister speaking in this way. We have not been able to hold consultations yet, and we have only read and seen press meetings and other things. So is it to be understood that the money that, according to the government proposal, is going from our regions to the municipalities is then earmarked to be spent only on bus routes? Or is it the case that if some town councils sit and say that they do not want to pay money for a bus route from their municipality to a neighbouring municipality because they would rather spend it on another good purpose within the municipality, will that be possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141033	The money hasn't been earmarked today. The money going to the regions today is not earmarked. It is not the case that the regions are not allowed to spend them on anything else if they want to. Nor is it the case that the money going to the municipalities to cover their transport obligations is earmarked so that the municipalities are not allowed to spend it on anything other than that. So we are moving from a situation where the money is not earmarked today to a new situation where the money is not earmarked either. That money will then just be out with the municipalities, instead of being with the regions. And I have great faith in the municipalities. I think that we have good people out there, and I think that municipal democracy actually works better than regional democracy. There are more people who know their municipal councillor than there are people who know their member of the Regional Council. So that is why it is a good democracy that takes over and maybe even a better democracy than that which it takes over from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141123	Unfortunately, however, we can see that, in the wake of the last structural reform, one in seven bus routes outside the major cities, that is, in our rural areas, is actually shut down. And you gasp for the weather in many local areas, where it's about two to three elements. One is school, the other is job, and the last is infrastructure and, above all, public transport to the elderly and children's families and young people in education. That is why it is important that we ensure that they do not fall between two chairs here. So who is it that has the overall responsibility to tie a region of several municipalities together, where you cross these municipal boundaries?
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141202	Then it's the minister, the last time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141205	Many of the closures of local bus routes have good reasons. Let me take the example of North Jutland, where it was found that many empty buses used to drive around in the past, and it is both a waste of money and a waste of environmental resources that they spend so much diesel driving around with a large bus where there are few people. Therefore, in North Jutland, a scheme has been established to drive small cars and pick up passengers where they once live and take them to the nearest train station or bus stop. Now, that is a wise policy, and it is therefore a policy that follows on from the fact that some bus routes have been closed down. The service for citizens is not worse, it may even be better, and it is also cheaper, and it is also better for the environment. So that's the explanation in some places. However, I have great faith in local democracy, and I have even greater faith in municipal democracy than in regional democracy. I believe that everyone who comes with us also in the local newspapers etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141315	With that, we thank both the questioner and the Minister. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190123141322	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 24 January 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
