ParlaMint-DK_20191211100003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211100009	The debate is open and I would like to see the Minister present. We'll just breathe for a second until the Minister is here. She's here now. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 12 December 2019. First of all, the rapporteur of the questioners has the floor for a explanatory statement, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211100056	Thank you. The Danish People's Party took up the discussion about digitalisation in teaching in an issue in October 2018, when we could see that over many years we had spent a great deal of resources on digitalisation, without there being a clear knowledge of what we were really doing. There had been a blind belief in many places that digitisation was only a good thing. No one really dared to question it. When I dared to ask a school board what we thought we were getting out of using digital learning tools, I was reproached for wanting to stop development. It was a given thing that children were just supposed to be digital, and there was no discussion at all. By the way, the books had already been abolished and had no money to restore them. So finish that discussion. We took the debate in Parliament here in November 2018 with motion for a resolution 15: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a national strategy for digitalisation in the education system. With the resolution, the Danish People's Party wanted to ensure that a study of the digital effort in the education system was initiated and that a national strategy for digitalisation was developed on this basis. The Education Committee gave an agreement on a report on the proposal. The Committee called on the Commission to submit a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances. to that the Ministry of Education called the parties of the Danish Parliament for discussions on the implementation of the future national strategy for digitalisation in teaching. Such a national strategy should address how digitalisation contributes to children and young people's learning and how teachers will be better able to critically assess digital teaching resources. That discussion led to the plan called "Digitalization with care and vision" • Towards a new digitalisation strategy for the education area and which the previous government came along in March of this year. Now we are faced with a new government, a new minister, and that is why we think it is quite obvious to ask in here, as we do in the question: Will the government, based on the previous government's plan, •Digitization with care and vision • Towards a new digitalisation strategy for the education area • explain what status is on the plan and how the government plans to move forward towards a digitalisation strategy so that in the future we do things just as blindly as we have been doing in the last 30 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211100325	Thank you to the questioners for that. Then the trip to the Minister for Children and Education has come for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211100335	Thank you for the introduction. And thank you to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party for having called this very important question that we are going to have here today. It is, of course, a precise description that over the last few decades things have been going really fast and that in reality it was from the beginning of the 00s to be an area where we would very much like to push for something to happen and to see that perhaps in the last 10 years it has gone so fast that it may also have gone quite fast, and that is actually where I think we are now. So with regard to the picture that is being drawn up up here, I can actually see that this is how it happened. There is no doubt that in recent years digitalisation has become a great deal of education, and those of us with children who go to school experience how digitalization has taken over communication at home, but also the activities in the classroom. Aula is the most recent shot on the tribe, and it is also in relation to the parents who have been introduced to the vast majority of primary schools, and both teachers, pupils and parents have had to relate to the transition to a new system, and every time new systems come in, a great deal of effort is spent on making it work. At the same time, the learning platforms are part of the reality of the municipalities and schools and have been so for a few years. And when it was demanded that by the end of 2017 all municipalities should have purchased and widely used the learning platforms for all schools, it was because they saw the learning platforms as an opportunity to support good teaching. They should support the planning and implementation of teaching and provide the opportunity to systematically evaluate the learner's learning. Similarly, digital learning tools were seen as an opportunity to contribute to varied teaching. All these are, of course, good intentions, but now we are in a situation where the digitalisation of education also poses quite serious challenges. Digitisation not only opens up new opportunities and facilitates workflows for teachers; digitalisation also controls the way to work and may, unfortunately, end up in too many situations to standardise the practice of teachers and the way they are taught. In some schools you experience a new word, which means that all teaching is centered on an online portal provided by a private supplier, and that teaching will of course be uniform, boring and without spirit, and the latter is really the essence of our school. For me, it is crucial that books remain an important part of primary school education, and I would like to return to that point. In other schools there are extensive municipal requirements for the use of learning platforms by schools, including: with a focus on year planning and learning goals based on common goals, and although we have made a lot of the goals voluntary to live up to, in some places you will experience in everyday life that everything is structured on the basis of digital platforms, and therefore you will still have to follow them. Of course, this is not the reality of all municipalities and schools throughout the country, but it is in very many schools and in a number of municipalities, and that is simply not fair, neither to teachers nor to pupils. In recent years, the introduction of digitalisation has simply contributed to the educationalisation of teachers, and on some of the school learning platforms and in the digital learning tools it has become inappropriately governing the teacher's organisation of teaching, and I think this is very clear. Now I have been around talking to teachers in the teaching circles throughout the country, and it is very clear, when discussing these things, that teachers see it as no longer having the same degree of freedom in teaching. So digitization is not the problem in itself. The problem arises when digitization ends up being what dictates what and how the teacher should approach the core task, namely to ensure good teaching for all pupils, with the focus on the best learning and thriving of all pupils. So, of course, digitization must naturally be included in the teaching, where it makes sense, but it must not define the teaching it is quite crucial. Before I go on to explain the part of the question that concerns the work of the previous government in producing a digitisation strategy for the teaching area, I would like to start by pointing out that the ability and desire of Danish school pupils to read have not improved significantly, even if it has not cut back on initiatives, and this is an area that the government is looking at very seriously. The results of the recent national tests in 2019 show that there is a decrease of 1-3 percentage points in the proportion of pupils achieving good results in reading compared to last school year, and the new PISA figures, which have also just arrived, show that the results in reading for 15-year-olds have remained unchanged from 2015 to 2018. In addition, one in six leaves school without sufficient reading skills. We know that reading skills and reading desire are linked, and there are Danish students low, just as they read less in leisure time, and this is, in my opinion, a very worrying trend. What is the reason for this? Can this only be explained by the fact that children read more on the screen than they did in the past? The evaluation of efforts for IT in the primary school concludes that there are a number of positive effects experienced, including: of iPads and computers when it comes to teaching differentiation and motivation, and other studies show that Danish teachers can see a number of positive aspects of using IT in teaching, including that it supports students at the level they are on and gives them an interest in learning. So you can say that the challenge of reading is actually quite complex. There is no clear evidence of whether using digital books and teaching materials instead of physical books has a negative or positive impact on students' reading skills. On the contrary, there are various factors that may have an impact on digital reading. It can have meaning, which type of text you read and which media you read on. In fact, summa summarum is, of course, that it must not be digitization that dictates what is then used. Digitisation is a tool, and in this way I really think you should see it a bit like the pen I am holding in my hand. It may be quite crucial for writing, but it should not be the one who decides what kind of words are written; it should preferably come from up here. So I think the most important thing in reality is to take account of the fact that research shows that digital reading should not replace physical books or texts when it comes to longer texts, for example. novels, and that means that we need to have such a nuanced look that it can be used differently in different contexts, and studies indicate that it is important that there is a balance between the use of digital learning tools and physical books, including the overall amount of time spent on digital. It should be neither too much nor too little. The balance is therefore important to create variety and motivation in teaching, and the digital learning tools and resources provide the best benefit in teaching when combined with books and text on paper, and it is my experience that there is not that balance in all schools. According to the National School Act, the school board is required to approve teaching aids which teachers are required to use in teaching. However, in some places it has become a definite pseudo-process because a municipal administration has taken a decision on the choice of publishers in advance, which means that the consequence of making a choice other than that submitted to one is so great that it is more or less a pseudo-election because you cannot choose anything else. Of course, from the point of view of the administration, there can be good reasons for this, for example. costs and economies of scale in key procurement, but this means that there has been a tendency towards increased centralisation of the procurement of digital learning funds, where municipalities allow the administration to purchase almost all or part of the digital learning funds, and that in some places it is only from a few or a few publishers. It is a problem because the teachers then become subject to a decision taken by some other than those who are in the classroom on a daily basis, and it simply is not working. Because then we'll miss the whole concrete assessment of what kind of a room we're dealing with and what kind of a group of students we're dealing with. In fact, the problem is not very simple, and which way is it right to go? First of all, I think it can be said that digitalisation must not be a management tool. I think that one of the first things we need to take down as parties in the Folketing is that digitalisation must not become a steering tool. That is why we in the government also consider it crucial that teachers can use the digital opportunities when it makes sense to them and it can support the teaching they have, in other words that digitalisation alone is seen as a tool that makes sense in the classroom. Teachers must have professional freedom and scope to organise the teaching, and therefore they must also be able to choose teaching aids that really support the teaching. This means, of course, when there is this decision that has suddenly been put in, or when there may be years of waiting to get certain teaching materials, because they now exist only in a few centrally built stocks, that we are then out in pseudo-decisions. Because you can't wait two years to get a particular teaching material if you actually had to use it in a month or in six months' time. It does not work, and that means that here, when I look at it, there is too much of what looks like pseudo-processes about the choice of teaching materials. Schools are different and there are different needs in schools and there are different needs in classrooms, and there is no one model for teaching, and there is no one model for teaching that suits all schools and classrooms, and unfortunately digitalisation may seem too much right now to make it look as if that is the case. For this reason, we would very much like to enter into a dialogue with suppliers and with teachers and with schools and with municipalities on the digital platforms and the digital learning tools, and in the work we will also look at the role of teaching and teaching centres in relation to the balance between digital medicines and physical books and texts. It is important that we identify the teachers' digital everyday lives so that we can ensure that teachers have the best possible conditions to create a varied and motivating teaching and that the students learn what they need to do. The dialogue and the cover-up must, of course, also contribute to a work to ensure that digitalisation is used in such a way that it makes sense for pupils, teachers and schools, and when I say of course, it is because it should actually be a nobrainer, and that is not quite so. At the same time, we in the government focus on the digital education of both students and teachers. The Technological Appreciation Programme is one step in that discussion, but I would also like to point out that we need to focus our attention on the social media and children and young people here. There should of course be no doubt that it is part of the school reality that you are now going home and right into the children's room because of the social media, which means that what is going on in school is also happening at home in your children's room. So, just like when we talk about bullying, as we have done here in the Folketing in the last week, it is true that social media are important, but of course they are also important in the whole of the education that you as a child should have with you in an adult life later on. The previous government started working on a digitisation strategy for education and, as you can learn from what I am saying here today, I believe that the digitalisation agenda is important, but I think that we should be careful to make strategies for the sake of the strategies. I'm not the world champion of all this stuff about making those both strategies and action plans. It's just words I'm hitting on, even before we get started. And that means that I'd much rather have us take a position on the things in the conciliation circle that we might think are important. We have had a discussion in the past on the provisions relating to common objectives. We had them in the last session and I think we could take a trip over again, i.e. whether we have landed those things quite right. We have among other things. in the conciliation circle had a discussion that one should have the same non-para graph as one has in the day-to-day field, so that one simply says that one should not make the common objectives compulsory for teachers so that when they stand out there they can only carry out portal teaching. I think that is worth a discussion. So I believe that there is a political lead, and I believe that we need to have a dialogue with the parties to hear how we can get closer to some solutions where we do not do what we did in the 00s, where there was no digitisation, or, as in the 10s, where things might have gone quite quickly and we forgot that the other had a value too, but that we are, like, taking the best of both worlds and saying that there must actually be a balance, so that we use the motivating parts of it with digital teaching, and so that we get the weed out where it becomes dictating what to teach. Instead of action plans and strategies and these things that I very often experience become paper tigers, I would rather we have a dialogue, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for pushing this question forward too. I think that is the right way to proceed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101720	You're welcome. Then we move on to a short question-making round where there is one brief remark from each of the rapporteurs who would like it. The first is sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101731	I fully agree that we should not make strategies for words or for the sake of strategy. We have to do it because we want something to happen. If the Minister now takes it upon himself to have digital learning tools at his disposal and publishers up and tells us that we need to enter into a dialogue, then I am in complete agreement as well. But if we are to continue: In the old days, if a teacher developed a new way of teaching, he wrote a book, and then it was printed, and so he could have a lot to choose from. The challenge with the digital is that it is really expensive to develop. If we are to develop in Denmark, and if Danish publishers are to have the opportunity to do so, I believe that we need to have a strategy on how to make it happen. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101811	I very much agree with that, and one of the things I have repeated so much that my officials must already be getting all blue in their heads is that one of the most important roles of a Ministry of Education is to ensure that there is a constant undergrowth of teaching materials available to teachers who teach at our respective educational establishments, including in primary school. I believe that this is absolutely crucial, and that is why I am very concerned about the fact that it seems that right now a few publishers are putting themselves on the whole educational materials industry and that this is what becomes the realistic bid for management to go in and address. We simply have to have a discussion with each other about this. It is not, of course, because it is necessarily a criticism of the specific publishers. They're doing what they're put in the world for. I think we should just bear in mind that we politicians are put in the world to ensure that proper and diverse educational materials are actually available in our society. That is why we may need to get a grip on the trend again. It may have been a little too much released in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101905	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211101906	Thank you for a very good speech, which I share on many stretches. I think, in particular, that one of the things that was exciting was what the Minister said here with the pseudo-election, in other words, where the administration is in and takes decisions, which means that there is, in a sense, no freedom to choose the teaching materials appropriate to the individual student group in the class. One can of course be concerned about whether this development will also continue, so that a municipal council chooses an excessive focus on, for example, digital learning platforms or teaching tools. I noticed that the Minister said that she wanted to enter into a dialogue with relevant parties, and I think that is very good. I just want to know whether the Minister also sees an opportunity to involve the conciliation circle, involve the rapporteurs in those discussions. In fact, I believe that we share the same ambition on a long stretch, namely that we come in and ensure that there is a freedom to choose the teaching materials that are considered relevant in the individual class.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102011	Great pleasure, and not least because I actually think it is important that this debate is seriously anchored in this House, understood in the sense that we all have a clear sense of what is going on on this agenda, because it is also moving really quickly. Over the last few decades, when I have been a member of the Folketing most of the time, things have simply moved from being all over one ditch to smoking all the way to the other ditch, and now we are trying to get things back a little bit. It is just to say that development is rushing so quickly that there is an independent reason why we are all very much aware of it. Then I would say in relation to the pseudo-election that I am really concerned about that, simply because I think it is a core of the freedom that must be in a democracy. So I also think that we are in the middle of some of what is really the innermost difference between totalitarian regimes, where you decide what is being taught and so democratic regimes where you do not. It is not, of course, because there can be no curriculum, and there may be such considerations. But come on, I think we're getting a long way over deciding something, and it's not like some people have wanted it out of bad will. After all, no one pays tribute to a totalitarian system. However, the choices made will dictate something that will have the same consequence for the teacher who has to stand and teach. That makes all my alarm bells jam, and I believe that we in the Danish Parliament should tackle this very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102131	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102132	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister for a very nice speech which I can easily follow on a long stretch. Some of this uncertainty, which is also on the part of teachers and educators, when you look into this, can be about both uncertainty, but perhaps ignorance, and it may call for some upskilling. Can the Minister reveal what the government is discussing in relation to bringing some more education into teacher and educator training in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102206	I shall leave that to my colleague Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen. It is her resort and I have been told that it is probably best that we stick to our respective areas of responsibility as ministers. We usually have a wider debate on that, so it is not a lack of will to say anything about it, but I think we should leave that to her. However, I would just like to add that I heard a teacher say that, and you have to take that for what it is; it's just to say why the alarm bells are also buzzing that they had discussed at their school if you could hit that 15%. wasn't portal training. Try to take it in once at 15%. is not a portal instruction. Wow! Now we've spent, I don't know how long trying to walk away from boarding as the right thing. If the board is then just replaced by a portal, where what is even going on is that some people other than the teacher have inserted some learning goals in advance, which is what you follow blindly, so with texts that have been pre-selected it is completely, so it shudders in me. Then it's just before I start saying that I'd rather go back to boarding. For there was free spirit, and there you could decide for yourself what you wrote on the board. So it is just to say: I think we have come very far in the wrong direction. Hopefully this is the case in an incredibly few schools in
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102322	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102324	Thank you. It is a good debate, a good question and exciting topics. I also have another angle that I'm wondering about. I've talked to students who say that sometimes in their class they experience half the students playing Counter-Strike on their iPads. It's hard for the teachers to see, because they turn their faces the other way. So we have also opened up an opportunity for endless entertainment directly into the classroom, such an electronic highway for all the major gaming providers. Has the Minister thought about what it might do with teaching and what consequences it might have?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102402	Yes, because I have children at exactly that age, so I can promise the rapporteur that I have thought a great deal about that. I would say that the times when you put children to have, for example. project weeks, that is to say children, and that means that you give them a large share of the responsibility for their own learning, while at the same time there is full access to screens and no adult around, then there will be a lot of exciting games out there. And if you sometimes wonder why children have an experience of senselessness and therefore miserable, I think that a large part of the answer lies right there, that is, because we other people would think it was meaningless. Well, it's just to say that this is what we plant directly into a classroom. I think we have gone too far in our belief in how much children can themselves be responsible for their own learning. I think we should get it back. And digitalization has become a negative player in that direction, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102507	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102509	Thank you. Like the previous speakers, I would like to sign a very, very good speech. It has a dimension that I would like to draw forward here. After all, I have been a teacher for 22 years in primary school, and I think it was a good reform that we adopted when we read it on paper. But when it came to implementing it, everything went wrong. Not least, and this is what the Minister is bringing forward here, which I would like to emphasise by repeating that the authorities around the municipalities simply decided what material was to be bought for the school and how it was to be used. It is, of course, an abuse of the teaching profession, which is very difficult to imagine if you have not been out talking to them. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister has been on a tour to the circles and heard how the teachers experienced this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102616	I very much agree with what is being said here, and I would like to say that I would add that I also believe that, in the end, the children suffer very badly simply because the freedom to plan their education is intended to inspire and motivate pupils to learn as much as possible while they are in school. This is perhaps one of the teachers' most important tools, which we have then taken out of the toolbox for a great many. It's just not gonna work. So the planned courses you have from one year cannot be transferred to the next year. It's just to say that teachers are spending an incredible amount of effort on something that I think is an organized waste of time. So I think we need to get in and get a good hold of ourselves, and then I think we need to have a discussion. I would like to take the initiative of raising this issue with the KL, but I also believe that we will have to discuss with each other again and do the same thing that Mrs Mai Mercado did as Minister for Social Affairs as regards the day institutions, namely to discuss whether to make a non-paragraph in relation to what can be imposed on a school teacher.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102735	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102736	Digitisation forces society to make decisions that politicians would never take. If, 25 years ago, a resolution had been tabled that all people should always wear a device that always said where they were, then it would be voted down by 179°0 in the Folketing. But we do. So it has been imposed without a political decision. And as Mrs Marianne Jelved's question also suggested, digitalisation also enforces a large number of other decisions that go away from this room and away from similar premises in other countries. What ideas does the Minister have about getting the decision-making power back to, for example? our own parliament in relation to digitalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102824	In fact, I would like to say that this has also been one of the points on which I am genuinely pleased with our broad circles of conciliation. That is also one of the reasons why I am responding in the way I do to Mrs Mai Mercado's question about whether I want to anchor things here, so that we get the rapporteur's circle across, because of course the answer is yes. And in terms of getting the decision-making power back politically, I think that what we have been exposed to in the field of digitalisation is simply that we have not been able to understand it from in here. So I'm actually optimistic about whether it's possible to rewind some of those things. As long as we're willing to bow to each other. And if the Liberal Alliance and the Social Democratic Party can agree on what is to be done in relation to the relationship between publishers on the one hand, who provide educational materials and then political decisions on the other, then we can go a very long way. So if the Liberal Alliance also sees this as a problem, then I think we have a motorway to solve the problems together.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211102939	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the negotiations, and then the general rules apply to short remarks, i.e. two per person. person, one in 1 minute and one in 1⁄2 minute. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. And by the way, he comes from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103001	That is absolutely correct. According to the PISA 2018 study and its conclusion on reading, page 12 says: On the other hand, the results show that there is a negative correlation between the overall use of IT by students at school in the form of e.g. chat and internet browsing and their reading skills. This result should therefore be a reminder that there can actually be an obstacle to the academic benefit of the pupils if IT is not used with didactic thoughtfulness and professionally meaningfulness. In addition, there is also a negative correlation between the use of IT for school work outside teaching hours for Danish pupils, for example. homework and assignments and their reading skills. I think that is quite thought-provoking. So there is a negative correlation between what we do and what we want. That's not good. Over the past 30 years, there has been a massive effort to digitise the school system. There's been a lot of investment. The municipalities, for example, have... from 2012 to 2017 in the primary school area spent 2.5 billion. kr. on something that we don't know about works. Money has been spent on a lot of things. And compared to other countries, Denmark is actually one of the most digitised countries in the world. Digitisation has been a priority for many years by changing governments, educational institutions, municipalities, everywhere, and we have had the idea that it was necessary. One could be uncritical in favour of high-speed digital development, and if, as a society, we do not choose to join it, then we will be left behind and be backward and old-fashioned. Now there is now some criticism of the digitalisation. In 2012, the then S-SF-R government set up the Productivity Commission, which in November 2014 pointed out that IT is used in teaching but has no revolutionary significance. No, I'll say. In the same report it was pointed out that despite the effort with the massive Danish IT efforts in the education system, the Danish students' IT skills were below average. Well, that's a little thought-provoking. Now that we are looking at the other countries that we sometimes look at as some who are doing well in relation to PISA, namely Singapore, Finland, they do not have approximately the same degree of digitisation as we do. Then it has been thought that technology should promote learning and help to strengthen opportunities for weak learners and lift them. Is that what matters now? It doesn't look like it. If you take a class and give everyone a PC, it's good for the strongest and generally bad for the weakest. There is then an obvious exception. I fully understand that when it comes to dyslexia or other disabilities, yes, it can be a super, super tool to be able to be on an equal footing. But these are the specific areas where it makes sense. In March, when the previous government came up with its proposal, there were some small video clips that were shown to those who were there to experience it. And those video clips showed kids who told me why digitalization was good in teaching. The general feature of what they said was that it made it much easier. It made homework easier. This made it easier to solve the tasks. And I have to say, I'm left with a feeling that it should be easy. Is that what you learn from? I would say that my own experience from a time totally without digitalization was that where I learned the most was where it was difficult. It was where I worked with the drug, it was where I had to fight to understand that I really learned something. I didn't learn anything where I could look up somewhere and find the solution to the task I was supposed to deliver the next day. So it doesn't have to be easy. In fact, I find it worrying if that's what the students are experiencing. There is also today research that points out that more old-fashioned approaches, note technology... let's write with the pen that the minister brought up here before, or the pencil can actually do something. We had a hearing in here last week about digitalisation, and one of the things that was said was that learning is a combination. We all use our senses when we learn. That means that when we sit and try to learn in front of a screen, there is something we do not learn. Then things go away. Therefore, it is absolutely central to the Danish People's Party that we are taking this discussion and that we are saying, as I am fortunately also hearing several people say, that it is about using it wisely and sensibly as a tool where it makes sense. That is why we need much more knowledge. Now my time is running out, which is why I just want to end on behalf of all the parties present. This means that New Citizens are not in this decision, but that the rest of the parties of the Danish Parliament are reading the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it crucial that we always work for the best education in the school and well-being of pupils and teachers. It is essential that digitalisation at school is primarily aimed at supporting pupils' learning as an aid to teaching. Teachers must be dressed for the task so that they have the freedom to choose the learning tools that best suit the teaching. The Danish Parliament therefore notes that the objective and critical use of digital learning means should be the starting point for future work on digitalisation in the field of education. It is necessary for digital learning tools to be quality-proofed in terms of didactic, professional and educational conditions. The Danish Parliament notes that the government will enter into dialogue with the key parties in the field as well as uncover the teachers' digital everyday lives, so the work on digitalisation has professional gravity and makes sense for pupils, teachers and schools. This will be done on the basis of the previous government's plan •Digitization with care and vision. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103645	Thank you. It is part of the negotiations. But that is not the reality. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl of Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103700	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech, and thank you for raising this debate on an important subject. I would like to ask the rapporteur in relation to the issue raised by the Minister in his speech, namely that municipal supply contracts for teaching materials have practically deprived teachers and schools of the opportunity to choose for themselves what teaching materials they would like to use, both digitally and analoguely, in teaching. How do the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party view this challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103717	In fact, we see this as a very, very real problem. As in the past, there was a great deal of opportunity, as a teacher, to develop and to make some teaching material for yourself, which was easy to share. The big challenge is that if you are to make good digital learning means, it requires a great deal of development. This means that it is not something the individual teacher can do. That is also why I asked the Minister whether we should not have a strategy in this area, because I believe that we really need a strategy that says that we want to go somewhere else than where we are now. And to get there, you have to make a plan. Dialogue with publishers is very important, because I think they are doing what they can. It's a company that's gotta make some money. But we need to develop learning tools that are relevant in Denmark and that are good for the Danish schools, so that teachers also have something to choose from. We have to find some kind of model that makes you have that choice so that it is not up to the individual municipal council to say for the sake of the money that we will have to choose this one publisher. Then that's all you can use, all of you. We need to find a model that can be broader.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103830	I don't have anything else. Thank you. I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103834	I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103838	Thank you. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211103851	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that in the Social Democratic Party we share the concern of the Danish People's Party, which is the basis for this inquiry debate on how digital aids affect our children and our children's learning. That is why I would just like to thank you for addressing the important issue. In the Social Democratic Party we are working for strong primary schools which can provide all children and young people with the best conditions for doing well and getting an education. The digital age in which we find ourselves asks some basic questions about how we do it today • how we do it without our children becoming guinea pigs, but so that at the same time we seize all the new opportunities that digitalisation offers. In order to be able to engage digitally and use digital tools, it is also important to be able to cope in the future and to be able to cope with the labour market of the future. But does it necessarily require learning to read on an iPad? No, it does not necessarily do so, and that is the balance that it is our task to find. Our goal is for all children to be as skilled as possible and to thrive as they go to school so that they are able to seize all the opportunities that life offers them, regardless of their background or upbringing, and so that they can become participating and critical citizens. That is why it is not good enough for us to see that our children are getting worse at reading, and it is almost as worrying that fewer and fewer children think it is fun to read. Digitisation has become a permanent part of our everyday life, and this development has been extremely rapid, and this also applies, of course, to education. Much has become easier, including school education, because technology also offers opportunities to learn in new ways. Ideally, digitisation and digital learning tools can help to support development towards a more varied and inclusive teaching. For me, there is no doubt that there are plenty of opportunities in the technology, but there are certainly also very many pitfalls. It leads to increased disturbances, digital noise, lack of immersion and bad sleep habits, and we risk doing our children a huge disservice if we just place them in front of the screen and power the digital world without further thought or without the necessary knowledge of what it has to do with consequences. So we need digitalization wisely. Unfortunately, we see today that digital learning tools have in some places become the guiding force for teaching and that digitalisation has become an end in itself. Although the intentions in the field of education in relation to digitalisation have actually been good, it has never been the intention that digitalisation should become an end in itself. There must be a balance between digital and analogue, including at school. Digital learning tools must be used where they support the professional and where they support the educational purpose. Digital learning tools must always make sense for the learners' learning and this must be what we measure them on both when it comes to learning in using digital tools and engaging digitally, and when it comes to the inclusion of digital learning tools in ordinary teaching. Although we may not be able to take the screens solely to account for the challenges that our children face in reading it will never be the responsibility of the screens; it will always be the responsibility of the adults, that is. our responsibilities, our parents and our teachers, we also need to take seriously that there are now more studies showing that the screens do not necessarily benefit our children's learning or concentration and that they are not the way to better reading skills. It is important that we together in the Folketing learn more about that part, because I do not think that today we have all the answers to how we use digitalisation wisely and how we find the necessary balance. The journey towards becoming wiser must be made together with all the good forces outside Christiansborg, which also is passionate that our children and young people get the most out of going to school. After all, this is the work that the government is now going to address as the Minister explained. That is why I am actually just very pleased that we can stand together in as broad a consensus as we do today in the Folketing on a joint proposal for adoption, which finds the right balance and which gives a very good basis for the further work in the government as well as in the Folketing to get the digitalisation on its right shelf, namely where it supports the teaching and does not become an end in itself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104317	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104321	Thanks for a good speech. I would like to follow up on what the rapporteur actually asked me about. The rapporteur talks a lot about knowing what we are doing, ensuring that we have the digital learning tools to do and ensuring that it makes sense out there. It is, of course, important to me if we are to get there, that we have what I would call a strategy, and the rapporteur may call it something else if it is. Does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to ensure that there is more knowledge, so that we do not use digital learning tools that do not do what they have to do, and if we are to ensure that we have a wide range of learning tools, we actually have to target ourselves from in here to go out and push for it? Does the rapporteur not agree that we need to do something, that we may even have to find some means, or whatever it takes, and that we actually have to take the lead and have a clear direction for where we want to go and what we want to work and what we want to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104424	Thank you. For that, whether it is a strategy or an action plan or what kind of process we need, I think we must work it out together. I think the most important thing is that we now focus on it. In his speech, the Minister said that the government is now engaged in dialogue with all the actors involved and made a clear statement to involve all the parties of the Folketing in further work. Then we will have to work together to find out what sort of grip it takes. Is this another strategy we have to write, or is it something else we have to write? We're gonna have to figure that out together. But there is no doubt that we need to think very carefully. I think that for too many years we have allowed this to run out of control in our school, without necessarily politically controlling it. And I think that we need from here together to the municipalities and in the municipalities at the individual school to take back control of the digitalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104520	I am very much in agreement with that. But when we have to take control back, while I also hear that we have to give the freedom back to the teachers to be able to have a wider choice, there is a dilemma: we can call it an action plan or a strategy; I am really just interested in something happening and the governance we have to go back is not the governance of the municipalities, because the municipalities still have to be freed, but what kind of governance do we have to go back?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104555	After all, it is really about taking back control in such a way that we give back freedom. Today, it is governed by all sorts of other actors, including others. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. Once you have agreed to use the digital learning tools, there are, in fact, very few choices that can be made about which teaching materials you would like to use. I think it goes back to the question of what the role of the school teacher really is. And to me, the role of the teacher is also to organize the content of the subjects as part of the general education of the pupils. After all, it requires freedom to choose your own teaching materials. When we have allowed digitization to take place so quickly in schools, we have also challenged the teachers' freedom to choose teaching materials themselves and to organise the content of the subjects themselves, so that it suits the individual group of pupils, and so that it fits into the educational task that teachers have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104651	Thank you, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, and welcome to the next rapporteur, Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211104713	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party, which is raising the debate here, and thank you to the Minister for both a very good speech, but also some very good answers. DF's rapporteur mentioned before some videos that were on this website compared to the work that has previously been started here. In fact, there is also a video of some 9th classes that is being asked: should the Folketing have legislation on this? Then the 9-year-old girl answers as it is: What does the Folketing know about it? I think that's actually very funny. But at least that calls for it, and I agree with the minister in this room that we should of course have some conversations about it, but that we should probably also reach out in reality to hear what you have on your mind out there. The agenda here about digitisation is both relevant and present, both in relation to teachers and pupils and parents and, as such, also the voluntary leaders who walk around our clubs around the country. Most recently at a closed expert meeting, where we had three committees from the Folketing in here with six experts, we discussed their views on the digitalisation, the use of the new technology, the advantages and disadvantages, concerns and opportunities, and it was a really fine debate that we had. There is no doubt that investments in digitalisation and the introduction in, among other things, The primary school has been marked and perhaps has also been introduced with a haste, where human resources have not been well enough equipped to exploit the potential that lies throughout the digitalisation, and let alone understand the full potential of it, and therefore the effects of the use of the digital have also been very varied. Perhaps in the whole area it calls for political attention, as the Minister also says, and we are very pleased about that, and perhaps it also calls for work and dialogue and discussions following on from the work that took place in March of this year. The Left and I are also very concerned about this. I am actually also preoccupied with the whole e-sport and gaming, which has also gained ground in primary school, and I think that we will be taking part in our work when we have to get started. But no matter how many strategies and discussions and dialogues we have and we do, in this area we will be constantly lagging behind, but it calls for action, and it calls for teachers to have didactic and professional and pedagogical conditions that can help young people to exploit this potential, whether it is in relation to books, but also in relation to the digital media. Having said all this, it is not iPads or electronics or computers that make children bad readers. It is, of course, the use and, at times, the abuse, and here there are many arenas in which children and young people move, and where we as adults must help to give young people a culture and education that ensures that they exploit the potentials that also lie in digitalisation. Parents, teachers, educators and even trainers in the individual association have shares in the fact that we get a healthy culture and that we get some balance in this. The Left can well agree with the excellent proposal for adoption on which we all agree. I think that is very strong, and I look forward to continuing the dialogue and debates on the initiatives that the Minister mentioned earlier, and we simply need to discuss this further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105049	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105053	Thank you, and thank you for your speech and some broad input. There was one area on which I think I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments and the position of the Left. Because the discussion revolves a little bit around these digital learning tools, and how we can ensure that there is actually a supply, so you have something to choose from when you're out there in schools, and we get some kind of model for it. Therefore, I am a little interested in knowing what the Left's position is for us to go in and how we can ensure that this is developed and that it becomes available to the teachers in the municipality, so that at the same time we give it the freedom to choose wider out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105132	Thank you and thank you for the question. I think that is very relevant. After all, I sat with it as mayor and also had both frustrated leaders and teachers who would have some other choice than what we could offer ourselves as a municipality, in that we have constraints on what we can actually use our funds for in relation to SKI agreements and everything else. I would very much like to take part in this discussion, but also to ensure that the municipalities have more opportunities to choose more flexibly in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105227	Thank you once again to the Minister for a very good speech, which can form the basis for a continued debate in the circle of parties. The development of our society goes only one way, namely towards greater digitisation, and development interferes with and shapes all parts of our society and social life much more than we are aware of in our daily lives. In the workplace, a greater part of the workflow and products has become digital, and a large part of the public conversation and our democracy takes place on the Internet. Especially for young people, a large part of their social life takes place on digital platforms. We must be both positive and critical of technology and digitalisation, including at school. Digitalisation and technology can be the key to a green transition, future welfare service, higher productivity, less laborious work and much more. But digitalisation and technology also challenge us, both as individuals and as a society. We have large tech giants with their power concentrated around us. In addition to the problems of free competition, however, the biggest problem is the power they have over people and their preferences and world views, and it is almost unbearable if you first start thinking about it. Children need to be dressed to make themselves digital. Without technology understanding and digital education, our children will be at a disadvantage in a social development that goes only one way: towards more digitalisation. Many young people have poor welfare. Social media and digitalisation are not the reason alone, but contribute to a high level of stress among young people. Center for Youth Research, pointing that out. I actually have a good quote from Thea Enevoldsen, President of Danish School Students, whom I would like to give here. And I quote: You have downloaded an app without knowing about the algorithms behind; without knowing how the design cheats you to spend longer and longer on your phone, and most importantly; without having had a critical and reflective process about how and when to commit yourself on social media. And do you know what happens when you get in a car like this without a driver's license? You crash. I think that is very inspiring, and I would like to use that as a means of giving thought to what we are doing in the party of which I am a member, the Radical Left. Because we believe that the experiment of technology understanding as a subject has great potential, and we would like to tackle that, because we believe that we should actually create a profession. And I would like to give a Danish lesson, says the old Danish teacher and a mathematics class, says the mathematics teacher who from the start is used for the subject of technology understanding and digital education up through the school cycle. And then you can connect the other subjects as it becomes natural to integrate them into the subject, so that we get both a subject and parts of a subject that deals with technology and digitalisation. What we need to do, at least in relation to the proposal from the Radical Left, is to include three dimensions: digital user capacity, i.e.: secure and critical and constructive use of digital tools; digital creativity, i.e. the ability to produce digital content; and critical digital formation, i.e. awareness of digital tools and building and impact on us and our social life. This is not something we can do now, nor should it be rushed through. However, I think it is very important to consider and debate how we use the subjects we have in school, because we have many hours at school, and we could perhaps spend those hours in a different way than we do today, because the world actually requires us to do so. Digital education is understanding what happens when we have the technology and digitisation around us. And it is also important that you not only make it a subject, but also make it a part of the subjects and integrate it into the subjects that are relevant, so that the children gain greater insight and awareness in relation to what is happening around them, so that they can relate to it, both critically and constructively. Then they can also produce the content themselves, and they can be aware of the structure and impact of digital tools on us. In fact, this is what we ourselves lack as adults in our democracy, and we must at least make sure that our children are able to do so. So this is a perspective that I think we have to take in at some point, namely to see whether we spend the classes in primary school in the best possible way, in terms of how the world has changed. And it just goes faster and faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105706	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105709	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I fully agree that digital education and understanding of what digitalisation does both to us as people and to society as such is a really important element that we need to find a way to get into school. But that does not necessarily mean that things have to be on a screen at school. This does not mean that one should use screens in Danish or in mathematics if it is not what gives the best learning in Danish and in mathematics. That is why I would like to ask Mrs Marianne Jelved whether there is no agreement that we should separate it in the sense that there cannot be digital education in all subjects where it makes sense. There will be algorithms in mathematics that make very good sense to understand. But is it not at the heart of learning that we need the learning tools that provide the best learning?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105812	Yes, I fully agree with that. I fully agree that it is also the teacher who must decide which teaching methods are best suited to a given situation. But that doesn't mean that you shouldn't teach physics and that you shouldn't have the part of digital knowledge and technology understanding that is relevant in the physics profession. That is why I do not wish to cut myself off in advance from the fact that in certain situations a screen can be used in primary school. It would also be strange that we didn't have all types of texts in quotes at school. I think we should have that, and of course digital texts are also included here, if you can call them texts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105849	There is no doubt that, for example, we are dealing with the problem of unemployment. in mathematics will be able to show, demonstrate and try some things via digital aids which give a different understanding. And that is not at all what we are talking about, but we must be sure that the learning tools we are using actually also provide learning. Now that there is something that points to the fact that the things we use in school today actually work negatively, for example. In terms of becoming better readers, I hope we agree that we should choose something else. There must then be an opportunity to choose teaching aids which actually give the reading ability that you can use later to understand what you have to learn in, for example. digital formation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211105931	I totally agree that we can't disagree on this at all. And again, I just think that what has been a very good start on this day is, of course, that the Minister recognises that it is the teachers who have to decide which materials are to be used in teaching. It is not some companies that monopolise certain learning means that the municipalities then buy in and force the schools to use. It's all wrong, and that's why this day is gonna be a day that I'm gonna tick on the calendar. It has a special memory every year; here there was a revelation in the Assembly Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110006	Thank you, Mrs. Marianne Jelved. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110019	Thank you. We know that the students' ability to read in primary school goes the wrong way and that pupils in fourth grade read less, that they enjoy reading less and that they have a worse understanding of text. Almost every tenth student in the 8th grade is doing badly in reading. This is really worrying, both for the individual and for our society. We also know that students find it harder to immerse themselves when reading on a screen. They are more quickly disturbed by something else, and they lose the sense of the material they physically hold when the book is replaced by an iPad, and at the same time we know that the physical books in many schools have been replaced by iPads. We in the SF are concerned about this development, and we believe that there should be a reflected use of these screens and the digital learning tools around all schools. Therefore, we would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on the consequences of digitalisation. We need to have both thought and vision. In SF we think it is absolutely crucial that teachers themselves experience being dressed for the task, but it is our impression that this is certainly not the case in all schools in Denmark. In the report "Digitalization with care and vision" 53 per cent. the teachers replied that they need to strengthen their skills in the use of digital learning tools in order to raise the academic level of the students, and therefore we also very much welcome the fact that the government will engage with the various key parties in the field as well as uncover the teachers' digital everyday life. So thank you for that. In addition to making sure that the teachers who are in primary school today are dressed to assess and use the latest digital learning tools, we must also ensure that our future teachers are dressed for it. Therefore, we in the SF believe that digitalisation teaching should be strengthened in teacher training. We think this will mean that newly trained teachers come out with the latest knowledge and can inspire the school's work in this area. That is why we are going to lift it here in the Ministry of Education and Research. I know that this is not where we are today, as the Minister also pointed out, but then we will have to take it somewhere else. Furthermore, we think it is also really important that these digital learning tools should not be governing, as has already been mentioned, but that educational considerations should be followed on how to use them and how to support teaching. Last but not least, I think it is also appropriate to mention that we continue to have an important task in putting digital education on the agenda, including in primary school. Studies show that Danish students are generally good at digital conduct, but at the same time the Umbrella case and other cases of vengeance porn are clear examples that we still have a lot of work to do in order to dress our children and young people to be better in the digital world, so that they learn that friends and classmates are not violated here either, and that this is generally the case online. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110324	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110329	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The rapporteur mentions a concern on the part of the SF that physical books are going out and digital learning aids are going in. This leads me to a curious question as to whether SF has any suggestions on how we can work with it. So, because one thing is to say that teachers must decide, but must we also do something else both to ensure that there are physical learning tools, but perhaps not least to ensure that there are some relevant digital learning tools for use and as an option for teachers who would like to use them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110407	I believe, as has already been mentioned in this debate, that it is important that there is precisely this freedom to choose between the digital solutions and the physical books, so that the individual teacher can choose what makes educational sense for him to use. So it's not because we have some plan in SF from in here, because it's a lot about the municipalities and the individual institutions. But we think it is important to talk about these things, and I am very pleased with the dialogue that the Minister will start with the relevant parties in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110437	Thank you to Mrs Astrid Carøe. Welcome, sir. Jakob Silver Mound from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211110455	Thank you for that, thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on the question debate here on the digitisation of the education system, and of course also thanks to the Minister for the reply. I believe that we need to have an ongoing debate both on the new opportunities that digitalisation opens up in our education system and they are great • but also on the problems and challenges that may be associated with digitalisation. I think it is really important that we work on how we can set a framework for digitalisation and how we can set guidelines for digitalisation, so that we have clear objectives in the best possible way, that we ensure high quality, that we ensure transparency and that we also ensure a system of development. And in this respect, I think it is particularly important, as several rapporteurs have already said, that we are in a close dialogue with the thousands of teachers who work with the various digital learning tools and systems in everyday life. If you look at the introduction of IT in primary school, there are many critical voices. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl also mentioned this in his speech here, namely that a great deal of energy has been spent discussing the purchase of iPads, learning platforms, electronic tablets etc. However, far too little time has been devoted to discussing how digitalisation can actually create the framework for better teaching. Looking at the investments that have been made, and this has already been mentioned, it is a relatively astronomical amount that has been spent in the primary school alone, where 2.5 billion have been spent in the period 2012-2017. kr. On it. I also believe that there is reason to question whether the full benefits of the very large investments have been realised. I think it is important that we also focus on what driving forces drive digital development forward in our education system, so that digital learning means do not become the driving force behind development. Mrs. Marianne Jelved was among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on this in my speech: the huge amount of money involved in the development and sale of digital teaching materials and systems. I think it is reasonable to believe that the large tech groups that operate by selling teaching materials and systems at least sometimes have a stronger focus on making maximum profits than on actually benefiting the social interests in relation to our education. It has become a billion-dollar business, and I think it is incredibly important that we discuss with each other how we avoid having a market-driven development in this whole area rather than what we would like to have, namely a democratically-controlled development that focuses primarily on using the technology to support good teaching and learners' learning. I also believe that it is important that we focus on the fact that digitalisation can drive forward a standardisation of teaching that overrides the competence of teachers. It is important that a new technology is used to support the purpose of the subject and the didactic approach of the teachers. That is why I would also like to say that it is very important for us to point out in the proposal for adoption that we should stress that teachers have the freedom to choose for themselves the means of teaching which, on the basis of professional judgement, they consider best suited to their teaching. In this context, it is very important that we also help to dress the teachers in the best way possible so that they receive the necessary training, both in their initial and continuing training. The Unity List supports the proposal for adoption that is before us. I really think it would have been a good thing if we could have brought into play the aspect of the whole commercialisation of the area so that it could also have been reflected in the proposal for adoption, but I hope that we can at least draw it into the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111001	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111008	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I therefore agree that the problem of commercialisation is something we also need to discuss, because in relation to the digital learning tools, we can see that the big tech giants • Apple is a very good example • almost gives, initially, iPads and learning tools for schools in order to get it into the market. And we have to ensure that there is a Danish offer, because in the past there were a lot of Danish publishers who also made teaching material, but there will be fewer over time. And for them it was easy to come out with the material, and it was easy to get it around. So I would really like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur elaborate a little more on how one could imagine that it could go this way, that we would ensure that we in Denmark have developed learning tools for the Danish primary school that fits into the Danish primary school, and how we might at that stage say no to some of the tech giants who come from outside with their thoughts and ideas about how things should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111122	So, I do not think it is up to the legislators to decide what educational resources are to be used. I think it is very wise that it is precisely up to professional judgements. But perhaps in the first place we should do it, that we created a greater awareness of it and perhaps did a mapping of it. Well, the scientist Jesper Balslev describes that as a nation we are Silicon Valley's best customer, and I have to say that it gibberes a little in me when I, for example. see that in Odense Municipality • and I will be careful in my criticism, for it may be that it is an excellent project • doing a big project together with Facebook, because then I think: Are we not close to too strong commercialisation? So maybe we should start by mapping out what it really looks like in this whole area, so that there's a stronger awareness in the municipalities and in the schools that there can be commercial interests that take up too much in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111227	[Sound emission]... a dialogue also with publishers and others. The challenge is, of course, that if there is to be a diversity, there will be a need for more than a dialogue, because it is so costly to develop, and also because that way around will be very expensive for the municipalities, and that is why you get the obvious incentive to choose a publisher and say that that is what you use and nothing else. So we do not have to come from in here, even though I do know that there are young people who say that we do not know anything about it in here, yet to go in and take control of this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111308	At any rate, I think it is true that we are discussing with each other how it should be dealt with, and in this way the problem is not entirely new, because we have had the discussion over decades, also about how the publishers who published the textbook materials were really governing the content of the programmes. I mean, a real governmentization of publishing, I'm not sure that's a good idea. At any rate, I know that it will face relatively massive opposition in the political system. But somehow it was more reassuring that there was a social governance of this than purely commercial governance. So I don't have a finished answer to it. In fact, however, I think it is important that we discuss between parties what tools we can use, so that it will not be the profits of large companies that will drive digitalisation, but the social consideration and consideration of good quality in our teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111401	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111404	This is the last comment that made me want to ask the rapporteur whether the ideal should not really be that a range of different teaching materials has been developed so widely that each teacher can put together teaching to suit the educational and didactic and professional purposes, and that must be what we are aiming for, rather than replacing a private monopoly with a state monopoly in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111430	My view was not that it should be a state monopoly. It was just an attempt to illustrate what you can actually do. What you have to say, if you look at what the problems have been in relation to the printed educational material, is that it may have been reasonably accessible to create a diversity. When you look at the whole digital education world, you have to say that the big players who are in this field are very, very forward-looking, and they have incredibly strong conditions to completely dominate the market. That is why I think it is a discussion we should take with each other: how do we prevent such a monopoly from being created? Of course, diversity, so that options are available to teachers, is really, really important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111519	The last part I fully agree with, and also that if it becomes a monopoly of private providers, perhaps even of foreign private providers, first and foremost of educational materials in Denmark, it will also be a democratic problem: who will decide the content of the teaching of the subjects at all? That is why the aim must be the freedom of the individual teacher to organize the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111543	I am pleased that the view is echoed. Maybe we should do some more research on what it looks like. In connection with the debate, I have tried to study a little what lies in inter alia. Norway, where you have been looking a little at this and uncovering some of the very strong interests of large IT groups such as Norway. It shows that a company such as Malmberg, which now controls many of the choices of the public sector, also has very strong interests there. So it's not just: let's keep the Americans away from this. It can very much also be large Nordic and, for that matter, also Danish commercial interests, which we should keep away from this system. But I'm happy with the announcement. I do not have the completed answers, but I think it is very important that we have a dialogue on how to avoid monopolisation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111638	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111640	I think it is a very central discussion and I wonder whether we should not take an initiative in a relevant committee, the Committee on Children's and Education, and hold a hearing on what the market looks like in this area, including in the Nordic countries, because it may be that we are inspired by something there. So I would like to contribute to that if there are others who will be involved, because I think it is really relevant to find out and get a look at the matter and to understand what the world looks like in terms of competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111719	I'm glad. I'd love to join you. I think it might be interesting that we looked at it. When I have a lot of focus on it and Enhedslisten has a lot of focus on it, it is also because we see it in other connections. For example: In relation to the whole way in which the PISA system is operated, it is not possible to start a whole new debate on a very close link, not least with the large international educational group called Pearson. I think that there is something worth addressing in the whole of the management, commercialisation, of education. Then, in the Committee on Children's and Education, we could have an expert hearing or a wider hearing or whatever it might be, I think it would be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111809	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no more brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211111830	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate. I was thinking that if people are sitting around out there watching the debate, they might get that impression, among other things. because very few questions are asked that you are not really so involved in the discussion, but I really think that is wrong. I really find that a great deal is being listened to and that there is also an exchange of views, even if it does not have to be some kind of crossfire. And if we can get such a good hearing up and running, we, at least from Conservatives, would also like to contribute to it. I think a lot of good things have been said from up here. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær said that it is a matter of ensuring the professional benefits at school as much as possible and that this is the most important thing, and I agree with that. I also agree with that, sir. Sten Knuth said, and in it, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl said that digitalisation is a tool, it is not an end in itself, and that one should be aware not to choose the easy solution, which one unfortunately fails to do sometimes today. Then I shall try to bring some perspectives into the debate and discussions here, which have not been forthcoming, and this is something that may well be of importance to the group of students, in particular, who are not strong. In the last meeting there was a part of the teaching rapporteurs who had been in a meeting with the Danish Teacher's Association, and on the agenda there was a point about inclusion and coaching, that is, this with the importance of involving the students in the community, because now we have to include more, and yet inclusion risks becoming exclusion. Two examples were highlighted at the table I was sitting at. One example was about a student with adhd who showed that the student can quickly be exposed to this race around the building to get rid of some energy and come back into the class experience, which basically is an exclusion and not an inclusion in the class community. What is also a challenge that is actually being reinforced is the choice of a solution that lies just ahead and becomes the easy solution for the learner with adhd. Here the learner gets a digital learning programme, which the learner can put out in the hallway with, but there will be teaching and learning along those lines. It may well be better than when the alternative was to sit down in the back of the class and make noise or stand outside the classroom, that is to say to be completely excluded and put outside the door. However, you still run the risk that the digital learning programme will be the last resort for learning... it will not be the best way to learn... and it will mean that we will be faced with a number of students who will not actually get a sufficient professional benefit, even though we have a duty to ensure them the best way to learn, in that we have said that they should be accommodated in the class community. So I think that is an important point to make. So just two other points: in reality, this also has a significance in the area of day-care, where iPads are used in different ways. They are certainly also used in accordance with the educational curriculum, but I just think that we have all tried to experience at least if you are a parent and have children in the day care institution to come into the living room to pick up your child and then see that there are eight students sitting around an iPad; there you have to consider whether it is no more a form of storage in a passive community than it is so much more. There may also be a challenge here. If you have a student who has some challenges, you give the student a timeout, at least I've heard of that several times, and that timeout is a screen, and even that screen is actually YouTube. Now I'm not a scientist and I don't know what to say, special things that happen in the brain of a child with adhd, if the child is presented to YouTube, but I just think that when you swipe over and over and over again, it probably isn't what helps those children to calm down. The last reflection I really just have is about the fact that parents have to make up for themselves what it has meant and will mean with more screens and iPads in the home. I came to reflect on the fact that I'm currently reading Harry Potter out loud for my son... it's a great universe to get into the iPad and I chose the easy solution, which was also the cheapest solution, namely to download the book on the iPad. I can now sit there and reflect on it and think whether in the long run there is a difference between sitting with a book where you can almost catch the smell, when you turn the pages, whether you have bought it antiquarian or from new, and sitting with an iPad. There's gotta be a difference. At least as a parent, you have to reflect on that, just as you have to consider how to use the different things. Then I have four seconds left, and I would actually just like to say that I am delighted that we are coming up with a joint proposal for adoption on this, and I also think that today's debate has shown that there is a good deal of consensus to be agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112338	Thank you. There are a few comments. The first are from sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112343	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I therefore agree that, although there is no question-making all the way through, it is not because we do not all think this is really, really important, because I actually see that we have a broad consensus that it is important. I also agree, when Mrs Mai Mercado raises the issue of inclusion, that using it as such a passive care-like thing, both at school and, as such, in the day institutions, certainly does something negative. I think that this must lead to a need for more knowledge about when it works, how it can be used and what it can be used for. Another solution is to use fewer screens, that is to say, at school you should not send Peter out and run around the school alone, nor should you put Peter in the corner with a screen. And then, of course, the challenge is what we do: is it more staff, or what could the solution be to this challenge?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112444	Perhaps I should actually add that I really do not think there is any malicious will in this, so it was certainly not to shoot at some employees, on the contrary, I think they are doing great. But I also believe that this will be the easy solution, because that is what lies in the face of pressure in everyday life. And one of the things that has been discussed at the Danish Teacher's Association is that when you enter a teaching room, you at least think about how to organize it, so you meet the student directly. There was co-teaching after all one of the examples of something that you can use, where you have a specialist teacher or a teacher employed at a special school who comes over and helps co-teach, so you get picked up throughout the class and not only on that part of the class that is professionally stronger and can therefore be challenged in a common way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112540	I therefore agree that there must be many, many solutions. But what I also hear, which I think we may also agree on, is that we lack knowledge. We lack knowledge of what works, when it works and when we can use the digital learning tools. There are some people with certain diagnoses who really benefit from being able to sit the clinic at times, which may not be YouTube, but be something else that is constructive in relation to what you are about to do. So, knowledge, training for teachers and educators, those who are out there, both those who are there now and those who are going to be there in the future, I think we'll agree that we need to develop and be together to create better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112622	We are in complete agreement on this. I also think that all parties have an interest in getting that knowledge, because we, as politicians, have, of course, and so do we, whether you are a parent or a teacher, or you are a school leader, an interest in getting the knowledge of what these screens do to our students and what the difference is between teaching with old-fashioned board teaching and digital learning courses. We all have an interest in getting the drill out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112651	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112654	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we lack knowledge in this area. Now I am not hearing Mrs Mai Mercado say either or, but as regards the experiences that children in primary school may feel excluded, there are also examples of how they are offensive, based on what we know is being involved in primary school through e-sports or gaming through some of the qualities it has. There one can be included across religion, gender and age, and indeed also disability and exposure, that is to say, part of a community. So it can also be something that has been seen around the country, and we need to get that in play when we continue to talk about this whole area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112747	As long as it is good and healthy habits where you are included and involved in a community, it is quite fine, but I also think that there are very many examples of students in a class who are not invited to those gaming sessions, and here you risk social media being excluded. I think we had a fantastic query debate on bullying last week, where we were among other things. discussed that simply not being addressed on social media can be bullying, because you just get ignored and thus don't become part of a community. So I fully agree that we lack knowledge and that we must, of course, try to get as much knowledge as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112835	I just do not think it is black and white, and that is what the rapporteur is saying here. Because there are actually primary schools around Copenhagen and, in fact, also post-schools that bring this in and where everyone can feel included, because it is being used very correctly, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112853	That's exactly where I think the distinction will be how to use it. In other words, is it used with a view to teaching, or is it a little unconsciously used? Because if it is the unconscious use of both screens and gaming, and whatever it may be, then at least you run the risk that it is not thought through, and that is why I just appeal to you to think it through. I actually hear that the Danish Teacher's Association really buys that. They themselves also say that when it comes to inclusion and the digital learning programmes, one must ensure that there is a good purpose to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112930	Thank you, Mrs Mai Mercado, and welcome to the House. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211112944	I have written this speech in my hand, and that means, of course, that I may have some difficulty deciphering it. But it actually means that I master handwriting, and when I wrote it, I remembered that it is actually incredibly rare that I have seen my children write a longer text in my hand. I know they can, but when they finally come to me to help them with a task, it's all on print. I sometimes wonder if handwriting can be found among young people in 20 years' time. I do not know, it is difficult to predict the future, and there may also be some counterculture that makes it very modern. But if it disappears, I'm not actually sure I have a problem with it. If it disappears, it may be because it is not necessary to have it. I am not afraid of development in any way, i.e. digitalisation is a big part of our everyday life, and it has brought with it a lot of good things. It will be an even greater part of our children's everyday life, and it will be so much of our grandchildren's everyday life that we may find it difficult to imagine it today. But I've had some worries anyway. I was very supportive when my kids got iPad at school. We live far out in the countryside, and think how I thought that country school was a visionary. But that worries me, and I get a little feeling that the democratic decisions are starting to leak between our fingers. In other words, we run the risk of having less diverse teaching material and less quality when large digital companies compete in the education market and go as close to getting a monopoly as they can. It is precisely the free market that we are so busy supporting in these years. But I think we should do this with caution, at least in this area. I also share the concern with the rapporteurs who ask: how can we take back governance and ensure diversity and quality in teaching materials and truly ensure that teachers have a wider choice? I also jumped a little in the chair, namely, when Mr. Henrik Dahl said that if someone had proposed or forced us 30 years ago that everyone had an electronic device that made everyone who wanted it know where they were, we might have thought they were pretty crazy. Actually, I think that's right. That way, we'll let big companies in too. I don't know if that was it, sir. Henrik Dahl announced it; I will take it on my own cape and we give a lot of information about our children to market forces that use them to tailor ads and advertisements directly to our children. I can worry about that, too. My concern is also on the digital highway of entertainment that we have brought right in where our children are going to sit and learn. I've been talking to several kids who say that half of their class is playing Counter-Strike or other things while they're being taught. There was one who suggested that we put up a mirror in the back of the class, because when the teacher could see how many were sitting and playing, they would die or at least have a shock. It could be a concrete idea with such a mirror. I think we're going to debate this a lot more. I am pleased that the Minister is aware of this and I am pleased that the Minister will enter into dialogue with suppliers, teachers, schools and all other parties to discuss these challenges. I also find it interesting to see the Minister's proposal for a non-target for teachers, which in fact gives them the freedom to choose much more. I am also listening to Mrs Marianne Jelved's wise words about digital education for pupils and teachers at school, and we would very much like to take part in a hearing which will examine this further. I think we need to arm ourselves with these big digital business interests that will affect our society in the coming years. It is both in the field of school and in many other areas of our society. So thank you to DF for promoting the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113337	Thank you. There are some brief comments. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, I would say that it could also be comfortable that the President had a large mirror behind the well, it was probably untimely. Here you go, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113353	I mean, right now I see it as such that everyone is so preoccupied with the debate here that no one is doing anything else on their screens as far as I can see. Sir. Torsten Gejl starts by talking about handwriting, and that the speech is written in the hand, but it will not be worrying if the handwriting disappears. And then I get a little worried, because some of the research that I see indicates that there is a connection between brain development in small children and their motor development. And if we place them in front of a screen and they really just have to sit and press a keyboard, they might get another development. I find that worrying. I know we lack more knowledge about it, but until we have the knowledge, I will be really, really worried if you say it doesn't matter if the handwriting disappears. In fact, I think it is very important for the children's development that they learn handwriting and use handwriting. Whether we see at the age we have reached stop using handwriting is probably more irrelevant. However, if, in the context of development and in the context of learning, you need it, I am afraid that it is a necessity if we are to develop properly and properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113504	If studies prove that precise handwriting is necessary for the child's development of his brain, I would be happy to cherish the handwriting. I think there are many things involved in that process. People also developed their brains before they started writing by hand. But if it's such an important thing for brain development, I get it. I just think that the necessity of handwriting will be lifted, and that is why I think we will communicate digitally, whether we like it or not. So there I think sometimes we have to say which framework we will then have for it. Sometimes we are caught up in a development that we may not agree with, but which we need to set up a framework for, so that we can at all ensure in this case the diversity and quality of teaching material in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113555	I can easily see it in the practical world. I can see the same things as the rapporteur says, namely that young people are increasingly responding and writing and that everything is going on digitally. But when I see studies that say that the ability to read, the ability to understand actually also has a connection with motor development, I think we have to take it seriously. And then you can see if you can find other ways to promote motor development that can replace it. And in the first place, we have to say that we need to know a lot more about what is happening. Fortunately, things have also been set in motion, and it is also part of the plan that we jointly now decide that the government will stand on in future work, that the health, developing part of it is also part of it. So do we not have to take it seriously and not say that it doesn't matter if the handwriting disappears?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113647	As I said, if it can be shown that handwriting is a very important part of learning to read and also of the development of the brain, then I would like to help protect the handwriting. But I'd like to see that before I believe it. I think it will disappear like many other things, and there I think we just have to figure out how to replace it with other mechanisms that can ensure the same motor development.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113716	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113719	In 2012 the TV program Detector showed that 14 out of 15 Danish history books wrongly passed on the claim that Columbus had proved that the Earth was spherical, that is, that people before Columbus believed that the Earth was flat. People in Europe have known this since ancient times that it was not. When I give this example, it is because the rapporteur mentions the quality of the teaching materials we have. I mean, it's not like the teaching materials we have are amazing. Then the rapporteur acknowledges that there is also a dilemma of quality, in other words that getting capital into developing teaching materials can also make them better and that what we have is not always fantastic?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113806	Yes, I recognize that dilemma. The fact that there is an open market will, of course, mean that there will be a great diversity of teaching material, thereby giving teachers a very broad choice in choosing teaching material. But what happens often is that larger and larger players buy smaller players and that markets are monopolised. There I am afraid that in this area we will have a more narrow supply of material from much fewer providers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113843	Yes, but what was the problem here was that in the Danish learning media market, with lots of competition and lots of players, 14 out of 15 books colported the real nonsense of Danish school students. So that doesn't solve the problem. What are the rapporteur's comments on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113905	This is a quirky example; I do not know if it can be used to generalise on. I'm not standing here with the big solution to this. I think this is a huge challenge and I think we are going to discuss it very much. What I think should be our objective is that, regardless of how we approach it, there must be as great a diversity and quality of teaching material as possible. When teachers start to feel that they are getting leglocked or when you start getting signals from school saying that there is some kind of alignment or that the choices are being reduced, then I get worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113942	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more brief comments, and welcome to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211113958	Thank you. Our teaching rapporteur could not be here today, so I have become a substitute. But this particular area is an area that I will probably be able to take care of, because I come directly from the Danish primary school. I have been in the Danish primary school and worked in the Danish primary school for over 20 years, so if there's anything I know about, it's digitalization in the Danish primary school and hands on experiences about it. I think it might be important to kill the first myth, and it is about the textbooks, as Mr. Henrik Dahl here pulls in a little bit. But they weren't an oracle. With the economy and what was going on in primary school, you got a textbook, and when you took over a class, those textbooks were perhaps often 10, 12, 13 and 14 years old, because there was no money to replace an entire class set every year, every two years or every three years. So the physical books were bad tools to give up-to-date knowledge to the children, and the teachers knew that well, so they were only used for some postings sometimes. But for many, many years, you've walked away from the Slavic to follow these textbooks. Even the field of history, but also the field of social sciences, are areas which are constantly updated, where you learn more and where you change from the EC to the EU etc. So in a number of areas the books were simply not the right solution. Then came this digital wave, which has come in with new technology, and it has made teaching much better in real, very many areas, that is, much better. That is why I do not think we should have a debate on either or. The textbooks that we have out there are usually so old that they don't give any more relevance, and if you want to buy new textbook systems, while you have digital systems and you update them both, then we're talking about really, very many expenses that you have to put out in this area. Therefore, I would like to see you try to look at what it is that creates the good teaching and what is happening in that learning for the students, and it is not a question of whether it is digital aids or not, and whether you are on a screen or not. Basically, it is quite different conditions that make good learning happen. It is clear that as a teacher I would like to put the teacher at the centre, but it is also an interaction with the pupils, with the municipality that stands for it and the parents who are around. This is the interaction where you can see good schools and you can see bad schools, and you can see schools that lift the students, and you can see schools that don't. Digital learning tools about this aren't the one that's going to decide. Then there is a fear that monopolies will be created. But that was indeed true in the book field. There you had in the municipalities supply contracts, and you bought from a publisher or two publishers, and that's what you got. So the monopolies also existed with books, and one can say that the freer the market becomes, the more people can play a part in it. However, the way in which digital learning tools are used today is that, if there is money, and if the municipalities choose to give priority to this, they may buy both from Gyldendal and from Alinea, which means that you have two different players. The way we as teachers out there use this is that we take and pick from the different, because we just don't want to follow these old books that were followed Slavically. Because it doesn't work, and neither does it, if you take one digital learning system and then use it. Therefore, they are also built around topics, it is built around themes, so you can take the things you want and organise your own teaching out there. So in a whole range of areas, I would certainly like to welcome from the primary school and the colleagues I have out there and say that there really are some possibilities in these tools. If you want to look at what has damaged the primary school, you have to look at L 409 instead, a huge, massive abuse of teachers' professional skills and working hours. This is probably the biggest disaster that has occurred in recent Danish times in connection with the primary schools. Then the full-day school has also been a huge problem, and the skills of teachers in these areas have not been built up. I remember when I looked at my paycheck as a teacher, I could see that I was still getting a supplement for an IT licence that I took 15 years ago. It was something like this where you had to learn how to send an e-mail, and it just shows that the teachers are completely outdated in this area. There you simply have to upgrade if you want to use them more than you already do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114501	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114506	Thank you. And thank you for your speech with some information from the real world. One of the things we are discussing a lot today is what the digital learning tools can and cannot do. The starting point, for example, is: the result of PISA, which shows that using screens very much actually has a negative effect on children's learning and children's ability to read. I fully agree that, of course, it makes a huge difference what context one finds itself in, whether the teachers work well with the students, whether the framework is in order and whether the teachers are skilled, etc., but if we cut it down to dealing with the teaching means, I would like to ask the rapporteur if there is no need for us to have any more knowledge about what works and what does not work, when it is good and when it is bad, for example. in relation to reading or other subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114611	No, not immediately. As a teacher, you know quite quickly whether your teaching programme and the teaching material you use work or not. We deliver on our courses, so we know quite quickly whether it works or not, and if it doesn't work, hopefully you'll change it if you're a professionally skilled teacher. What does not work is monotonous teaching, and it does not matter whether it is digital platforms where you just sit in front of a screen or whether it is board teaching, writing or anything else. But monotonous and monotonous teaching is deeply damaging to people's learning. So it is not related to the way the questioner puts it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114651	So the developments we are seeing now are not linked to digitalisation, but to the fact that teachers have become more monotonous in their teaching, and when we get poor results, is it really because teachers do not take the consequence of what they do not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114709	I don't think you can attribute digital learning aids to us getting bad results. I believe you can attribute the law 409, which was a huge assault on the teachers. It has resulted in a lack of preparation for teachers and a lack of freedom for teachers to act and organise some of them. Then there has also been a population approach to Denmark, which we can see also has an impact on how well students are doing in school. So there are a number of examples of why students are doing worse today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114738	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114740	Thank you. I think perhaps to some extent that the rapporteur ignores the impact of digital instruments on education. For example: is the fact that such an electronic highway of entertainment industry has been put right into the classroom, where for example. students with iPads can sit and serve all types of electronic games that are even available on the market while teaching. Does the rapporteur not think that it might be an additional challenge to have such great entertainment opportunities right in the midst of young people's learning spaces?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114820	However, it is not a problem with the means of learning, nor is it a problem that technology causes. The problem here is the teacher. Well, if I don't want my students to look at a screen when I'm explaining something to them, then I'm asking them not to. That's my authority. That's my job as a teacher. If I don't like my students sitting there looking at an iPad when I have to present something, then I'll make sure they don't. It has nothing to do with what kind of technology there is. It has something to do with whether the teacher sits in respect of the students he faces. I have no problem with my students using digital tools if it helps. If I need them to look up at me and I need them to be in a dialogue and we need a conversation, then I ask them to participate in it, and if they do not, there is a consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114904	I certainly believe that the rapporteur can make a class fit, although I am not always quite sure that the rapporteur knows what they are doing on their iPads. It's probably gonna take a mirror on the back wall. But isn't it an extra challenge for teachers in general that students can now sit and play all types of games right in the middle of the class?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211114930	If you as a teacher have a problem with that, you can say that you shouldn't have the computer open in your hours. You're completely free to do that. If you think you have a problem with your students playing games in your hours, then you can do it. And if there is a whole school that thinks there are problems with it, then you can take it up on the school board, and then the school board can decide that computers and stuff like that should not be used in teaching. But personally, I have absolutely no problem with it. It creates so much value. If I need them not to be open, I'll ask the students to put them in the bag. It is no more difficult than that. There was also a time when the students sent letters to each other, and that was also a challenge. Then there was the challenge that they went to the bathrooms and talked to each other. Well, there are constant challenges in primary school, and this is just another one of them. But there it is all about taking it and not making it more difficult than it is. If I have a problem with that I think there are some students who are too focused on their computer screen or their iPad or any other • e.g. I usually have the cell phone in my bag, but then I just ask them to shut them down, and if they don't want to, then they have to leave my classroom. Well, it's no longer, and the students know that, and they can easily adapt. One should not be mistaken: young people are insanely capable of adapting to what we adults are asking them to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115042	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and warmly welcome to Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115059	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this exciting debate and thank you for the many good comments. The digitalization has come to stay. There can be no doubt about that, but this does not mean that any position on digitisation should be dropped or that digitalisation can take only one form. And I believe that one of the most important lessons to be learned from the digitalisation process we have been through is that it is not a substitute for thinking, and it is not a substitute for thinking. Of course you can't use it to cheat. Of course, you can't use IT to mentally leave teaching, and why can't you? Well, that's because you can't cheat, and that's because you can't leave school without permission. The fact that you use it to do it and that you use it to do something wrong doesn't change the fact that what you're doing is wrong. After all, digitalisation does not remove quite fundamental insights that have been made before the computer was invented. You have to store some of your knowledge in long - term memory, and only things enter long - term memory by repeating them. You need to learn to concentrate. You only acquire skills by practicing, and if you don't have a skill, you don't know what you don't know. There are none of these things that digital development has changed on, and that will probably not change in the future either. So that means that many of the issues relating to digitisation are, in fact, issues that can be dealt with by common sense and by remembering old truths. What I think is more complicated and it is something that requires more attitude. This is, of course, the fact that digitalisation, if you just let go, can disband old professions. In other words, it can dissolve the teacher's profession; that is what you can hear with regard to portals and with the transfer of responsibility it disbands the profession. And it can also dissolve old institutions, i.e. it can dissolve the teaching work, and it can dissolve the school as we know it. There is, of course, the discussion as to whether it is desirable, and we must of course take that discussion here in Parliament; we must not neglect to take a position on that. Sometimes I think that the worst thing about digitisation is that it has caused really many people to panic. The driving force behind digitising the school system has been that the world is changing insanely quickly and that we have to react, otherwise we will fall behind. I think that is an extremely hasty conclusion. Within 10 years around 1900 psychoanalysis appeared, the theory of relativity was published, and the first cubistic painting was painted. So that means that within approx. Ten years had a new view of nature, a new view of man and a new view of art. We also received a high school reform in 1903 and matched it with education. So, the way you reacted back then was to say that you have to have some formation, and you have to learn some of the things that don't change. It was a good reform, and it lasted 85 years too. It was not modified until 1988. It was some politicians who had thought about it. So it may well be that this whole idea that the world is now changing enormously quickly, and that we must now forget everything we have ever known in the past, is in fact the most dangerous effect of digitization, and that the best means of digitalization is remembering old truths and remembering education, as was done around 1900. And that is perhaps where we have had the biggest problem of digitisation: all the headlong decisions that it has withdrawn. However, I am incredibly pleased with this debate and I am pleased that we have reached such a broad proposal for adoption as we actually are. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115543	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115548	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for some comments that I also think may lead to us not rushing, but at the same time we must be careful, and we must ensure that the things we do are reflected and properly done. If we could now create a framework for primary school and the way to learn, where we focus on learning, which could last the next 85 years, then it would be really, really exciting. That is why my comment to the rapporteur is actually that we should not go back to what we would call the black school in the old days, but the values we have in primary school today, I hear we must also safeguard. I do not hear the rapporteur say that we need to abolish primary school because digitalisation could do so. At any rate, I think I have heard the wrong words, but the rapporteur can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115640	What I think has been the problem with digitalisation has been that it has caused too many people to think that now we live in a science fiction world where all old insights are useless and all traditional knowledge must be thrown away and that we are now starting from scratch on a blank sheet. And that is simply not true. What I was trying to say in my speech was that some elementary moral rules, for example. in relation to cheating or in relation to mentally or physically removing oneself from the teaching, the fact is that one is not being abolished by digitising. Basic rules on how people learn and what it means to have a professionalism are not repealed by digitalisation either. So the worst part of digitalization has almost been the fact that it mistakenly led people to believe that now the future had come and now we should have the glossy sheet.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115740	The questioner? No, so thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl, and we have come to the Minister for Children and Education, who has the great task of picking up today's debate. The Minister has another 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211115756	Thank you very much for a good debate. Now, in fact, we have had three questions here over the last few weeks, and these are the first questions I have had as a minister, and I just welcome the form of the debate. I welcome the fact that initiatives can be taken on the broad front in the Folketing, and I think that the form works very well. When I mention this, it is because a few of the rapporteurs, including the Conservatives, said that the lack of inquisitiveness was not an indication of a lack of interest, and that is as true as has been said. I mean, I think we are getting a lot out of being able to do this, because I think we are just getting politically heard what each other's perspectives are. That is to say, I think it is extremely useful, even in terms of being able to make the agreements that follow on from this. What is being set in motion on top of a question like this today is that we in the government are taking the initiative to engage in dialogue with all the parties that we have discussed along the way and that we in the conciliation circle will come up with a draft on how we can move forward in relation to the rules that have been agreed on common objectives. It is just to say that it is in fact in this type of debate that really is about machinery spaces, unlike much of what I find we have developed over the last few decades. If I may say for a moment that some things were better in the old days, one of the things that was better in the old days was that people had questions instead of having consultation. There are some who do not quite think so, because much time is spent preparing the questions; many hours have been spent before we are here today. I think that is a good thing. We also spend a long time on the question itself; it takes twice as long as a consultation. I think that is very positive too. Then it is true that the pace is lower, the level of aggression is lower, the content is heavier and everything is more well prepared, but I do not think there is anything bad to say about it. It is good and it is good for our democracy. So if anyone is concerned about the number of questions, the Minister does not share the concern. I just think it's good. Then I would like to say something about the individual things that have been up here. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked about this commercialisation, and I am very pleased that it is stated that we are not going to a state monopoly, because the whole idea must be, and especially when we are dealing with education, that things grow and are diverse. That is the whole foundation of democratic formation, that is to say diversity. That is why one of the things that concerns me most about digitalisation is that people are confronted with pseudo-elections, and it is no better that this was the case with the old teaching materials. I mean, I've been watching fights about what to use the book account on when you bought the books physically, so there have been problems there, but that doesn't make it any better. I would have been on the team where it was about getting as many different types of teaching material as possible in the fights about the book account at the school in the old days. After all, we must move forward to a place where we are actually cultivating the diversity at the heart of our democracy. I think it is a huge problem that we are now there, where many teachers find that portal teaching is what is going to be the solution, and I think something has got worse, because there are some of the books that are in schools that have always been there, in other words, Astrid Lindgren, for example. not to invest in every year, and the challenge now that things are digital is that there may be some things that you have access to and there may be other things that you do not have access to. Astrid Lindgren is probably one of the things we always have access to, but there can only be other types of materials that you then no longer have access to, because it is another type of subscriptions that are purchased. What the teachers then say is that they have to stand for an incredible amount of time on the waiting list to get the physical versions of the same, and that is not good. We simply have to go in and see if there is anything that controls the teaching materials too much. I also believe that there is a discussion about who owns the data. In other words, if you have had students over 3-4 years, and a data base has been built, where you can see how the students have moved in the mathematics teachings where the gaps are; what they have been good at; where you can see that there is a common thread in what they have not been so good at; how you pick up that and if that data material is digital and you change the supplier, you lose data. Is that appropriate? No, that's not appropriate. Is there anything we can do about it? No, I do not think so, but we can work our way there, and that is where I think the decision-making power is really crucial, which is why it is very important that we do so together. I think it is a long, tough move to get a grip on the digitalisation that has come to fill so much in primary school, and that is why we need to be able to see it across parties and over parliamentary terms in order to be able to hold on to it. Then the Radical Left proposes a hearing. As a minister, I should not interfere with that, but I would just welcome it if there were any initiative to do so, because I think that would be very good. I would find it really interesting if there were a lot of teachers present, because I have been quite shocked to hear how the actual education in the primary school takes place not everywhere, but in some places. That is deeply problematic. Next, I think it is crucial to hear the students too, because the students address this as a dull way of being taught, because the portal is similar to itself; whether you have physics or Danish, the physical expression is the same. And that means that then we are back to it with board teaching, and we have spent 30 years trying to get away from that, but if it's just replaced by a digital screen that even looks the same, it sounds to me horrible. So there are some debates here that we need to address, and for a hearing, of course, it would be very useful, in my opinion, to use both the students and the teachers' perspective on things. To the Danish People's Party in relation to the negative relationship between digitization and learning, I would say that it is double. I am deeply concerned about that, because if we have to point out something in structural terms, we have to say that ten years' effort to make the young better at learning to read and calculate before leaving primary school has not worked. Then we will have to look at the structural grip that goes the opposite way. We have done some things that have gone in the direction of their being able to do so, but then some things have happened that have gone the opposite way, and some of the things that have gone the opposite way may well be exactly what we are discussing here, namely whether the balance is the right one. I don't think it's either-or, I think it's a boat-and in a balance between the digital learning tools and so the old-fashioned ones, and that balance may have been lost. So we are talking about a grip which is so large that it may be the secret of the failure of ten years of reading work. This is so serious, and we have to take it seriously. I am also deeply concerned that for some of those who have dyslexia in their luggage, it is simply harder to learn to read if it is done on a screen. It's a disaster! The digital backpack has been a gift to people who are dyslexic, but if you do not combine it with the knowledge about how groups of dyslexic learn best to read, we are in the same way, and then we have done it again with something that has gone in the right direction, but at the same time we are introducing something that destroys all the effort we have made. So I think there's a good reason why we get those balances back. Then the Alternative's rapporteur, Torsten Gejl, says that he supported it when iPads came to school and perceived it as a progressive move. So did I. I'm definitely not a technology freak, and I love all the new gadgets you can get your hands on, and I think it's super exciting. So I think there's a lot of people who've been on that thing that says everything's okay, fire it off, go out there, let's see what all this new stuff can do with exciting things. That is exactly where I think it is time we pull out the emergency brake and stop and say: Exciting decade, now we have to see what we got and what we lost on it. I have to say that it was simply so that it ran me cold down my back when I heard about the first schools that started running the last class sets on combustion. It's running me cold down my back! One thing is good to like the new gadgets, but I love books, and I can't even imagine that we could have a school without books and all the spirit that belongs to both the drunk new pages and the old dusty ones. Books belong in school, and books must be a core of what is in school, and we must never go away from that. So we must never let the new and the exciting become the worst enemy of the solid, because it's no good. So we have to find a proper balance between those things. Then, in connection with the very thing with Columbus, I would like to say that I got my daughter into it yesterday, so thank you for the update on when it was discovered that the earth is round and speaking of how long wrong information in the history material can bite into the heads of people. So yes, of course there were huge challenges when one only taught on the basis of written material that could lie for generations, because one took over the books from each other and therefore did not get things right. So, yes, the new world can do something, and we must embrace that, but we really must be careful to let ourselves be strapped to a wagon where we just drift out there at a far too high pace and in a direction where we forget everything that was valuable about the old. Thank you very much for the debate, thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again raising a very good question debate which has brought us forward on some of what I think is one of the most important discussions of our time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120716	The 10 minutes worked out perfectly well. The Minister for Children and Education Good. ) There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120723	Thanks for a good pickup. Now I do not know whether what I heard in the Minister's speech was a strategy or an action plan, but I certainly heard that some things had to happen, and I am very pleased about that, and then the Minister will have to find out what it should be called. But where I got a little concern was when the Minister referred to Astrid Lindgren and said that it is probably digital and some of what will be there, so there will be access to it. I do not know whether this was contradicted by the Minister himself later. My concern is that it does not matter whether you have it in a digital form and have to read and understand it or whether you have it in the good old book form. It may be that I am old-fashioned, so I have an idea that it was better in the old-fashioned days, but I also think that there are research results that indicate that it makes a difference. So I would like to know whether it was a statement from the Minister and a promise that there is some knowledge we need and that we need to get. What is it that works and what are we going to do to find precisely the balance that I fully agree with and which the Minister is also talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120829	I actually think it is because I think there are different layers in it. There must be books, and yes, Astrid Lindgren in particular has to be read in book form. And I think that is an independent point and an independent one in the debate. Because, yes, books must be the core and there must be a balance between the new and the old. That's one part. The second part is that of availability. I am extremely concerned when teachers find that in practice, either formally and in reality, it is not an option for them to obtain certain types of materials, because the waiting time is too long to get their hands on them, or that it is not available because it is not part of the package they have purchased. This means that there is both a question of book on the digital and a question of availability and freedom of choice, which must not just be a pseudo-choice, but must be a real choice between different types of teaching materials • what do you think is good and bad? So that's really what it was all about. I think there are both axes in the debate and I do not think that we have hit it correctly yet on any of the axes. And it runs me cold down my back, that is, the thing about running the books on the burn. It's just not gonna work. In other words, books are crucial to our desire to learn; you can see that from the results that are in relation to motivation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211120949	Thank you for your answer. It calmed me a little bit. At any rate, I would also like to give the support of the DF to do this; I think we should do that, because we need that discussion. Perhaps the Minister could be allowed to attend so that she could also hear what was actually said. Maybe it could be a really good thing. So I'm just looking forward to getting on with this work, and I'm glad everyone thinks it's so important. So thank you for that, and I have nothing more today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121019	I would certainly be very happy to receive an invitation. So I don't have any more from here except once again a big thank you for the way we can debate these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121028	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121031	I just have two things. There is already a possibility that you can make agreements with the providers that the municipality and the schools own the data, so that is actually possible in some of these areas. In addition, I do not think one should be afraid that books disappear out of school.I do not think the teachers have an interest in this, but it may well be that class sets disappear because it is an expensive and ineffective way of doing so rather than getting the books, both professional books and fictional books, from a common centre, a municipal place. And it is true that there may well be problems with accessibility, and you will have to work with that, but it will still be far cheaper than getting class sets out at all of these schools. The last thing I'd like to address is this with these learning platforms, we're talking about whether it's one or the other. It is already the case that an additional layer has been added in the way we are working today. After all, we gather from the various providers, for example. Gyldendal, Alinea and the others, into one common learning platform, so that's the one the students have access to, and it's from it that the teaching takes place. This is how we collect things, and although we may not use books so much, we often use articles, and we also use things that we print out and give the students, because there is a value in them getting something on print, so they have something they can sit and touch with their hands. So we do, and we still use it away, although we may not use the classic old textbooks and class sets as much as we used to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121159	That is also how I have heard it; it also reflects the reality I hear about. And when I hear people say that they want a target of 15%. I just don't think that's good enough. Then I would say that it is fine that you have the opportunity to conclude that agreement, but if a municipality does not, then the teacher is completely equal, that is, in the practical everyday life of the teacher. If the municipality has not entered into that agreement, then the municipality has not entered into that agreement with the result that the data disappears. That is the challenge, and the same applies to the learning objectives. It may well be that from in here we have said that they have become volunteers, but if the municipality has imposed something on them, then it is not voluntary; so the teacher must do what the municipal council has decided. This means that in relation to the freedom of the teacher: Forget about it. After all, it is all in the hands of executives who make some decisions and that is what they have to teach. This was also the case in East Germany, and I am therefore glad that I did not go to school there. It is just to say that the taking of the freedom to organise one's own teaching from the teacher is simply contrary to some fundamental democratic principles in our society. Then it may well be that they have the opportunity to do something else, but the teacher cannot do anything about it if those opportunities are not available; then it will be a pseudo-election, and I simply do not think that is good, and I think that is contrary to the way we have built up the primary school. And I do not think that anyone has done so because they want us to have East German conditions. That is just what it has become, and we have to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121327	I very, very much agree with that. That is precisely where the problem lies, and that is why the solution is to put it on a more decentralized footing, that is to say into the schools themselves, so it is the schools themselves that have the opportunity to make these decisions; so you don't suddenly find out that now you have to drive with this system and that next year you have to drive with a different system. I myself have just been in the situation where one year we ran with a system, and then we deleted it all to run with a new system. These are things that have been decided by officials in the municipality. A school and a responsible headmaster would never have made that decision, because you know how important it is to your teachers and you know how important it is to learning. So I fully agree that if that means that the direction is that the decisions must go out and lie decentralized and far closer to the pupils, parents and teachers, then that is absolutely something that we will also support in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121410	What is interesting at the same time is that as things are now, it is possible for publishers or for providers of teaching material to dictate a cost to the Danish primary school. I still think that is quite far-reaching. I mean, if you, for example... chooses to change the interface, this means that the teachers have to reshape the entire way they have structured their courses. It costs a lot of hours, doesn't it? When we normally impose such tasks on primary school, a DUT requirement follows. Well, that means we're paying for it, and if we don't, somebody's gonna make a noise. But here it is then possible for private companies to impose additional tasks on school teachers in the Danish primary school, i.e. time that could have been spent with parents or with pupils who need the teacher to spend some more time with them. So it's just to stress that I think there's some work to be done. And I fully agree that it is a matter of getting it right out there where it started, that of the teacher, who should have the opportunity to decide what educational material is being used and how to organise courses. We simply have to go there again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211121513	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. And I would like to thank you for an instructive debate. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday 12 December 2019. We shall now postpone the sitting and resume it at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130003	The sitting is resumed. Today there are the following reviews: Peter Skaarup (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 57 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of child sex dolls) and motion for a resolution No. Β 60 (Proposal for a resolution on the withdrawal of passport from convicted paedophiles). Zenia Stampe (RV), Liselott Blixt (DF), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Susanne Zimmer (ALT) and Mette Thiesen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 58 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of area reservations in the Southern Ring 5 transport corridor). Martin Lidegaard (RV), Morten Messersschmidt (DF), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Henning Hyllested (EL), Mette Abildgaard (KF), Susanne Zimmer (ALT) and Mette Thiesen (NB) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 59 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of land reservations in the northern Ring 5 transport corridor). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Danish Parliament a written Climate Policy statement 2019. 5. Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Friday 31 January 2020. I have to inform you that Morten Messerschmidt under No. Questions addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will be answered at the request of the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130124	It is first to the Minister for Finance of Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130133	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for reading the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130135	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister believe that the increase in inequality resulting from the increase in the cigarette tax in the Finance Act is a threat to the cohesion of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130150	No, I don't think so. I believe that we have made a financial law which, on the contrary, strengthens the cohesion of Danish society. This is true because we, among other things, are. invest in our primary school, in our health services and, at the very least, in the welfare that is so essential for us as people to live a safe and good life. It has to be said that the previous government was too concerned about tax relief rather than investing in welfare. Under this government, we're setting a different course. Then, of course, there is the question of cigarettes. There I think we have found a balance in which, on the one hand, we recognise that raising cigarette prices is important for many people, among others. If you have a small income and, for example, you are a national pensioner, or if you belong to a vulnerable group, but on the other hand also know that the price is one of the most important if we are to prevent young people from starting to smoke. That's why I think it's a really sensible landing we've made, where the price increases for the first 2 years to 55 kr. and then to 60 kr. It is not something that undermines the cohesion of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130316	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130319	Thank you for that, although I am a little surprised, because overall, the Finance Act is helping to increase inequality. It helps to increase the Gini coefficient, and we citizens are used to knowing, at least when Social Democracy is in opposition, that increasing inequality threatens cohesion. It's just before the Gini coefficient can't move as much as a decimal before it's completely crazy and we're about to take strong action to ensure the cohesion of Denmark. However, I understand that if we increase inequality by hitting them with small incomes, that is, the poorest ones, who are particularly affected by higher cigarette taxes, then this is obviously a good inequality. This kind of inequality is unproblematic, it does not threaten cohesion, it is good social democratic policy. But if you lower the tax and make everyone in society richer, but especially the richest even richer, then apparently that is not a good inequality. What I'm trying to learn a little bit is when the Social Democrats and the government think inequality is a bad thing. For we could read in Berlingske the other day that the increase in inequality resulting from higher cigarette prices corresponds to the increase in inequality that would occur if the top tax were reduced by 3 percentage points, which would then have the beneficial effect that the supply of labour would increase by a few thousand people and the increase in GDP would increase. There would be a lot of beneficial effects of it. Is it that the government believes that inequality is a fine thing if it just hits the poorest, those with small incomes, while inequality is a terrible thing, the second it makes the rich even richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130449	This government thinks it is a bad idea to create inequality, and that is why we are investing in a Denmark where we are giving everyone better opportunities to get by. One of the most important ways to do this is to invest in our primary school, and that is something we do massively with the financial agreement we have made. By the way, we do this by saying that when we have a health service where there is inequality, there is a need to invest more. Then we also say that there is then a dilemma in the case of cigarette prices. Because when you raise them, it hits some people, but it also means that some others do not start smoking, among other things. young people, and that is what we think is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130534	Thank you. I forgot to say that now we are down to 1⁄2 minutes' speaking time. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130538	One might almost suspect that social democracy and inequality are such that if it is social democracy that is pursuing a policy that increases inequality, then it is fine, but if the bourgeois do the same, then it is a bad thing. Let us take an example in the future, where a bourgeois government lowers the top tax by 3 percentage points and increases inequality as much as this government does with cigarette taxes, but in the same Finance Act, as this government has done, invests in primary and health care. Will the Social Democratic Party cheer it up and praise it, or will one skyrocket that the increase in inequality is harmful?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130611	Now I hope that such a bourgeois government will not come just for the time being. That must be the questioner's excuse. The challenge here is that you can only spend the money once, and what you saw under the previous government was that you would rather spend the money on tax cuts than on welfare. We say very openly and honestly to the Danes that we think it is more important that we have a welfare society in relation to our health care, in relation to our elderly care, in relation to our children and young people's education, and that we invest in it before we start spending money on tax cuts. As I hear the question that is being asked, there is a precondition that money can be spent on one side or the other, and I have to say there, as Minister of Finance, that unfortunately the world is not so good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130654	Alex Vanopslagh for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130656	As Minister of Finance, the Minister is also aware of the great economic room for manoeuvre that exists, which makes it possible to spend money both on increasing public spending and, moreover, on lowering some of the most harmful taxes in Denmark. But now I am a pragmatic man, a pragmatist of God's grace, so maybe we can land somewhere in between where we can agree that what matters to social democracy is to increase public spending and invest in welfare, so to speak, but that we have actually recognised that inequality is completely irrelevant, and in future civil politicians should not listen to this inequality argument when we increase inequality at the level of this government and the way you increase inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130731	I am pleased that the questioner is a pragmatist of God's grace of his own accord. I will look forward to seeing that in practice in the future. However, as I started by saying and have also emphasised in this discussion, social democracy certainly does not think that inequality is a good thing. We fight inequality, and we do so, among other things. by investing in the primary school to give all children equal opportunities. Maybe that's one of the most important things we can do. So I can promise that if you come to see a future bourgeois government that creates inequality, we, as Social Democrats, will fight it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130806	Thank you to the questioner and thank you to the Minister. The question is over. We move on to a question (pm. No. S 318) to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Seligman Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130818	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130822	Is it the Secretary of State's assessment that Denmark's efforts to ensure that other countries receive their own criminal citizens to a greater extent than at present are strengthened by the fact that Denmark itself also takes back its own criminal citizens living in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130837	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130838	Thank you, and thank you to the author. The question falls within the remit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and of the Minister for Justice, which is why it must be addressed to them. However, I can state very clearly in general terms that it is the Government's expectation that all countries will comply with their international obligations, including in matters of this nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130906	So, immediately, the Foreign Minister cannot answer whether it affects Denmark's ability in future to expel criminal citizens for serving in its own country, such as the United Kingdom. when the bookseller from Brønshøj, Said Mansour, was expelled earlier. The Foreign Minister cannot say anything about this, that is to say, about the opportunities being weakened by the fact that Denmark is now saying, in the context of the debate on foreign fighters, that they should just stay abroad, because Denmark will not take Danish citizens home and punish them and allow them to serve in this country. There is no position from the Minister for Foreign Affairs as to whether the Danish double standard will be discovered outside the country's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211130950	Thank you. I would point out that the question does not fall within my remit, but falls within the remit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and for the same reason my ministry has pointed out to the questioner on several occasions that the question should be addressed to the Minister for the Resort area in question, who can answer it. The possibility of obtaining an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration could have been obtained at Question Time on 4 December if it so wished, but the questioner has persistently refused to put the question to the Minister in this area and, on that basis, the questioner must agree not to receive an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131030	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131031	After all, it is a real Christiansborg response, which I am sure those who are watching will also wonder. I would ask the Minister responsible for Denmark's relations with other countries, the Foreign Minister, to address the question of how the fact that you do not want to accept your own citizens for service affects our ability to allow other countries to receive our citizens. Does this mean that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has no attitude whatsoever as to how relations between Denmark and other countries are affected by this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131108	I think, in full respect for my colleagues in the government, that this issue falls within the remit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Minister for Justice, and that is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has repeatedly called on the questioner, Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, to address the question to the ministers whose resort it is, because then you would get a full answer. So I hope you will. I think it is important that there is of course respect for the fact that there are different kinds of resources in the government, that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131144	Then it's mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille with the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131147	I note that it is being asked either to call for a consultation or a question debate with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, so that we can have an answer and not have to run a mess between the three ministers responsible in relation to this. I ask the Foreign Minister now, as responsible for Denmark's relations with other countries, whether the Foreign Minister believes that our options are adversely affected or not, that we ourselves will not take Danish citizens, that is to say our own citizens, to serve in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131224	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131225	I would like to correct something that the questioner claims I should have said. I have neither called for consultation nor for a debate on questions. I have just informed the questioner in silence that if you want an answer, the question should be put to the minister whose authority it is, in this case the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and the Minister for Justice, and I will continue to refer to that. I think it is fair that this is the way it is. Then you will also get answers in the area of the resort as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131255	The question is over. Thank you to the questioner. We'll continue with the Secretary of State, but now it's sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131301	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131302	Thank you. The question is: when the government per. On 28 November 2019 in the midst of the Iranian people's struggle against the Imam dictatorship, has announced Danish accession to INSTEX and thus, contrary to the US recommendation, upholds the nuclear agreement with Iran, will the Foreign Minister explain the decision and assess whether, on the one hand, the Imam dictatorship has succeeded in hammering a security policy wedge between the United States and Europe, on the other hand, whether the decision will strengthen the Imam dictatorship, and whether the timing in the middle of what looks like a civil war is optimal? I'm sorry about the awkward question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131351	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131352	Thank you to the author, Søren Espersen, for asking the question, and he does not need to apologise for the wordings. I understand what is being asked. As I have stressed on several occasions, I am seriously concerned about the way in which the Iranian authorities deal with popular protests. As I have announced publicly, it is essential that the civil liberties of peaceful demonstrators be protected. This applies, for example, to freedom of expression and assembly. We have also stressed the concerns of the Iranian authorities directly, just as we have stressed the need for the authorities to engage in dialogue with the demonstrators. It goes without saying that Denmark's decision to join INSTEX in no way in any way is a blue stamp of the Iranian authorities' handling of the popular protests. INSTEX is currently primarily intended to facilitate access to humanitarian goods, e.g.: medicines. That is precisely what will benefit the people of Iran who are hard-pressed to say. It has been crucial for Denmark and five other countries to make the decision now, given the increasing pressure on the nuclear agreement. Denmark and Europe have a clear security policy interest in maintaining the nuclear agreement. The agreement is the best way to ensure that Iran does not develop nuclear weapons and its retention can help prevent further escalation in the region. That is why we should also do what we can to preserve the agreement. With the decision to accede to INSTEX, we are showing concrete action, but we are not naive when it comes to Iran. The nuclear agreement is based on control, not on trust, nor does support for INSTEX mean that we are not doing so, as the questioner knows. However, there is no contradiction between support for the nuclear agreement and a critical approach to Iran's other behaviour. It is precisely such a balanced entry into Iran that the government, together with our European partners, stands for.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131600	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131602	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. The issue of a blue stamp is, of course, a question of how it is treated and looked at down there in Iran. I am sure that the demonstrators mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs see it very much as a blue-stamping of the regime when you do such a thing. I am not sure that those deliveries are helping to move very much in relation to their intrigued hatred of the Imam regime, which, of course, I support. Why is it that the United States and Europe view it so differently? Why is it that the United States is sure that there is a violation of these things and that we must therefore close down? How can it be that Israel has the most important task of intelligence to accomplish in that area in the same way knows exactly what is happening around it? The two states that are really inside the intelligence are both warning against this. I am surprised that the European intelligence services then feel that they are better than the two to assess whether or not Iran is complying with its obligations. It was then closed down here, but we must stick to the fact that it was actually the United States that started these negotiations which concluded the agreement with them and which therefore also, when they saw where it was going, withdrew. Europe was actually just on the sidelines from the beginning, but has now taken a leading role and in my optics not for the benefit of the Iranian people who are fighting against the regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131737	In relation to the question, INSTEX has the opportunity, for example, to do so. to open up humanitarian trade with Iran so that the Iranian people, for example, can get medicines that are desperately needed. I think the questioner fully agrees with that. By the way, the United States has similar humanitarian access. They have decided from October to make access for some humanitarian interventions in Iran. In general terms, on the nuclear agreement, we all share the objective of preventing Iran from ever getting nuclear weapons, both Europeans and Americans. We have so different ways of ensuring this, and there we believe in Europe, including France, Germany and the United Kingdom, that maintaining the agreement is one of the best means.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131823	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131826	I certainly believe that the intentions are the best. I just see that Iran has now succeeded in entering into a wedge through what was close cooperation between the United States and the European countries when it started here. It is seen in Tehran in government offices as a huge victory. That this has happened, I think, is incredibly crucial. I do not think the Minister for Foreign Affairs really answered: how can intelligence services view this as differently as they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131856	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131857	It is not Europe that has left the nuclear agreement. After all, the United States has chosen to step out of it. I would therefore like to say that it is important that we maintain the pressure. Because it should be borne in mind that the agreement here is precisely this control element that the IAIA can control in Iran. That's an important part of it. If we do not have a nuclear agreement, we will not be able to check whether Iran is complying with their obligations. So if we all stepped out of it, perhaps the opportunities for Iran would be even greater for the development of nuclear weapons, and none of us would want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131928	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211131929	The possibilities of checking are, of course, very important to me. But whether it has any effect is what you can question. Because it may be as official as possible, and one can come and inspect etc., but there are intelligence people both in the United States and Israel who say that there is a whole lot more going on than what one can necessarily see with the naked eye. That's where I think you go wrong when you kind of start letting the Iranians make that wedge between Europe and the United States. So I think that Danish and European sides should have stayed with the United States on this very, very important issue at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132015	After all, I think it is important that we have the opportunity, through the agreement, to inspect and verify internationally that Iran is fulfilling its obligations. We wouldn't have them if we stepped out of the deal. The second point on which I fully agree with the United States is that Iran's destructive behaviour in the region, their ballistic missile programme and the human rights situation are all challenges that are not covered or resolved through the nuclear agreement but which need to be resolved. There we want to build on the nuclear agreement together with the Americans and put the necessary pressure on Iran to stop this behaviour, namely that they do not have a ballistic missile programme that can threaten us and so on. It's important. We can do that with the Americans, and we are also trying to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132054	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. The question is over. We'll continue with the Secretary of State, and now it's sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132102	Here you go for the reading of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132104	Thank you for that, President. And the question is: how will the government ensure that ISIL prisoners in the Kurdish-controlled camps remain under lockdown as Assad and Russian and Turkish forces are moving into the area right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132117	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132118	Thank you to the questioner for asking the question. I think everyone agrees that ISIL prisoners should stay under lockdown. They pose a threat to Denmark and have turned their backs on us, but the situation in north-east Syria is extremely complex and recent developments have made it even more complicated. With regard to assessments of the security situation in the area, I would like to refer to the risk assessment carried out by the Defence Intelligence Service from 2019, as the questioner is aware. An almost unanimous Parliament has, with the adoption of proposals for adoption No. V-3 clearly stated its position on the Turkish offensive, including its consequences in relation to the problem of foreign warriors. However, as we discussed during the question debate on F 8 on 24 October, we must be honest and say that this government will not solve this problem alone. As you know, neither did the previous government. However, as we also discussed during the debate on the question on 24 October, we are certainly not on our hands. Changing governments have supported the Kurdish-controlled areas through the far too long course of the Syrian conflict with both humanitarian and stabilisation aid. Over the years, we have made significant military contributions to the coalition against ISIL, which has fought alongside the SDF in Syria. At the same time, this government has decided to give further support to North-East Syria following the latest Turkish offensive, and, as you know, this government is also committed to promoting opportunities for local prosecution in the region. If there were easy solutions to these challenges, they would have been solved a long time ago. I think the questioner is aware of that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132258	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132300	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for having the opportunity to ask questions. Unfortunately, we did not have that in the last six previous Wednesdays because of the very busy calendar of the Foreign Minister. So it is nice that we have the opportunity here the seventh time, and I am very, very happy about that, because this is an area that is extremely important. I would like to acknowledge that there are no easy solutions, but we must find a solution. The alternative is, of course, that we can get into a situation where some of these camps might even be attacked by ISIL forces, or that Turkish soldiers who are approaching some of these Kurdish-controlled camps are making the Kurdish forces flee from these camps, so that the prisoners can also escape. So all in all, it is a totally untenable situation in relation to our common desire, which is that these ISIL prisoners should be locked under controlled conditions. That is also why, in the neutral sense, the question is in fact a positive one in terms of what we can do and how the government thereby saw together with allies and jointly with the Kurdish authorities, etc. can make sure these prisoners are still gone. And I know that we are not really doing anything right now, that is, we are not moving the camps; we are not moving the prisoners; we are not having a dialogue with the German authorities that we might be able to go in and make sure that these prisoners will be locked up. On the contrary, we are seeing an Erdogan who, on the part of Turkey, has publicly threatened that these prisoners will be released if the Turkish authorities gain control of them so that they can travel freely as they wish. So this is a safety risk for all of us, not least in view of the situation in Denmark. And that is why I would like to try to pressure the government, in cooperation with the other countries, perhaps to come up with alternative solutions. One example could be to move some of the prisoners to e.g. the Kurdish-controlled areas of Iraq. As far as I know, the local Kurdish authorities in Iraq are interested in such a solution if the economic opportunities are also available. All in all, I would like to say that a solution needs to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132501	Then the Minister has an answer in 30 minutes. No, I meant 30 seconds or something would go wrong. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132509	Thank you, President. I would have liked to have had 30 minutes, because this is actually a complex issue, so we could have spent that on it. First of all, I would like to thank you for the receipt that, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I am busy representing Denmark's interests at the level of the questioner. The other thing is, compared to what we do with these prisoners, I also mentioned that it's complex. One of the things we work hard for is to see if we can get a locally anchored prosecution of these people. The crimes and abuses they have committed are completely unforgivable and must have a consequence. That is why we need to work closely together to ensure that these people come behind bars, and we do so by looking at local prosecutions, and that is one of the things Denmark is involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132553	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132555	I think that is what is called a non-answer, not least in view of the fact that the Minister has just pointed out what is the minister's resort and not the minister's resort. I have, of course, been told very clearly that, in relation to how we establish an international court, this is the Justice Minister's area of responsibility. That is why my next question is in that area. But I am glad that the Minister himself opens this up, because then I can assume that the Minister can answer a question as to how far one is in the process of establishing an international court. I think it is extremely important that we get clarification now, and it is also in relation to securing these local prisons. So I am glad that the Foreign Minister himself thinks it is in the Minister's area. That is why, of course, it will be clear that we can also have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132636	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132637	After all, it is good that the Minister for Justice is next in the Chamber to answer questions from the questioner. There you can have a debate with the relevant Resort Minister. I think that is very important. I would just like to say that I know that the questioner, as I am very concerned about what we are doing about this. After all, this is a serious and complex problem that we are facing. These foreign fighters are a huge threat, and we have to deal with that together. That is also what I am appealing to. I think that when Denmark stands together around these things, we have a great influence..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132711	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132713	It wasn't yours that started the whole discussion about it. It was the Minister himself who opened the door, which apparently was closed again. Fair enough with that, I'll take it with the Attorney General. But that leads back to the fact that we still haven't gone one step further in terms of how we're gonna make sure these prisoners will still be locked up. That is why I can only appeal strongly to the government to take hold of its allies, to grab hold of the Kurdish authorities both in Syria and Iraq and to have a lasting solution, because the alternative is that some of them can escape, and that will be terrible for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132743	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132744	If, for example, the questioner is asking. Thinking of direct financial support for detention facilities, this is linked to a wide range of difficult legal and practical challenges which, if necessary, will require further investigation. Just to show just how complex it is, I can say that there are challenges in international law and, with the Kurds' rapprochement with the Assad regime, we can quickly find ourselves in a situation where we finance facilities that will come under Assad's control. So there are a lot of questions. The questioner therefore knows that it is not that simple, but the questioner also knows that the government is working hard to find a solution, among other things. in relation to ensuring regionally anchored prosecution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132823	The question is over. We thank the Secretary of State. We'll continue with sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen asking, but now it's for the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132832	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132833	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister think that the international court is sufficiently far to be established for the ISIL terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132841	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211132843	Thank you for the question. My position on the prosecution of foreign warriors is clear: the foreign warriors are undesirable in Denmark and they should be prosecuted where their actions have been committed. That is why, as you know, the government has intensified its efforts to strengthen, together with other countries, the opportunities for prosecution locally in the region. Following the government's accession, Denmark has thus joined a group of like-minded European countries working actively to investigate and provide concrete opportunities for local prosecution of foreign fighters. The logical question is then, of course, and I am sure that the questioner has just on his tongue whether or not we are in the finish line. No, we certainly are not. Is this gonna take a long time? It must be assumed that it probably does, partly because it is a difficult political process and partly because the establishment of local prosecution is also a complex exercise in law. Should this stop us from going ahead with the work because it even looks extremely difficult? No, of course not. That is the right thing to do, and that is why it is being worked hard on. We are sitting at the table where we are working to find an opportunity for a local court case with the many foreign fighters who came from Europe and who, after all, ravaged the region. There are very good reasons why we are following this trail and persecuting it intensively, but it is by no means something that a small country can do alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133027	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133029	Thank you. I acknowledge one hundred percent that this is a difficult issue • also a problem that started under the previous government, where a solution was sought. But it has to be seen in the light of the previous question, namely that there is also a security risk in these prison camps with ISIL terrorists, and that is why we need to find a solution, because the alternative is bad. That's why I'm really interested in what kind of clue you're following. Is it a UN trail where you have to do some kind of international court, what you have had before in the form of war criminal courts and the like, or is it a local court, for example. in Iraq, as has been the case in various articles in the world press, for example. in the Kurdish region of Iraq, or what exactly are we aiming for? No matter what, I acknowledge that it may take time, but we should at least soon be in gear, so to speak, and therefore it might be interesting to hear a little about what kind of track you are following. In relation to what should come afterwards, it is also interesting, because hopefully many of these people will also be sentenced and therefore also have to go to prison in some way, and I think the government is 100% in agreement with the Left that these people should also be in a prison in the local area. Is this also something that is already well under way to try to find a host nation for, and are there, should we say, an economic overview of whether there will be different countries behind it financially? All in all, we are in any case very interested in hearing what the status is in the two areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133206	Now the questioner said earlier, when he had the opportunity to ask the Foreign Minister, that the answer was slightly unclear. I think I can beat the Minister for Foreign Affairs with many lengths to reply unclearly in the following, because there is a need for confidentiality, but what I can say is that we have concrete cooperation with a number of countries to establish a court and we have a look at specific areas for the establishment of courts. A good dialogue is under way, but I cannot say what economic implications it may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133240	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133241	I recognise clearly if there are reasons for confidentiality, and then we can take it up in the Foreign Policy Name, and I will of course do so there. Then maybe we can talk about the timetable. Is it within a 3-year horizon, within a 1-year horizon, that is, how far are we in the process, in relation to what a possible host nation might say yes to? It might also be interesting to ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133310	In fact, I would like to thank the honourable Member for recognising that a good forum is essentially in the area of foreign policy. I have, of course, worked with the questioner also when I used to be a foreign policy rapporteur, and I therefore know how well the questioner knows about foreign policy matters and therefore will not be surprised that the answer to the timetable is that it is incredibly difficult to assess how long it will take.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133337	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133339	Thank you for these answers, you might say. We recognise that this is something that is really, really difficult, but at least it is something that we want to be in dialogue with the government about. So let us continue the dialogue in the Foreign Policy Name where we can do it in a confidential space. We'd be happy to take that on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133353	Does that require any reply from the Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133356	Now that I have 27 minutes, hey, seconds available, I would just like to sign for the Left and not least Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen's approach to the matter here. I am sure that when we achieve something, we are totally dependent on the Left too to support and participate in the work that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133417	Then the Minister will have six seconds for another good time. We thank the Minister for Justice and we thank him. Michael Aastrup Jensen. We go further and the next few questions are to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior by Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133430	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133432	Thank you. How does the Minister intend to ensure the continued operation of Danish International Adoption, also abbreviated DIA, in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133447	I'm gonna have to jump over to the right chair. With the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, 2,1 million was allocated. kr. as an additional operating grant to the adoption-shaping organisation DIA, let's just call it this in the Chamber, in 2019 and 2020. 1 million was also allocated. kr. to conduct a study on how the communication of children to international adoption in Denmark can be carried out in an economically sustainable way. The 2.1 million. kr. is dedicated to supporting the operation of DIA, while examining how to create an economically sustainable dissemination structure in the future. 1.8 million kr. of this money is going to cover DIA's deficit by 2020. That grant is, I suppose, a supplement to the ordinary annual operating grant of 2 million. DKK received by the organisation since the introduction of a new adoption system in 2016. The latest boost has been launched because significant changes in the adoption area had internationally affected the economic basis for the operation of DIA, and forecasts showed that the organisation for 2019 would have an increasing deficit. The assessment was, and continues to be, that it is necessary to change the structure of the communication task within the adoption area within a few years, as otherwise it is not possible to offer the provision of children for adoption thereafter. The Ankestyrelsen will hand over to me before Christmas holidays the study of what options there are. I expect that the study will also include an assessment of what is needed to make dissemination through DIA economically sustainable.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133623	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133625	Thank you. It was the case that I saw the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and also Deputy Director Merete Pantmann of the Ankestyrelsen on TV here a few days ago, and I think it was a great surprise that it had to be said by DIA that it was in this incredibly pressured financial situation and, for that matter, also had to close the application for adoption because of a lack of financial security. I wonder whether perhaps the Minister could confirm that DIA has already, in the past, even several times, even after 2018, been in to give some clear warnings about this economic development. It is both delivered to the Danish Agency of Appeal and also to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133725	It is true that it cannot be claimed that any of us here in the Folketing can be surprised that there are challenges with the area of communication in terms of international adoption. There was the agreement in the pool of rates last year, when we took it upon ourselves to finance it. It is, after all, more than a doubling of the operating subsidy to which we have set aside money. That is to say, I think we have fully recognised that there were economic challenges and also taken that responsibility upon us. And we have also set aside 1 million. kr. I would also like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to take a decision on this matter in the near future. We may just have to... now the President is already getting up, but I will be happy to elaborate in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133801	That's because we've come to 30 seconds, 1⁄2 minutes. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133806	Thank you. I would just like briefly to hear the Minister's comments on the risk that DIA might simply have to start decommissioning because the financial basis is bad here from 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133828	As I have said, we have secured more than a doubling of their operating grants, which is why we also need this basic analysis. Because when we find ourselves in a situation where there is a decrease in the number of both international adoptions, but also of Danes who want it, and then such a sharp increase in the price, then it is not sustainable. That is why we need to look at how we can do things differently in the future. As I have said, I am now waiting for the report by the Ankestyrelsen, which I hope to receive before Christmas holidays, and I will of course also involve the Danish Parliament in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133853	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133855	Finally, I would like to ask whether the Minister might perhaps be able to put into words the balance in terms of increasing supervision, in other words possibly increasing supervision in this area, while at the same time, unfortunately, we can say that fewer and fewer people want to adopt children from abroad, even though there are a lot of people who might need a new home. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133922	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133923	Well, we look into the fact that there are many things at stake. Fortunately, there are more and more countries where children do not need to be given up for adoption, because even with their own social efforts and perhaps also efforts in relation to family planning, we can actually deal with it here. And then there is just a falling demand in Denmark for international adoption. The two things, together with the fact that costs are growing as they are, in DIA, mean that we have to find a different starting point. We cannot continue to put money on top of a system that serves fewer and fewer Danes. In any case, I do not think we can justify this to taxpayers in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211133958	The question is over. We shall continue with the Minister and also with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134006	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134007	Thank you. What comments has the Minister made on DR's article •Mads has not seen his three-year-old son for 52 days: •I feel lost on 4 December 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134019	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134021	As I am also quoted in the article here about Mads, it is unfortunate that a new system was created to look after the children and spare them the difficult divorces, right now seems to be doing the opposite. It is a very difficult situation which Mads and his son, as you can read in the press, and many other families are currently in, and that is simply not good enough. The intention behind the new system negotiated under the previous government is that we should take better care of the children in the difficult divorces. However, it is a reform that was born with severe under-funding. That is why we have set aside 104 million in the latest Finance Act, our first Finance Act. kr. extra, so wait doesn't just keep growing and growing. It is also important to me, following on from saying that even with the new 104 million. kr., which we add to, we will look into for a long time, i.e. probably a whole year yet, when waiting times will continue to grow. It's not expected to peak until next year at this time. It is deeply unsatisfactory, it is very unhappy. And I would also like to say that I have listened to the idea that there may be measures in the reform that do not work as intended. That is why, before Christmas, I have called the stakeholders in this area to a meeting with me to hear their assessment so far on the rather limited basis that we have, since the reform has worked so short and been so underturned due to a lack of economy, but to continue to talk in this early phase of the reform and to find out whether some adjustments need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134201	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134202	Thank you. I know that it is really complex and also a terrible situation we are in, where there is so much waiting time and, unfortunately, very many families who are affected by it. I would like to try to dig down a single problem, namely that a parent with a right of residence, as it is today, can actually move across the country with his child without the child's other parent being able to prevent it. It is because I have received some inquiries, especially in these times, when there is a long waiting time, that there are fathers who are in the situation that they do not actually have contact with their children, because the mother may have moved from the metropolitan area to North Jutland and the distance between parents has thus become so long. In particular, I can see that fathers are addressing the issue and drawing attention to it. Is this something we could somehow look at to see if we should change anything here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134313	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134316	I think I will refrain from going into specific details of the individual elements of the major divorce reform here, too, before having talked to the actors in this area. However, the problem you raise there corresponds to the one that Mads, mentioned in that article, is experiencing. Of course, we must always be careful to stand and discuss individual cases in the Parliamentary Chamber. It is just to say that, as I understand it, there is the possibility in the Family Court House that you can act more quickly if you need it in relation to having contact-preservation at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134349	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134350	Now I was not the rapporteur when the whole family business was being negotiated. But I know that, among other things. are some of our neighbouring countries, which have other guidelines on how far a parent must move away and take the child with him, so that the other parent can actually meet with the child. Is the Minister aware of what our neighbouring countries are actually doing in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134416	No, I am not aware of what our neighbouring countries are doing, just as I was not part of the actual course of negotiations, as was the rapporteur. So I'd better not talk about that. But please ask a written question, and we will be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134428	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134430	But then I'm gonna end up saying that I'm gonna do it. Because I think there is, in fact, a problem here that we should perhaps look at more closely. I have been informed that it is something about people, among other things. in Norway and Sweden have some distance, one max. must move, unless you agree between the parents that it's okay. However, I can put some further questions to the Minister and hopefully get some good answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134458	For me, it is absolutely crucial that we do not make any adjustments that compromise with what was the intention behind the system that we should take better care of the children in the difficult divorces and that we should also like to have a divorce system that is conflict-limiting and gives parents in the difficult divorce cases better tools to ensure that there are not too many conflicts that are growing. Because we know how much it also means to whether a child has a safe life, whether there are those conflicts. So I have said that I have an open mind in relation to possible adjustments, but I do not want to compromise. We need to take care of the children as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134532	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior, and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen. The question is over. We go further, but now it is to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Gender Equality, and the question is by Mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134543	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134544	Thank you. What is the government's position on the implementation of this 2 billion-dollar financing? kr. over 10 years with 200 million. kr. This is what is mentioned on page 14 of the 2020 Finance Act and, above all, where should the money come from, in relation to the Prime Minister's saying that Denmark must continue to be an agricultural country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134613	Thank you for the question. You mentioned 200 million. kr. is, after all, part of the financial law agreement for 2020, which means that the money will be provided by means of the Finance Act. These are new funds for the region. As the agreement also states, the parties to the agreement will meet here at the beginning of 2020 with a view to launching the implementation as soon as possible. So I can't tell you more about the coinage at this point, but most people agree that the removal of carbon-rich low-level soils is a very good idea in relation to the climate effort, and of course the government is. An introduction of this kind is done against compensation, which means that farmers are being compensated, and it does not therefore shake the fact that Denmark can remain an agricultural country. There is still plenty of room for that. Of course, I would also just like to remind the questioner that agriculture itself, together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, has recommended that land be taken out precisely and extensive approx. 100,000 ha.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134728	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134730	Thank you. To extract carbon - rich low - bottom soil and also the lower bogland, I think everyone agrees. That is what we in the Left think. We also co-created with both S and V and several lots in the blue camp pilot project with multifunctional land distribution targets, which was the starting point for it. So there's full support for it. It is also the case, as the agreement says, that the government, the Finance Parties, will be set aside for 2 billion. kr., 10 times 200 million. kr., and one is immediately led to believe that then the money has been dropped from the Treasury and committed. That is probably not quite what is happening, because we must try to get the money fully in place, whether there is in it that the money is really dropped off, so that the money is ready and ready. Now it is usually only for one year at a time that you make a Finance Act plus a few years of estimates. Or is it kind of just an agreement that you have to talk to each other and take a closer look at it? So you might ask: what exactly is the answer to it? Is the money ready on the table with the minister? Or should that money be found first?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134845	It is clear that when you place them on a financial law, there is money. So they're just going to work as soon as possible. As the rapporteur himself pointed out, we have more than 200 million. DKK, which is in 2020 to take out land, in a broad circle of lots made an agreement to already boost the land distribution for 150 million. kr. So that means that, in relation to the expenditure for 2020, we are at 350 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134919	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134921	In other words, when the Minister says that the money is ready, there must be an agreement between the Finance Bill parties on where the money should come from. Because that is not evident from the financial law text that has been published so far. It just says that the money should be dropped by implied over the next 10 years. But it doesn't say where the money is supposed to come from, so let's get it straight. Is the money ready? Can the Minister guarantee that there will be no further negotiations on where the money will come from? It's in place. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211134954	I can only say that the money is set aside in the Finance Act. That is to say, the rapporteur knows very well that when you put together a budget law there are some expenditure and there are some revenue. After all, the rapporteur can make sure of himself by reading in the Finance Act where the revenue comes from. So one of the costs is this 200 million. kr. in 2020, which we can, of course, start using from the start of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135024	Sir. Erling Bonnesen for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135025	That means that there should be no negotiations to take money from, for example. agricultural aid or from elsewhere. The money is ready and delivered in other ways, I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135036	As I said in my introduction, these are new funds which have been found in the Finance Act. It is not EU funds. It is not money that comes from EU agricultural aid. No, these are new good means, which this government has managed to prioritize together with its support parties, for this very good purpose in the removal of low-bottom soils.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135057	The question is closed. We shall continue with the Minister and also with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135103	Here you go for the reading of the question, Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135104	Thank you. And it says: what is the government's attitude to ensuring and improving the agricultural competitive situation and conditions, in relation to the Prime Minister's saying that Denmark must continue to be an agricultural country, and also in relation to the financing of carbon-rich low-bottom land as mentioned on page 14 of the Finance Act, which we have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135129	It is important for me to stress that the removal of these low-level soils does not conflict with the fact that agriculture has good competitive power, and I think the industry itself agrees with this. That is where they have proposed, together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association itself, that 100 000 hectares of low-level soils be taken out. Moreover, I can say that the government generally works to ensure the best possible framework conditions for agriculture. For example: I would like to mention that I have just set up a group of experts on the economy of the agricultural industry, which has a particular focus on the debt situation of agriculture and also on how the economic and financial challenges of agriculture can be reduced and improved in the future. In addition, it is essential for the agricultural economy that environmental requirements can also be met as cost-effectively as possible and that administration and control are created as effective and flexible as possible. After all, we are constantly working on this as a government, and we are also working on developing new and cost-effective instruments for agriculture, and here I am able, among other things, to do so. mention the pilot experiment on precision farming, which is intended to give the farmer much more flexibility. So in many ways we work to create the best framework for good Danish agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135257	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135259	First of all, a receipt that the Minister has set up the group of experts to look at, we can say the big debt hump of agriculture. After all, the agreement that we then made together has also achieved a result, and so we in the Left are looking forward to it, that is to say that we will hopefully be able to follow it up together. Because it is incredibly important that there is a clear focus on the fact that the business community and in this situation the conditions of competition in agriculture should not, at least in the first place, be impaired and should preferably also be improved. And why is that? Yes, because when we see a number of other countries that we are competing with here from Denmark we do not have to go further than Germany and the Netherlands and France, they are also looking after and trying to improve their competitive conditions in order to ensure not only their domestic food supply but also the exports they are aiming for. And since we are a big country, we must call it an export-oriented country, it is also important that we keep up with it. Otherwise, it is clear that the others are running faster, and then we also have to run faster. So a follow-up to that is kind of fine. So, following on from this: if the Minister's position is, and can the Minister confirm that when we are going to have the various negotiations in the various areas, then there must certainly not be a deterioration in the conditions of agriculture and, above all, there must be an improvement, particularly in the area of agriculture. The one with precision farming?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135416	Well for the government here it is crucial that Denmark remains a good and sustainable agricultural country. Agriculture has already delivered this on a number of parameters. We must continue to deliver this, and I am absolutely convinced that, in the future, it will be a competitive parameter for agriculture that we will continue to develop in a green and sustainable direction. For that is what the citizens and consumers are asking for, and that is ultimately the demand on which agriculture must also live.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135447	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135448	Thank you. But I would like to say that we take note of that, and I am glad that we can then, we can then say, respond calmly to some of those who are asking, those who are out selling all our agri-foods around the country. There are times when they have told us that whether it is red or blue governments, you are good at getting out and selling the goods, but that they could be worried about whether we had enough on the shelves here at home. And there we can at least understand that this is the position of the Social Democratic Party, even though it may be a little discredited for some of the debates we have here at home. We still need to get enough food on the shelves at home, not only for our own consumers, but also for export-oriented.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135531	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135534	There should be no doubt about that, and I say this quite clearly, as Minister for Food, that we want and want Danish agriculture. It is important for Denmark, it is a large export income that helps to finance our welfare society, and it means that we can feed ourselves, but also contribute to feeding the rest of the world in an efficient, but also sustainable way. This is a priority, and I hope that we can have broad political agreement and cooperation on this in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135606	Erling Bonnesen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135608	Thank you. Well, that kind of sounds good. Then we can say: how does the Minister think that this is related, for example, to what he says? the advance of catch crops, which then exactly gives a lot of extra trouble and complications for farmers out there in the day-to-day? Perhaps some even need to break up their field plans and plow up some of the winter crops that they have. This is not exactly the case, so I would urge the Minister to try to consider once again whether this is the way to go about what is going on on on the post-harvest crops.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135643	I think the questioner is a little out of his question, which has been put to me here today. But I can only repeat what I have said, namely that this government wants Danish agriculture and we want to work with Danish agriculture to ensure a good, strong, viable and sustainable business in the future. Denmark needs this, the world needs it, and one of the things there is, among other things, that agriculture also meets its environmental requirements. And the government will also keep agriculture up to that in good cooperation, I hope.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135715	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen, and thank you to the Minister for Food, Fisheries and Equal Opportunities. The next question is to the Minister for Transport by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135725	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135727	Thank you, sir. President. The question is this: is the Minister satisfied with the fact that no one crown has been allocated to new road infrastructure projects in the 2020 Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135740	Thank you for the question. Since I took office as Minister for Transport, I have clearly stated that it is my ambition to conclude a broad and long-term agreement on new investments in infrastructure, because investments in infrastructure must be seen in context and require a stable and long-term perspective, and this is now guaranteed, I think, best by establishing such investments in broad conciliation in the Folketing, so that we guarantee continuity, even if the government should change over the next ten-year period. It is my ambition that a future infrastructure agreement should reflect a coherent plan for the next 10 years of infrastructure investment, and I look forward very much to discussing new investments in infrastructure, including in the road network, and also with the questioner and with the other transport rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament, in the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135835	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135837	Thank you for your answer. I welcome the Minister's words about a broad agreement. We share that view in the Left. For us, it is crucial that mobility in Denmark is at its top. We should not waste the money and time of citizens and companies, by keeping them in queues on the roads, literally, and for many years the majority of traffic billions have gone to the railroad because it has been needed, and that is, even if 90%. of the traffic work actually takes place on the roads. After all, this creates an imbalance which has led to congestion and problems of accessibility, and I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister agrees that there is a need for massive investment in the road network up to 2030. And then I have to say that back in the election campaign in May and June there were a great many Social Democratic candidates who, to my delight, went around talking a lot about road projects, but after the elections the government has not talked much about road projects. What is the Minister's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211135932	Last week I was out talking a little about some Funen highway where I, among other things. highlighted some of the benefits of travel time gains which have been quite considerable. So it is certainly not because I have refrained from commenting on roads. In fact, I have also been quite explicit about the fact that I want to make broad agreements, even when it comes to the roads, and that is why I think it is appropriate to say here that it is not the case that the government had said in advance that there should be road infrastructure investments in the Finance Act; on the contrary, we have just said that this is something that lies in a future infrastructure plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140008	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140009	Praise the Minister for going out, and I must also acknowledge that the Minister has been to Viborg and seen on roads. But it was more like the general government I was thinking of. However, I would like to know whether the Minister can confirm that the government's support party Enhedslisten strongly rejects investing in better roads, particularly in better motorways, and that in the famous understanding paper on bicycle paths and public transport, which is very good, there is not a single word about roads. What are the Minister's comments on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140041	As I said, I expect both roads and bicycles and public transport to be invested in a future infrastructure agreement to promote mobility in Denmark. It is to use a good Jysk expression just as hard to queue in an electric car or a hydrogen car for that matter, as it is in a diesel or petrol car, and therefore there is also a need to look at the presence in the broadest possible perspective and also the interaction between modes of transport. I think that should naturally be part of a very, very broad political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140119	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140120	Yes, and that naturally brings me to the question that several parties in the red bloc talk a lot about roads like black, blackest black and harmful to the climate. But assuming that we get into a situation where the car park is green that is what the goal of all parties in the Danish Parliament will not the Minister admit that the roads of the future are green and that it is therefore nonsense when you keep talking about roads like black?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140148	I can at least say that next year it will be the case that the asphalt being laid on state roads will be much more climate-friendly, and this is something that the author's party has also helped to ensure, because we have jointly ensured the development of green asphalt, that is to say asphalt, which both reduces the climate footprint, but also reduces noise. That is why it is also important to continue working on what are literally green roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140217	The question is over. But we will continue with the Minister of Transport and also with Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140223	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140224	Thank you, sir. President. Does the Minister believe that it contributes to a better-balanced Denmark, that there is not one krone set aside for new road infrastructure projects in the 2020 Finance Act, and therefore there is no prospect of new investment in the roads around Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140241	First of all, thank you for the question. It would mean that the government did not have a plan to draw up an infrastructure investment plan over a 10-year period, if nothing had to be done in this area, and it has always been our intention, as I said, that the part dealing with infrastructure should take place after a financial agreement had been concluded. In any case, it is the case that a better-balanced Denmark is on several legs, and it is clear that investment in infrastructure is one of those legs. Another leg is also to ensure public transport, and a third leg is, for example, to ensure that you can invest in bicycle infrastructure and deslike. That is why I am glad that there are, among other things, some of them. funds are secured for example for a bicycle pool, for improving public transport and also green buses. There is no mistake about the fact that green buses are not only something that you introduce in big cities; as recently as Sunday 48 new green buses were presented in Copenhagen by the municipalities of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg.But if you go to the country, you will also find them in Roskilde, and the municipality of Sønderborg has converted their 44 buses to green buses. So public transport and the green are also about a Denmark in balance, and if we talk about the green buses in the South Jutland, it is also very much connected with some of the agricultural production that is there. When you make biogas buses, it is among other things. because of the high level of pig production in the area, biogas is precisely available. So I think that the issue of a Denmark in balance is about many issues. It is also clear that I would like to emphasise this once again when we have to make an infrastructure investment plan, so of course we also have to think about the balance in Denmark, both when it comes to public transport and when it comes to the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140438	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140440	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister mentions biogas as an interesting propellant in heavy transport. After all, it is one of the means to get the diesel fuel out of buses and lorries. For the Left, it is important that we here at Christiansborg work purposefully for a coherent Denmark • it requires some investment in roads and, of course, also in public traffic, bike paths and other things that the Minister mentions and we welcome the fact that we have a strong capital, which is a locomotive for the whole of Denmark, and which just draws. But we have to get the wagons, that is to say the province, on the Danish train, and investment in infrastructure is one of the things we can do to get a coherent Denmark in better balance. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister agrees that in many parts of Denmark people are completely dependent on cars and trucks, because there is no access to railways and other comprehensive public transport, and that the roads are thus the traffic veins that bind the country together and ensure juice and power in the Danish body. If so, would the Minister not agree that if we do not get our act together and get our investment in better roads, it will twist Denmark even more awkwardly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140548	After all, both better roads and better public transport must be invested, and it is not the case that one excludes the other. In fact, it is also the case that part of public transport uses the roads. For example, buses must also be able to drive on the roads. And I can only confirm that if you live in the province I live in the province, in a small village you can only make it stick together if you also have access to your own car, for example. Of course, it should also be a green car. The positive news is that, fortunately, it can also be charged in, for example, the village I live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140627	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140628	I agree that investments must be made both in the capital and in the province. It is not such a punk war that we are about to have between the capital and the province. On the contrary, but these are different solutions to different situations that we need to find. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister can mention some of the road projects in the Blue Transport Agreement of March, which is now not going to happen because there is no majority for them. Are there any of the road projects in the agreement that the Minister does not want to implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140656	I can only think of one that I can at least say in advance that the government does not think we should continue to work on, and that has also been made clear by the fact that it has been taken out of the pre-project by a vvm study, and that is the bypass of Mariager. But otherwise we have not rejected individual projects in advance. On the contrary, we want to go to a negotiating table with as open a mind as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140727-2	That sounds good, but it also needs money on the table, which is why I would like to ask the Minister's expectations of the investment framework that we will eventually have on the table before we negotiate. After all, the previous government found in the vicinity of DKK 65 billion, a total of 112 billion. kr. with the money that was passed over. Is it the Minister's expectation that we can find at least that amount for a framework, so that, among other things, we can. can get rid of all these many road projects that are absolutely intrusive around the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140757	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140759	The size of the investment framework can only be discussed further as we approach the negotiations. But of course it is also clear that I have an expectation that the parties that will be involved in the discussions will also have an interest in trying to help find possible additional funding, and we will have to return to that when we come to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140824	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. We'll continue with the Minister of Transport, but now it's sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, a questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140831	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140832	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's view that a State-owned company such as PostNord is carrying out offensive competition on the Danish market for the transport of piece goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211140845	I just had to find the papers for the right question. Now we're there. In general, I would say that all the companies that PostNord operates in both Denmark and Sweden are in competitive markets. In the case of Denmark, this is due to the fact that the Danish Parliament decided in 2010 that the postal market should be fully liberalised from 1 January 2011 and, furthermore, the Danish Parliament has decided that Post Danmark A/S should be operated commercially. This follows from the Act on Post Danmark A/S. The carriage of goods for hire or reward is therefore also a free occupation. As in the postal sector, there are a number of economic and vandal requirements to be met by a company in the field of transport of goods for hire and reward, and Post Danmark A/S must also meet these requirements. In concrete terms, I understand that PostNord has at present carried out a conversion to overcome the difficulties experienced in this area in relation to a deficit of what is called PostNord Logistics A/S, a subsidiary of the PostNord Group. That is of course inappropriate, because it should not be the case that you have a company of the kind that is run with losses. I have recently proposed that we invite a representative from PostNord Logistics A/S to a meeting so that the postal service can get an information on the status of the change currently under way. I am, of course, very aware of the concerns not only of the questioner, but also of others who work with the area in the Folketing, and this must of course be fully explained.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141043	Here you go, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141044	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What worries me, of course, who asks, but as the Minister also says a lot of others, is that at the same time as we can read in the newspaper how true it is, I don't know, but you can at least read it on the news, and now we have to see what is in the case of PostNord having a huge deficit and going into having it covered, then a section is built up for piece goods, which also makes losses. You might normally say that you have to get your own basic business under control before you start to think of something else. That is why it is also true that the reports we have received in the Committee on Transport from people around us are puzzling. And that is why I would like to say straight away that I am glad that the Minister is saying that we need one from PostNord Logistics A/S so that we can discuss it with them. But we are told that we are undercutting, or that we have at least some prices for services far below what others can offer. It may, of course, be because PostNord is very, very talented, but of course there are also some who can say that since PostNord has a deficit on their primary activities, one can wonder whether they can now be so skilled that they can make a profit on something by offering prices far below those of others. It is in this light that I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is also concerned. It is said that there must be waterproof bulkheads between them, but at the same time it has to be said that if a company has different departments, some sources of funding will probably look at them equally and say that it is under one that they assess them. Then there is also what the Minister has said, that we will have an in-depth analysis of whether there are any activities here, which are actually per year. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141241	It is the case that discussions are currently taking place in the postal services circle, and I do not want to go into anything that is going on. However, I can confirm that the desire to analyse these elements has also been raised by the author's party, which is why we will of course look at this. Firstly, I understand the concern and, secondly, I would also like to be sure that in the postal services circle we can literally get to the bottom of the question and there will probably also be confidential information between what the postal services should be presented to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141319	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141320	Now we do not know where it ends, but I will say immediately, and I will send that receipt to the Minister that I am glad that the Minister is taking it so seriously here. I have to say that when I look at the fact that there will also be ordinary small road hauliers around the country who are facing a competition which may be due to something other than just a good business offer, I think it is worrying if we do not do something about it. I would just like to ask the Minister if there is a timetable for this, i.e. when you intend to go in and look at the Logistics Department.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141352	That work has actually begun, and the parties in the postal services have nodded to it earlier today. I do not want to go into the details of when it will be ready, because there are also negotiations on this, and I would, of course, like to respect that. However, I would just like to point out that, of course, it is the author's party that has expressed a legitimate concern about this, and many other parties have also done so, which is why this is, of course, something that needs to be drilled out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141426	Hans Christian Schmidt for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141428	Then it is just left for me to ask whether the Minister is prepared to come in a closed consultation in the Transport Committee closed, because I think we will both try to find a solution here where we could try to discuss both the experiences and what we hear about and what opportunities there are. But it must be under the auspices of the Committee on Transport, because then I would like to call for such closed consultations. But I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister also sees that this could be a way of resolving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141455	That could certainly be relevant. I think it might be a good idea for the analysis that has been requested from the postal services circle to be carried out, but we can have further correspondence on that. I am always happy to arrange for consultation, of course, and also to spread the knowledge that exists in the postal services circle to the wider circle, bearing in mind, of course, that there may be market-sensitive and confidential information in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141526	Thank you, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt. The question is over. We'll continue with the Minister of Transport, but now it's sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141533	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141535	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is an indication of good planning (if appropriate process) not to involve the postal services in good time before the end of the political agreement on universal service?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141548	One can, of course, argue that very good planning had meant that a political agreement had been reached on the post as early as spring 2019, so that we could have implemented the necessary legislation this autumn before the end of the year. But that would be unnecessarily polemical, I think, because there may be many different reasons why the previous government did not take the initiative. In any case, it is my responsibility to ensure that we negotiate a new postal agreement, which is why I am also happy to assume responsibility for the fact that the progress that has been made now has been a little complicated and messy, but also for the fact that we are discussing in the postal services how we deal with and carry out further analyses. I would like to sign for the participation of the author's party in that work too, both with the participation of the party's transport rapporteur and the party's financial rapporteur, very constructively, in relation to what needs to be analysed in order to be able to make a solution that is more permanent. It is also clear that, once the analyses have been completed, negotiations will have to be convened on how we will then make a more concrete defence settlement. The precise timing of this will also depend on the discussions we are currently having in the postal services. And since we are currently discussing these matters, I am not going to go into the expected timeframes in relation to them. I would like the whole conciliation circle's support for this before I make my point. However, it is clear that the extensive analyses to be carried out cannot be completed on this side of the turn of the year, and that is why the government's proposal has also been to make a temporary extension of PostNord's universal service, so that we can have a calm mind and start negotiations at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141801	Sir. Martin Geertsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141802	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Now, like the Minister, I shall try not to be unnecessarily polemical, but if I am, I hope the Minister will forgive me. But in any case, we in the Left are a little too sorry that the Minister is bringing an act into the Committee on Finance and, as I understand it, halfway along the way from another meeting. It is true that such an act solves PostNord's current problem, but in my view it is certainly not such a real follow-up to an agreement which will end at the end of the year, but which the Minister somewhere envisages in fact extending by six months. It has not been so long since PostNord has, as far as I remember, been added just in the vicinity of 1.5 billion, not more than a few years ago. kr. with a view to ensuring profitability, once the universal service has been halved, despite the smaller volumes of letters. With the addition of what we can at least read in the newspaper is approx. 100 million kr., PostNord is then maintained on the Finance Act, and this is not quite in keeping with the agreement reached. In any case, I would like to hear from the Minister what has actually gone wrong in this process. It would be natural if, once again, we were faced with an economic challenge in relation to PostNord, so as to have more systematically and formally called in the postal services to discuss what is in the way of the whole world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211141944	I cannot and will not comment on the content of a confidential file, despite the fact that there may be parts of this confidential file which may have leaked to the press, with the risk that the state's negotiating position will deteriorate. But I can at least say that the discussions we have at the moment are just going on a temporary basis. It's not a solution. It is not a solution to make a temporary extension of the universal postal service. It is only a question of giving us the time necessary to be able to carry out the analyses that not only the government and our support parties want, but which are also sought by the author's own party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142027	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142028	And we will be discussing the future in just two seconds, because I will have another question for the Minister in a moment. But what really interests me a little with this very question, which is a little about the backwards, is what actually happened in the ministry. When you stand and ask for some money, as in the paper is indicated to be 100 million. kr. kr. I guess it would be natural to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142102	What can be discussed is, of course, the context in which the postal service should be informed. It is true that it could have been done in a different way than following another meeting and having discussed this matter. I would like to take note of the fact that we could have done better and different than in the way it has done. But that does not change the fact that we have some challenges to solve and that there are also some requests from the author's own party for analyses which cannot be completed on this side of 1 January. I therefore hope, of course, that Parliament will support us in making a temporary extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142141	Sir. Martin Geertsen for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142143	I take this as an expression of what can be defined as a regret on the part of the Minister that this could have been organized a little more appropriately by the Minister and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142156	I can confirm that, and I have already expressed it to both Mr Delors. Martin Geertsen's colleague, the transport rapporteur, and also the rapporteur for the Liberal and Democratic Reformist Group. So I'll definitely take that on my cape. That is how it is sometimes, and then we need to be better at discussing the problems that there are. However, I do not want to be unnecessarily polemical, because I actually find that all parties in the Left too are very constructive in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142222	The question is over.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142228	Here you go, sir. Martin Geertsen, for reading the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142229	What is the Minister's position on finding new solutions for the provision of the universal service, including the possible inclusion of private distributors, who are currently also responsible for distribution tasks to Danish households?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142243	As I have said, various discussions are currently taking place in the postal services circle, and I think it is the right forum to take the more detailed discussions on how to find solutions to the universal service provision. However, I would also like to confirm that, as Mr. Martin Geertsen mentioned here is one of the topics that the Left has also brought to the table in relation to what needs to be analysed, and I think we should analyse all the aspects that are necessary. Therefore, I do not intend to make any firm statements here today about the models to be chosen, but will indicate that a topic for discussion may be the involvement of private distributors, as the questioner indicates. More precisely where and how to find the solutions, the gripes, on a future universal service and ensure that all Danes can also receive letters in the future • both those who live on small islands, and those who, for example, are exempted from digital mail, which are indeed many Danes, I want to take in the postal conciliation circle, but will also indicate here that I think that the parties involved in the discussions are very constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142411	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142412	I understand that, that is, the fact that there are things that do not necessarily have to be negotiated for the open carpet. However, allow me to ask, because I am so interested in the well-being of the government, what the government's basic attitude to some of these issues could be. I'd like to drill into that a little bit. As far as we are concerned, it is of course important that we secure the universal service so that the people who live down there, where the minister lives, and the people who live where I come from, namely down on Lolland, actually get their post. However, we probably also have a "what should we say in principle' attitude that we should get the market tested and see if we could not solve the task of the universal service better and cheaper in cooperation with the private sector. There are, of course, a lot of private players on the market, as the Minister knows very well, among those who distribute newspapers and packages and advertising and all sorts of things to people's mailboxes today, who should also have the opportunity to bid for this task and to solve the universal service that I think the Minister and I agree we must maintain. I think that could be some possible paths to think about, and it may even have the positive side effect that we can save some driving and make some green transition out of it. So, the private thinking has many positive side benefits, I think. In fact, I would like to ask very strongly: does the Minister believe that PostNord alone should provide the universal service in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142553	We, as a government, have not made that point, and the analyses from the various parties in the postal services circle that are quite a lot of things we all want to do, so we have a sound basis for decision-making when we have to sit down in the new year and make a hopefully as broad an agreement on the future of transport as there is on the present one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142621	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142622	I have also seen it in other contexts, i.e. that the government almost operates as moderator for the rest of Parliament. The government sits in the middle and gives the floor to a few different parties in terms of meaning, and then you gather a little together on it and finally find out what you think. There are, of course, some obvious advantages to the rest of the Danish Parliament, but I would now like to keep asking whether there should be a single position in the government. I could, for example. to ask whether the Minister will explain how the supposedly 100 million. kr. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142700	I cannot comment on a confidential file where parts may have leaked to the press to the detriment of the state. I can only regret that has happened. However, I would like to reply to the first part of Mr. Martin Geertsen's question, namely whether a concrete statement should be made, because that is something I have indicated. My statement in relation to universal service and letters has been that I do not think that taxpayers should finance, in other words through tax revenue, that letter mail is being carried around Denmark. There must be other solutions to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142735	So I will try to try in all possible ways, because I am interested in what the government thinks to ask from a slightly different angle: what is the Minister's intention with regard to a new universal service agreement? For that is what we need to take as the basis for some time to come. Well, what is the Minister's intention with that? And how will the Minister ensure that the competences of all relevant distributors are actually also used?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142804	First of all, by ensuring that all the analyses requested by the parties of the Danish Parliament which participate in the postal conciliation circle have been carried out, that is quite a number of analyses carried out. There are, among other things: the area which Mr. Martin Geertsen asks about here, one of the elements. But it is also clear that, for example, we also need to analyse how we ensure that the state does not hang on a bill for, for example, redundant officials in PostNord, there are quite a lot of them, and that would potentially be a billion bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142837	Thank you to the Minister for Transport and to Mr. Martin Geertsen. We go further in the series of questions, and the next one to ask questions is Mr. Kim Valentin, and it's for the Minister of Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142849	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142853	As new studies show that Danish school pupils are getting worse at reading, what initiatives will the Minister take to strengthen the reading skills of the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211142908	Thank you. And thank you for the question. In my opinion, this is one of the most relevant and most urgent questions in Danish school policy and possibly also one of the most difficult to actually give a clear answer to. One of the initiatives already undertaken by the government is, in connection with the economic agreement with the municipalities, to have made an agreement to make an inclusion review. We have already had a first rebirth of this a few years ago and, in the best of my knowledge, it is essential that we do it again, because I think that is some of the things we have not hit properly. In other words, the group of pupils who have difficulty with the school does not, of course, mean that not all schools receive the support and help, even early enough, as they really need. I therefore believe that there is a very long way to go and that we should listen very seriously to both teachers and, of course, parents of pupils who have these difficulties. So in such a short time as I have to answer, I would like to point out this and the second, which is that the government has taken the initiative to go further with word-blind coverage, but also with teaching. This is also a point in which I believe that we are too little able to catch all the children and young people who are in difficulty. If you look at the size of a group, just the group of dyslexics, then we're talking about a place between 6 and 8 per cent. of a vintage. In other words, when we talk about children with difficult reading difficulties, a very large proportion of the group of children with dyslexia is a problem. And that is why, in my opinion, it is one of the most important places to take action and therefore also one of the first places where the government came up with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143048	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for going into actually relatively specific areas. Inclusion and dyslexia are certainly areas that can be addressed, but may I not also draw the attention of the Minister to the fact that the Danish Library Association has actually drawn up a reading strategy. After all, I am the library rapporteur myself, which is why it is of course my interest. It says that there are seven areas you can go out to help on these parts. We know that reading is the mother of all subjects, so if we want to help all the other subjects, it is really important that we do something here too. And I am told that the Minister is very aware of this, so I am pleased about that. My follow-up question is this: does the Minister agree that it takes a comprehensive and wholehearted effort to reverse developments and is the government willing to give priority to the efforts required? Now I'm talking about money here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143149	Well, the short answer to that is yes. We are, moreover, both in the field of the Ministry of Culture, which concerns the public libraries, where the Minister for Culture has dropped money, but also in my own area. In fact, I mean it when I say that this is the most important agenda we have. In other words, if you do not have basic reading skills and if you do not have basic arithmetic skills, then you find it extremely difficult to manage in our society, and I believe that this is one of the deepest absurdities in our society, that we have such a large group that leaves primary school without having those competences in place. So the answer is yes. And you can say that both of the two things I mentioned are also things that cost money, too, very much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143233	I am pleased about that, and I am certainly pleased that the Minister has mentioned that the Minister for Culture has set aside 7 million. kr. 3rd grade. What about the older students? Could it be imagined that the government would take up this depeche and also set aside money for the older students?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143254	That's 6 million. kr. and not 7 million. kr. It's outside my resort, so now I'm referring alone, because it's outside my resort. I would like to say that what the Ministry of Children and Education has done is, of course, to add a fairly large amount of money to this year's Finance Act. And the core of it is precisely that the kids have to learn to read, and that is not where we are talking 6 or 7 million. kr., but about 250 million. kr. first year and then 400 million. kr., then 500 million. kr. And then 750 million. kr. It is just to say that in the government that is sitting now, we mean it quite seriously when we say that more money is needed for it to be done out there. So we have to get up to a three-digit million dollars before I really think we are moving something, and that is also what the government has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143335	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143336	That sounds good. Then there must also be room for the Library Association's reading strategy in this context. That's 7 million. kr. The 6 million. kr. is for the targeted effort, 1 million. kr. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals. kr. In everything, I can say. The last question I have is that evidence-based studies are super important in terms of not wasting money in this context. Does the Minister think that we have sufficient knowledge to know what is best in terms of promoting children's literacy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143409	Yeah, but I don't think we're using that knowledge. And again: I do not want to deal with what is going on in the area of the Minister for Culture, I am quite sure that the rapporteur can go along with the Minister for Culture. But I would like to say that the teachers in the Danish primary school are educated. It is a very good idea; it is such a basic requirement for being good at learning from them; that is why they get the training. And that is why the government is very concerned that in these years we are seeing increasing trends in it, that there are people who are employed in primary school for shorter or longer periods, as teachers in e.g. Danish in the smallest classes. We just don't think that's gonna work. There is evidence that teacher training has, funny enough, the effect that is the meaning of teacher training.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143448	Thank you, sir. Kim Valentin. The next person to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Education is Mrs Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143456	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143458	Thank you. Will the Minister listen to the evaluation of the national tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143510	The questioner for a clarification of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143511	I think that sounds really good. It is simply because, in an article in Politiken on 25 September, the Minister says that we must abolish national tests and replace them with a new system. And I am just surprised that the Minister, who is already out to say that a completely new system should be created, will not wait for that evaluation, so will not start listening to what that evaluation might say, nor to discuss it with the conciliation circle before drawing conclusions, as the Minister has done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143542	We are certainly also going to listen to both the conciliation circle and to the results that are coming, and indeed to those who work in the field, as well as to parents and pupils. It's just to say that what I've been shooting at is that we're listening. And all we have concluded in advance is that some changes need to be made. It is now about 10 years since we started the national tests together and it was a right step to take, as regards the discussion that has just been about reading, that is to say that there are too many children leaving school without being able to read and count. The only challenge, then, is that we have not achieved our goal. That is why I think we can say in advance that it was certainly not the tools that brought us closer. This does not mean that they no longer have to be part of the answer, but it means that we have to give at least another answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143627	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143628	Well, I think it makes a lot of sense to listen to the parents. You could also listen to the research community. There are 31 researchers who have been warning against jumping to conclusions about the national tests before knowing the results of this evaluation. I just want to hear: how can the Minister say that there is simply a need for a completely new system before you know the outcome of the evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143653	It's actually relatively simple. The prerequisite for introducing the national tests was that we wanted more people to leave school with basic literacy skills. That was the purpose of the national tests when we jointly introduced them. I mean, it hasn't really worked out yet. That is why I can say in advance that these tools have been inadequate and hence the conclusion. Now it has been 10 years, which means that for us to see this is a really good time to stop and, in reality, what can one say without prejudice enter into the debate and listen to all those who have something wise to say. It is scientists, it is also when we get the conclusions from the evaluation here after Christmas, and it is listening to what teachers and students have to say about the national tests. I think that this should be dealt with without prejudice, and I hope that the Conservative People's Party will.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143741	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143742	Yes, absolutely. Nor has the Conservative People's Party been out to say that they should be abolished or that the party-out should be as it is today, and that is precisely out of respect for the whole process. I think it is very important that, when we are faced with such a profound change as we are potentially facing, we do so together, that we first get an evaluation and then discuss it with each other. So can the Minister not see that when you go out in advance and say that you want a completely new system, you actually decouple the process, short-circuit it and jump to the conclusion in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143811	No, actually, is the short answer. It's so lame to answer that short, so I won't. But no, I don't actually see that. I think that after 10 years it is a perfectly reasonable time to stop and look at the evaluation when it comes here, look at what the teachers say about this tool, what the students say about it, and what the parents, who I think are some of those who have got the most out of it, say: What has been good, what has been bad? I think we should go to that and there are therefore only a few evaluations. There is a great deal else we need to listen to and we also need to talk about it in the conciliation circle. I believe that this is a very big decision for our school, and that is why it must also have that place, and I believe that we are giving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143844	Thank you. The same partner couple goes on with the next question, spm. No. S 444.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143853	Here you go to Mrs Mai Mercado to read the question to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143855	After all, this is a beautiful extension of the previous question: will the Minister withdraw the proposal for a completely new test system if it turns out that the current tests work overall but need adjustments and improvements?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143909	It's not often I miss sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, former prime minister. I can do it humanly, but not necessarily politically. But right here I completely agree with him. Hypothetical questions I don't answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143925	Well, then we'll have to see if we can get in a little bit. Because where does the Minister go? When is this a completely new system, and when are these adjustments and changes? For if the evaluation shows, and if the conversations with parents and all other relevant actors in the educational world show that the national tests work overall, that is an adjustment, and then perhaps it is fundamental incremental changes that we are going through rather than what the Minister has announced: an entirely new test system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211143958	Mrs Mai Mercado is now putting forward a different hypothesis from that contained in the question. It is always a discussion in here, when something is a reform, when it is a change, when it is a blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah-blah. What I want to insist on, what is at the heart of me and which I hope is the joint task we can put together, is that our purpose at the time is the same today: we want more people to read and calculate when they get out of school. That was our purpose together when we did the national tests, and that's my aim line, that's... where we can get to with some bouquet of things we do, where we can see we are getting closer, based on evaluation, on the experience we have gained, and on the basis of what we are told by parents, students and teachers. I think that's what we should do. Whatever you call it, you can call it Hans for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144047	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144048	But the Minister takes it in the wrong order. First of all, the Minister goes out on 25 September and says that there is a need for a completely new system, and then invite various parties to enter into dialogue and discuss how the national tests should be. How can we get to the conclusion in advance instead of doing it the other way around saying that we are now waiting first for the evaluation, and then we see how the discussions are going to be, and then to conclude how we are setting up a new test system?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144116	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144117	That was, in fact, long before September, because it is evident from the understanding paper we have produced. So the rapporteur could actually tighten up his rhetoric about it, since the parties of understanding back in June stated that we have a desire to abolish national tests in the smallest classes and rethink the system as a whole. What is meant by this is simply to say that we have had it for about ten years now, and we can see that what was the common purpose is still intact and that we have not solved the problem. We would therefore like to look at this again, and I hope that the Conservative People's Party will take part in it. That has actually been my understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144156	Well, I just think we should respect a conciliation circle, and a conciliation circle should be addressed precisely in the way that we get an evaluation, so that we have a basis. You sit down and negotiate and discuss with relevant parties, and then you make a decision. Meanwhile, we see a minister who has shorted out the whole process and has already come to a conclusion. I think that's just a really, really bad start to getting a really good and new based test system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144221	I really believe that both the former minister and myself have been here long enough to know that saying that you want a change is not saying how to conclude what it is for a change. In other words, some have called the smallest corners of some kind of reform, which has actually barely been a legislative proposal, and elsewhere huge structural reforms have been made, both of which have been called reform. There I think we should be careful not to get too hung up on words. What has been important to us has been to launch a debate. I need and we need as a government and I think that everyone who deals with school policy needs to listen to as many as possible. And we're not making any conclusions. We are not even starting to negotiate on this side of an evaluation. That would be to short-circuit it. But as long as we take and breathe deep into our stomachs and give us the time to do something solid that can replace the old, I think we can take everything that was good about what was there. We're gonna have to discuss that if it's 20 or 99.9%. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144319	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and to Mrs Mai Mercado. The next person to ask questions is sir. Kim Valentin, who has to ask questions about the working Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144338	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144341	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that an agreement on the Royal Theatre should be made only one year old when the agreement is usually four years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144359	First of all, thank you to Mr. Kim Valentin to focus on the Royal Theatre. It is, of course, a work that we are working on, where we have close dialogue with the various parliamentary parties on how we deal with this. It is true that it has been mentioned as an opportunity that you could make a 1-year agreement, not because it has to be the new one, but simply because we have found that there is a new, strong leadership at the Royal Theatre, which has visions and ideas of making a project that reaches wider reach where you gain greater popular anchoring and where you also get more children and young people to engage in it here. The idea has been that if we could then extend the way we usually work for a year, now that we have also got a new government, and even if we are in a situation right now and here with a temporary minister of culture, we could make a 1-year agreement to use that year for a new agreement to work purposefully, vigorously and systematically with the Royal Theatre to create a new 4-year agreement, which then includes some of the strong visions for the future that Director Kasper Holten has for this. In what we have talked about so far we haven't concluded anything yet; we are negotiating with the various parties; we have also set out to use the time for the Royal Theatre to make strategy in relation to the inclusion of children and young people and also a strategy in relation to a broader popular anchoring. So that's kind of the answer to it. It's not that we're per. definition wants a 1-year agreement. But it has been a practical solution to an opportunity to create a more visionary Royal Theatre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144610	Thank you. And then there is the possibility that the questioner will be able to ask further questions for two minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144615	Thank you. I think that sounds very good, may I say to the Minister. At the same time, I must also begin by commending the Social Democracy for having cancelled the cultural priority contribution from next year. I know, when I say this, that it was perhaps not just the government's first priority in the negotiations, but I still think it should be praised that the Social Democratic Party is biting to fuck when the support parties say something that is as sensible as that, in other words to cancel the re-priority contribution in the field of culture. Having said that, I am listening to the fact that it is part of a long-term strategy that you will move on to a four-year agreement from next year. In this context, the acting Minister for Culture has come up with a concept called cultural solidarity. I think that is an exciting word and it will be even more exciting if it is also in the direction I hope it is. But could the Minister explain how the Royal Theatre fits into that category? And what does cultural solidarity really mean in a budgetary context?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144737	But as a minister, even if you are only acting minister, you are always flattered by praise. I believe that the praise should now be given to the broad Danish folk regime, so that in Denmark, fortunately, there is a huge interest in cultural policy, and it is also reflected here in the Folketing, where many parties have stressed the importance of fighting these boring re-priority contributions out of the Finance Act. There we have some strong support parties who have done a very commendable job to get it out, so thank you to them. Cultural solidarity is about getting more people on board, and that is also what is being proposed, i.e. that the Royal Theatre does something sublime, but that more people should enjoy it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144820	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144822	Thank you. Over time, social democratic leaders such as Anker Jørgensen, Jens Otto Krag and Viggo Kampmann have agreed that like the finest of the finest culture, they also had to go out to most. Does the President-in-Office of Culture think that too? And what do the Minister think about strengthening the scope of the Royal Theatre in the population?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144851	That is absolutely right, and I am pleased that the questioner is so referring to socialist history. After all, it is a story that I am very pleased and proud of, and to which I also refer in my concept of cultural solidarity, because it is about the elite and the sublime, which among other things. The Royal Theatre is something that can inspire us all. And that's why it's a shame and shame when there's a big group that never gets any pleasure from this that doesn't get the experience that doesn't come in and see it. That is why we are also so enthusiastic that the new talented director, Kasper Holten, has a vision to reach out wider. And that's why we want to use this year to work in depth with it so that we can bring more children and young people in and experience it, but also bring new target groups on board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211144940	I'm happy with the assurances of a 4-year agreement from next year. May I conclude by thanking the Minister for all the information we have received here on the Royal Theatre and by asking: will the Minister then indicate how much the government wants to give financial priority to the Royal Theatre?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145002	The financial agreement that has been drawn up now continues with the well-known budgeting, but without any re-priority contribution, so you have a strong and robust economy, and we see no reason to change that. And then I'm really glad that the questioner, who is the Leftman, too, has a strong tradition with Grundtvig supporting this popularisation project. Basically, I don't think it's just a social-democratic project... but I think it's a broad Danish project: that the fine culture we have is a lot more to enjoy. And it would indeed be in Grundtvig's spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145041	Thank you for that for the acting Minister for Culture and for Mr. Kim Valentin. The next question has been put by Mrs Krarup to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145055	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145056	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the new regime in the Finance Act Agreement of 2 December 2019, which provides for a new labour market association scheme (page 23) for refugees who do not have to be sent home but instead can stay in Denmark, will make Denmark more or less Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145119	Thank you for the question of the new business system, which I know is of concern to many people. So let me start by stating that refugees will continue to be granted residence permits for temporary stays. Nor does the proposal change the rules on withdrawal of the residence permit. Refugees still have to return home when there is peace in their country of origin. It has always been possible for foreigners who have withdrawn their residence permit to stay in Denmark if they have a job covered by one of our occupational schemes. That is also true today. For example, you serve. more than approx. $5,000. In the case of a Member State whose currency is not the euro, the amount of the euro shall be calculated on the basis of the currency of the Member State in which the currency is denominated in the currency of the Member State in which You can also stay if you have higher education and have obtained a job on the positive list. The new proposal will also allow you to stay in Denmark if you earn less than DKK 35,000. or do not have a higher education. On the other hand, you must have had 2 years of permanent work on normal Danish terms and conditions of employment. If so, you are only here because of your job, and you cannot go down to the job centre and get assistance if you lose your job. We have decided to introduce this scheme at the request of the business community. Companies have a clear desire to be able to keep employees who have fallen well and who have invested time and resources in the training of. Businesses in general have become better at taking on such responsibility for integration. More and more newly arrived refugees are in quite ordinary, ordinary, honest work, and I think that is welcome, and we should not waste that development, and that is why we have chosen to listen to these demands from the business community. And I think that is actually a very Danish approach to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145254	Thank you for your answer. There are several things that puzzle me. First of all, this is a change. It is true that, in the past, people who had a fairly large income have been able to stay longer, even if they had a higher education and there was a need for one's very special labour force in Denmark. After all, it is now being extended to everyone because there is no longer an amount requirement. So I am aware that the Social Democrats would very much like to hide it by saying that this is just an arrangement that has been here all along. But it is so of course it is a change that will make Denmark less Danish, because there will be more foreigners who then stay here. And it's okay that the foreigners who then stay here are not on a transfer income. However, we have the example, which has been well advanced in the media, of a bus driver from Viborg, who is from Somalia and who has a wife and seven children. It may well be that these people, who are now allowed to stay here through his social relationship, can so, even if the individual is not, it can be so overall. And it certainly doesn't make Denmark any more Danish that this big family from Somalia is now allowed to stay in Denmark. So I am surprised that the Minister will not help to stress that this is of course a change. The second thing I wonder about is solidarity with the working people of Denmark. It was once such a matter for the Socialists, but today it is evident that it is the need for cheap labour for business that is a new priority. In other words, when business wants to keep people, they have to stay here because business needs them. What about all the people in Denmark who also need a job? Shouldn't the Social Democrats think more of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145502	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145504	I have noted that the chairman of the party of the author of the question referred to the famous bus driver from Viborg, and as far as I have understood the specific case, this is an example of the fact that a person on the existing regulatory basis, that is, the legislation currently in force, has the opportunity to stay in Denmark. What we are proposing is indeed a change in the existing legislation. That is why it is part of the financial law agreement, and we expect to put forward a legislative proposal which is about people who have been in employment for two years being able to stay as long as they are in employment. And I've just gotten a ride on how many of... Yes, thank you! ) Well, I'll take that in the next answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145542	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145543	The person from Somalia has become famous, and it is the new system that will make him stay. At least that's the way it's made. Under the old rules, which were adopted last year, that one should be repatriated as soon as one had no reason to stay as a refugee in Denmark, he would have been repatriated. So it's this change that makes him able to stay, and it doesn't make Denmark any more Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145614	Now we are not going to deal with a specific case, but I believe that this particular case has been dealt with in accordance with some old legislation, emphasising employment as part of the relationship with Denmark. However, I think the questioner is right that it is not on the existing legislation, I would like to acknowledge that. I'm gonna get back to the numbers. If you simply take the Somalis who have had their residence permit withdrawn in recent years because there is no longer a need for protection, then I can see that out of the 484 refugees that the Foreigners' Board has decided to withdraw or refuse to extend a residence permit, only three have been employed in the same place of work in the last two years prior to the decision. So that's between 1 and 2%. by those who have had their residence permit withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145653	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145655	It is one of the things that we really appreciate, that is to say, that you take up such matters and go through them and then make sure that you get sent back people who have no reason to be here anymore. This is extremely important, and that is why this scheme is wrong at least if you want to preserve Denmark Danish and prevent us from becoming a country where labour migration is an option, that is, migrants can apply to Denmark because they will see that they will be able to stay here in the longer term if they take a job. That is not the meaning of a nation state; it is not the way to protect your people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145734	Yes, but now that I can see that out of those who have had their residence permit withdrawn, it is between 1 and 2% who have had permanent work in the same place in the last 2 years • it is really, really few • then, frankly, I do not understand the concern at all. These are people who get up every morning and go to work and pay their taxes, and as long as they are in employment, they have the opportunity to be in Denmark. After all, the former bourgeois government wanted to extend access to occupational schemes by lowering the threshold and extending the positive list. This is a miniature step in this direction, and it is a sensible step, because it is people who are in employment, and the Danish People's Party must be able to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145817	Thank you. That's the last thing we got with this question. Question Time continues with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and with Marie Krarup who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145828	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145831	Does the Minister believe that Denmark will be able to maintain the same degree of cohesion and respect for the individual as we have traditionally had when Denmark will have a population composition in the future, where larger and larger groups come with a Muslim cultural background?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211145843	Let me start by saying that I understand the questioner's interest in the importance of religion for the cohesion of our society and for the importance of immigration for the same thing. Here we really share an interest in getting to the bottom of understanding what this is really important, because over the past five decades we have had immigration that has challenged our cohesion. But if we can maintain this cohesion and our freedoms, in my opinion, depends entirely on the decisions we choose to make. If we allow excessive and uncontrolled immigration, we run the risk that integration will not keep up, and if we allow the development of parallel societies, our values will slowly be undermined from within. However, if we maintain the strict immigration policy of recent years, we will have a surplus to strengthen the integration of those who have already come here, just as we need to insist, in principle, that the democratic values of everyday life be clear to everyone and that our society does not compromise with many decades of rights and freedoms. So if we succeed, we're completely dependent on ourselves, and it's important that we take this responsibility on ourselves. In any case, we are very pleased with the broad cooperation on foreign policy, which is right across the centre of Danish politics. For us, it is about two things: point 1 to maintain a low influx and point 2 to strengthen the integration of those who have already come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150002	Thank you for your answer. What is interesting here is that in theory we are in complete agreement. The answer given here by the Minister could probably have been given by myself. What distinguishes us is what we do in practice. There was what we were talking about just now, an example of it, because with the new labour market association system it is a very long and difficult word that avoids sending people home who actually had to go home. This means that there will be more foreigners in Denmark. So here it is a decision by the Social Democrats and a Socialist Minister who largely agrees with me that a strict immigration policy must be maintained in order to prevent our cultural cohesion and respect for the individual from progressing in the long term, because it does not take into account the fact that such a change, which will be adopted by the new Financial Act, will have an effect in the future. It may well be that one can say that it is not as many people as it is, although I think there is so little doubt about it, because their families have also been talked to in the figure we have been promoting. I do not know, but in addition, one cannot guarantee what effect it will have on the future influx, that the concept of refugees is now being abolished and made an immigration concept so that people can come as a refugee and be allowed to stay here indefinitely, even if there is peace in the country of origin, as long as there is a link between the labour market. In theory, we are probably in complete agreement, and the Minister has an opportunity to carry out a strict immigration policy, but it does not seem to be doing so, even though we are rhetorically in agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150153	I would like to begin by fully agree with the questioner that this is not just about the one person who is in employment, but also about any family members, and that the overall figure must be taken into account when assessing what this has to do with the ability of Danish society to integrate the number that has come to our country. I also feel that every modern society must have both immigration and emigration. It's part of being in a global world. So our job is not to close the door. Our task is to have controlled immigration and to have it at a level where our integration can follow. So I am not opposed to people being able to come here on an occupational scheme or to staying here on an occupational scheme. I am opposed to too many people coming here so that we cannot keep up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150232	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150235	However, to that end, we have to say that we are currently seeing something like a migration from the poor southern regions of the globe to the north, and these are also regions of the globe which are culturally completely different from us. And we have seen in the last 50 years that people have had enormous difficulties in integrating; many have not been integrated at all. So if you want immigration, which in many cases you can wish for, you must of course ensure that it is from culturally related areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150310	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150311	I believe that we can conclude two things after 50 years of immigration to Denmark. One is that it takes longer, it leads to more cultural conflicts, and it costs more money to integrate people from the hot countries into Danish society. I do not think that is an issue. But the second thing we can also conclude is that this can be done. It can be done. Lots of people, thousands of people have fallen completely unproblematic in Danish society. That is why the government's policy is not that the border should be closed and that no human being should be able to come here. Our policy is that for a number of years there will have to be so many fewer people in Denmark that we can integrate the people who come here and those who have already come here. We must, as it were, pay off the integration debt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150354	The Danish People's Party does not want a closed border either, but we believe that the quota for Muslim immigration is completely exhausted. There is no room for more, because the number really matters, and because it is so difficult to integrate Muslims into Denmark. Therefore, we have to face up to the fact that if we are to have any form of labour migration, it must come from areas where there is a culture that is closer to the Danish one. And we must ensure that we have refugees sent back so that there will not be a larger number with Muslim background in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150427	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150430	Now we have relatively low asylum rates at the moment. I have just received the number of asylums for last week, and that is going in the right direction; it is really positive. Next year we expect to distribute 600 refugees to Danish municipalities plus possibly quota refugees. Now they are distributed a little differently in the municipalities of the country, but if you take an average municipality such as Holstebro, Gladsaxe or Næstved, that would be like having approx. 1% of them, six people. If the municipalities only get some of that amount for a number of years, I believe they will succeed not only in integrating the newcomers, but also in planning the integration debt in relation to those who have already come here. And the Danish society can hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150506	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Krarup. The next person to ask questions about the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150516	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150518	Thank you. The question is: What can the Minister say about the government's attitude and efforts to ensure that asylum treatment is in future carried out in reception centres outside Europe, as proposed by the Minister's party in the paper "Righteous and realistic"? An alien policy that brings together Denmark, page 13, February 2018, and can the Minister give details of how the proposal is progressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150548	Thank you for the question and interest in our proposal, which we are pleased to be able to pursue now from government offices. Let me start by saying that although the entry figures in Denmark are lower than in 2015 and 2016, the situation in the Middle East and North Africa is still very fragile. In Turkey alone there are now more than 3.5 million refugees, and more than 0.5 million people are registered as asylum seekers in the European Union annually. That is why we need to be prepared for the pressure from migratory and refugee flows to increase rapidly. At the same time, we must learn from the challenges of recent years, and we must recognise that the current asylum system continues to motivate people to travel irregularly to Europe and in this context expose themselves to very great danger. That is why the government has a clear ambition to promote a fairer asylum system in Europe. The aim is to have a significant reduction in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers in the European Union, to have far fewer deaths in the Mediterranean and to be subjected to attacks on the routes, and to have significantly better protection and assistance for more refugees in the neighbourhood and along migration routes. Access to Europe must be controlled by Europe itself, not by traffickers. It is a difficult task, and there are no snapshot solutions, but we are looking at a number of different bets that must each bring us closer to the goal. The establishment of a reception centre in a safe third country is one of the elements we are looking at. There are a number of challenges that we are looking at, of a practical, legal and economic nature, but the idea is that spontaneous asylum seekers coming to Denmark should be transferred to a reception centre in a safe third country; here their asylum case needs to be dealt with. If they are refugees, they must be protected, but not in Denmark; if they are refused asylum, they will have to be sent home. The idea is thus to remove the incentive to opt for the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean. When I talk to colleagues from other EU countries, for example. for Council meetings, or as when I was recently in Germany to visit the German Minister for the Interior, of course I am presenting the Danish Government's ideas of a completely new asylum system; this also applies to our ideas of a reception centre outside the European Union. I must admit that I am positively surprised that there is a fairly broad consensus on the analysis of the need for action on the current system. Many countries also have good proposals for solutions, as well as listening to the Danish Government's proposals. For me, therefore, it is also important to make it clear that every step, big or small, is a step in the right direction, and I look forward to discussing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150805	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150806	Thank you for your answer. In fact, I think I have been extremely constructive, because I am in fact talking about the Social Democrats' own proposal in the election campaign, which I can agree with very far along the way. Perhaps not in relation to everything, but in many places, because it was constructive. It was about creating reception centres; you should not actually have people to Denmark as far as possible. And that is why, in my question, I am asking about the efforts. After all, it is very good that the Minister can read out that it is good and that he can explain again how the presentation sounded in the election campaign, but that is not what I am calling for. I am calling for an answer as to how far the government has come with those efforts. And it is not enough to say that you are still prepared to do so and that there is a positive attitude to it around. My question is: what is the Minister doing to put it in place? I really think it's important. I have just heard the Minister's answer from the previous questioner, and I have also noticed that the government is increasingly stressing that what we are discussing is not a foreign policy, it is a business policy which I could understand from the rapporteur in a broadcast here last week. I think that's mixing things up. But back to the very question: how far has the effort come? And I do not want a repeat of what was said in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211150927	We've come a bit, but we haven't gotten far enough. I must also admit that I myself am a little impatient because I think that the current asylum system is anything but humane, and that is by no means realistic. We're following two tracks. One is to create as broad a political understanding and support for our thoughts as possible. I myself have spent a great deal of time meeting with international organisations and with governments in other countries. I am, of course, very interested in how they think it should be handled, just as I have the expectation that they will listen to the Danish thoughts. I myself think we have gone further than I expected, but still not far enough to be completely satisfied. The second track is to prepare cooperation with third countries to deal with migratory flows, for example. in relation to border controls and asylum procedures. We hope that, out of this cooperation, ideas can also grow about managing migratory flows in a more concrete way, as expressed by our reception centre approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151023	Thank you. Yes, but I still have to say to the Minister that this paper says: if you are refused your application for asylum, you do not need protection or the prospect of legally staying in Europe. You are therefore sent home to the country from which you come. There alone, the government has turned around. It is regrettable that this is not the case anymore. In other words, even if you have been refused, it does not mean that you are sent home to the country from which you come. We mentioned this just now, and as long as you have had a few years of work, you have the opportunity to stay here, instead of using the skills you have learned in Denmark, in the home country you come from, when the Danish authorities now say that it is possible...
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151104	Yes, please. The Minister for 1⁄2 minute reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151105	I would like to start by stating that what the Danish People's Party called the paradigm shift, which it may make more sense to call the return journey policy, is the government's goal entirely. We think this is an excellent idea and there has been no change in a comma in that part of the legislation. When we want to set up a reception centre, we have to remember that it takes two to a tango. Denmark cannot just land somewhere in a third country and then open a reception centre, but it has to be done in cooperation with the government of another country, and therefore a first step is to establish trusting cooperation with the government of another country. There is a first step on the Danish side, with an open heart and an equal cooperation, to start discussing whether we can start by dealing with some of the migration flows, for example. by helping them deal with border controls or asylum procedures.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151149	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151150	I still fully agree with the Minister's intentions. I was certainly in the election campaign, where I looked forward to it being something that was at least planned for when to happen. And that is no different now, I can understand from the Minister than it was one year ago or perhaps two years ago or three years ago, and that you would really like others to join in the idea that you have yourself. But you do not get out of the place, and that is what really worries me very, very much, and what the Minister says about the paradigm shift, and I also prefer to call it the repatriation policy, simply does not fit in with what has happened to someone having just had a few years of work here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151231	The last thing about whether or not the repatriation policy continues is that I will let reality decide. Because I am not worried that it is still the case in Denmark that, if you do not have a need for protection, you will have your residence permit withdrawn. To the extent that you are in employment, you can jump onto one of our occupational schemes. There's nothing new about that. What is new is that there will be a new occupational scheme based on the possibility of having two years' employment in the same company before. There I have just tried to read to one of the honourable Members of the author's party that if you look at those who have had their residence permit withdrawn, which is primarily from Somalia, it is between 1 and 2%. of those who have had two years of employment. So there's no need to panic, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151313	There are no more questions in that round. So we move on to the next question, where the questioner is also Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and that is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151325	Thank you. The question is: what is the Minister's position on the proposal from the Social Democratic Party that Denmark should not, from the outset, provide development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own citizens, as is shown in the paper "Righteous and realistic." Entire plan for Danish immigration policy, page 8, May 2019, and can the Minister explain how the proposal is progressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151350	Thank you for the question. As the questioner also knows, I am very concerned to find out what actually works in the broadcasting work and what does not. Because I want a foreign policy and a broadcasting system that actually works. If you are not allowed to stay in Denmark, you must of course go home. Of course, there can and should be no doubt about that either. We have a clear expectation that the countries from which foreigners come will cooperate to receive their own citizens. Fortunately, so do most countries. However, if the countries do not cooperate, I am prepared to examine what are the appropriate tools for responding to those countries. It could be development aid, visa restrictions or something quite different. I will not comment on this until we know the circumstances of cooperation with each country. As I understand it, there are also various forms of development aid. There are, for example: development assistance given to humanitarian organisations in the countries concerned, and then there may be funds that are given more directly to the authorities. This should therefore also be taken into account when discussing how development aid can support our work in the area of migration and deployment in one way or another. I also have to refer to the Minister for Development for a detailed account of both the division of development aid and the considerations behind it. But the cooperation of the countries to receive their citizens cannot stand alone either. At the same time, we know that there are countries that, regardless of our reactions, do not want to cooperate, and that is why I have asked my ministry to look at how we ensure most effectively that foreigners who do not have the right to stay in Denmark actually travel home. Because if foreigners travel themselves, it is now the best solution both for them and for us. That is why I would like to see a repatriation system designed in such a way that we can get as many people as possible to travel on our own. The results of this work, as I have already mentioned in another context, I expect to be able to share with you at the beginning of the new year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151536	Thank you. I'm gonna read you out... and I'm gonna have to send asylum seekers back home. Many of the people who have come to Denmark and Europe in recent years are not refugees. They are migrants seeking a better life in Europe. This could have been said by the Danish People's Party, and it has been done for many years, also personally by myself, but now it was the Social Democrat who came forward with it here in the election campaign, and at the same time the government now writes: "At the same time, Denmark must not give development aid to countries that refuse to accept their own citizens'. I fully agree with that. I have never been able to understand that people have been able to refuse to accept their own citizens. There must also be something called international law. It is probably outside the Minister's control, and we may be able to discuss it another time. But, as the Minister explains, there is still a difference between foreign money. Yes, yes, there is, but it is the taxpayers who pay them all, and that is why the Social Democrats write in this paper that development aid should not be given to countries that refuse to accept their own nationals. I miss the fact that we are more specific in relation to: what is being done to put pressure on those countries? That is, of course, the major problem with regard to receiving your own citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151658	We do, of course, share views here, namely that it is totally unacceptable that countries should not accept their own citizens. Most countries will, too, but there are some who do not want to, and this is totally unacceptable, and then we are hanging not only on the cultural challenge and political headaches, but also on a huge financial cost, which is why we must of course do everything we can to get these countries to think better, and here visa restrictions can be a tool, and development policy, development aid, can be another. Here I am just raising one flag, that there is a difference between whether we are giving money to states or humanitarian organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151737	Yes, but again, Minister, and we will probably come back to it at some point, it is that I very much miss the fact that there is some concrete action. It is of course no use for us to share opinions if the actions are not included in the positions we now have. That is why I am trying to pressure the Minister to be more specific, and perhaps I should ask a written question: what are some countries that will not accept? How much is given to the various countries that will not accept aid from the developing countries? Whether it is helping one or the other or the third, Danish taxpayers are helping to pay, and it is quite, quite unreasonable that other countries cannot be persuaded to accept their own citizens. You have to put pressure on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151817	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151819	I can tell you that the largest group we have in the broadcasting position, as it is called, is Iranians, and we have problems sending them home by force, and that is totally untenable. I dare not tell you how much money we spend on it: 300,000 per person. snout staying at the exit centres. It is very, very expensive, and that is why we must, of course, do everything we possibly can. But I also believe that the questioner and I agree that we must do what works first and foremost. I must admit that I do not know about the development policy towards Iran, and I do not know if we are spending any money there. But if it makes any sense at all, the government is prepared to use both visa restrictions, development policy and everything else we have in the toolbox to make this work better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151903	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151904	Then I would like to ask the government, and I would very much like the Minister at the head, to come up with an action plan for which I would like to move here in the Danish Parliament, and it does not necessarily have to be in the oral Question Time; it may also be in consultation, or what do I know where the minister comes up more specifically on what kind of countries we are giving it here, while at the same time it is countries that will not accept their own citizens and how specific the Minister and the government will be in saying: we are now slamming the money box in, whether it is one or the other form of aid. Because it is also true that, although it is said that it is humanitarian aid, we also know very well that in many cases it is unfortunately also going into the wrong pockets.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151944	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211151945	I would like to start by saying that I am pleased with the interest of the questioner in this. Because I think it is important and I would really like to ask a few written questions about exactly what the honourable Member is referring to here. The part of what is about who will not accept their own citizens, I can certainly answer, and the part about where we spend development money can then be answered by the Minister for Development, and then we have an excellent basis for a qualified discussion. And the government's position will be that if it works, we have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152014	Thank you. There are no more questions in this round. The next person to ask questions about the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, and the first question is spm. No. S 435.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152026	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152030	Thank you, Madam President. Does the Minister intend to increase the repatriation effort, or does the government want to send the signal to refugees and migrants who exploit the refugee system, that one can stay in Denmark without fearing being sent home when there is peace in one's own country?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152050	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152051	Thank you for the question. I can assure the questioner that we are behind the principle of writing temporary residence permits. It is common sense to meet refugees with the basic view that they should only be in this country for as long as they need protection. The immigration authorities are aware of changes that occur in the countries from which we receive refugees, including whether there are circumstances which might indicate that the protection needs of individual or group of refugees are no longer present. The Foreigners' Board carries out so-called fact-finding missions to relevant countries to obtain information on the situation in the countries concerned. The outcome of these missions is part of our assessment of the specific asylum cases. And if there have been changes in the situation in the country of origin so that the protection needs no longer exist, then the authorities will involve it in the assessment of the residence permit case. This is among other things. what we have seen in relation to the administration's handling of cases concerning Somali nationals, where the Immigration Authority has withdrawn and decided to refuse a residence permit in a large number of cases, because the general situation in Somalia has improved. We must, of course, continue to do so. In addition, refugees and family members are also included in the possibility of voluntary return via the repatriation scheme, where we provide a financial contribution to foreigners who wish to return home themselves. And basically, I think it is good that those refugees and family members who wish to return home have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152210	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152212	Thank you for your answer, sir. Minister. The reason why we are asking this question by the Danish People's Party is, of course, based on the elements that are also reflected in the government's financial bill for 2020. Because if you try to rewind time to, for example, the latest Finance Act 12 months ago, then it was then decided that less emphasis should be placed on links with Denmark and the Danish labour market, and that more emphasis should be placed on the link you have with the country of origin and the place where you originally come from, in relation to asylum issues, refugee issues and also in relation to family reunification. This is the schism that we clearly have: a situation in which the government apparently chooses to change it, precisely in relation to this controversial rule, which the Minister has also replied to earlier today, in other words in relation to opening up that if you are on the Danish labour market for two years in some way, you will also be able to stay in Denmark, even if there is peace in the country from which you originally come. After all, it means everything else equal that one has more difficulty discussing repatriation and that one has more difficulty discussing repatriation strategy because one gives the people who have come to Denmark some new, increased rights compared to the already existing system. That is why the Danish People's Party asks the Minister in relation to the very concept of repatriation. For it is clear in diskrepans to the government's own policy and what is stated in the 2020 Finance Act, where, in our opinion, the Danish People's Party clearly opens up the possibility of improving conditions for people in relation to being able to stay in Denmark rather than returning to the countries from which they come.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152409	In fact, I do not think there are any contradictions here. What was agreed in the last Finance Act, and which the Social Democratic Party also supported, was to change when it was considered that people were associated with Danish society, and thus when the residence permit could be withdrawn. Those rules haven't changed a comma. We stand by them completely. Then it has always been the case that if you no longer need protection, you have the opportunity to stay in Denmark if you have had a job, for example. as a nurse, or if you have earned more than DKK 35,000. a month. Now we build a third component in terms of being able to stay if you have had more than 2 years of full-time employment with the same employer. When we take a deep breath, I also think that the Danish People's Party can actually see the sense of it. It is people who contribute to society. We have no interest in kicking them out of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152447	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152457	Now there is always a difference between how to interpret those parts of it. So, an example with which the Minister has been confronted today is this famous bus driver from Viborg with seven children living at home. I am familiar with the fact that a bus driver does not pay so much in tax that he can meet the requirements for financing seven children's schooling, childcare, day care, sfo and everything else. There are quite different costs involved, especially for the municipality's economy. So I insist that if you look at the draft budget of the government, it clearly lays the foundations for further relaxation in the policy of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152536	I have, of course, heard the Danish People's Party's criticism of this proposal, and I can also sense that the Danish People's Party will probably end up voting against it. However, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party to consider whether it really is a sensible position to take, since we can now see that out of the many people who have had the residence permit withdrawn in recent years, only 1 to 2% have had two years of full-time employment. And now that we can hear from the business community, from a large number of business organisations, that they actually have an interest in the introduction of that rule, should we not, as the pragmatic parliament, which is interested in a strong Danish economy, while at the same time having a return policy for those who do not need protection any more, implement it happily?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152619	No, we shouldn't. So, Minister, I have been listening to the answers given by the Minister in the past, and I think the Minister actually mentioned two or three pieces out of four hundred or so. I think, in fact, that the figures speak their clear, clear language. So there are 400 others who have not complied with these parts, and who have caused our common boxes here in Denmark quite considerable costs. And we can easily do without the 3 out of 400 tax payments and save the many millions on the welfare bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152654	But the figure was that there are 484 refugees who have had their residence permit withdrawn. Of these, 3 have had regular full-time employment in the same place in the last two years preceding the decision. It tells both about how integration is progressing, about getting these people into the Danish labour market, but I also think it tells something about the extent of a future law change. That is also why I am appealing for a slight turn-down of the treble and a little more low-practical for the discussion. 'Cause this is hard to get upset about, I'd say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152733	Thank you. The next question has also been asked by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152744	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable that more money is provided in the Finance Act to pay for the teaching of foreigners in Danish than there is for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211152757	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by saying that I actually think that the premise for the question is a little wrong. If you look at the 2020 economics agreement, the government and the National Association of Municipalities have agreed on an increase in municipal service costs of 2.2 billion. kr. in relation to what was the starting point. The elderly will also benefit greatly from this. So for the individual elderly and for the employees in the nursing homes, it probably doesn't mean so much whether the money comes from a finance agreement or whether it comes from an agreement on the municipalities' finances. The most important thing is that the money comes out, and they do, and the elderly will feel that too. Welfare is very important to the government, and we have really had a wish that it should be lifted. That is why it must be ensured that the money comes with more elderly people and more children in the years to come. With the Finance Act and the Economic Agreements concluded for 2020, we have taken the first step. The Finance Act abolishes the participation fee for self-supporting students, i.e. foreign workers and students, and the deposit for participation in Danish education is increased from DKK 1,250. for 2,000 kroner. At the same time, the rules for reimbursement are tightened so that the students are motivated to participate more actively. The agreement shall include, inter alia: is seen in the light of the fact that after the introduction of the deposit and the contribution of participants to Danish education there is 56 per cent. fewer self-supporting students who choose to take a Danish education. This is a significantly greater fall than the previous government expected. At the same time, there is also evidence that the rules are very cumbersome to administer for the language centres, when today we operate both with a deposit and a participant fee for the participants. Now we get a system with a slightly higher deposit, which you don't just automatically get back. In this way the students continue to have a strong incentive to participate actively and complete their Danish education. At the same time, we avoid that for many people opt out of Danish because of the participation fee. Basically, we have an interest in the workers and students staying for a short or long time in Denmark also taking part in society and learning our language. Only in this way will we get the maximum benefit from the competences that students and workers can contribute to Danish society. Finally, I would like to stress that the agreement does not change the rules on Danish education for newly arrived refugees and family members. Here there is completely unchanged a right and a duty to participate in Danish education. The education is free of charge, but if you do not leave the Danish education without valid reason, the municipality will withdraw the benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153009	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153010	Thank you. I'll sign for the answer. I would now like to say that nothing is free, even the great absence from teaching that is in the language schools of the country. In many places there is more absenteeism than there is, in other words, an absence of more than 50%. But to return to the question, I would like to say to the Minister that I have the opportunity here in the first round that this KL agreement mentioned by the Minister is of course also familiar to us in the Danish People's Party. However, this does not alter the premise that the promise made in connection with the municipal agreement was, as it were, merely a boost in relation to the demography that exists, only in relation to the ageing of the population. Fortunately, people get older on average. Especially among the 80+-year-olds, within the next 10-15 years we will experience significant growth, and we can also see it in relation to the cost of medicine and other things. Then it is clear that more money will be needed, only to pay the current level to a larger group of the country's older citizens. That does not mean that there is more money for welfare. This does not mean that there is more money for the elderly area in Denmark. So our premise is completely nailproof correct. And so it is that if you look at the financial law agreement, then you add 125 million to the area of the elderly. kr. in 2020 as an additional boost. If you look at the 2019 Finance Act, where Dansk Folkeparti was involved, the promise was 1.5 billion. kr. Actually, that's not a number we've come up with. There are, in fact, figures in the Finance Act agreements, so they are indisputable. That's also why the Elders Case has been out to say that this is actually a huge, massive failure to the elderly here in Denmark. Then some might say that's something that the Elders Case has to say. But that is something that is reasonably easy to measure, precisely in relation to what it really is for some sums that are set aside to honour the demands and expectations that the elderly must rightly have in a welfare society such as the Danish one. There the government clearly gives a very, very different priority than we would have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153214	I would like to start by saying that I think we should always listen very seriously to the Elders case. I would also like to say that what the Danish People's Party is asking here is sweet music in the ears of a social democrat, namely that the money must keep up with the fact that there are more children and older people. Perhaps the questioner could also whisper it in the ears of the author's party leadership next time financial law is to be negotiated when there is a bourgeois finance minister. After all, it is now with a social democratic government that we have actually ensured that there is an economy for the welfare state to keep up and that there is a proper service boost both in the area of children and in the area of the elderly. Therefore, I would also like to maintain that if you are sitting out in a nursing home and getting an extra meatball on the fork next year, because there is actually a better economy in the municipal agreements, then I think the elderly does not really care whether the meatball has been paid for by a municipal agreement or by a financial agreement. The bottom line is that the government is pursuing a policy that will be felt better in nursing homes than otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153305	Thank you. Then it's the questioner's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153306	I am pleased that the Minister can apparently stand here in the Folketing and legislate cheaper meatballs. Whether they're made of turkey or pigs doesn't matter. But that's just not the truth. The truth is that the user fee at our care centers and in our day kitchen offers in many municipalities is increasing. It will be more expensive for the elderly to wash their bed linen. It will be more expensive for the elderly to get their daily necessities at care centres and at the Danish nursing homes, because the user fee will increase. So I think perhaps the minister should have a little more focus on that rather than discuss meatballs here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153343	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153344	A boost of 2.2 billion. kr. in relation to the starting point is quite a significant boost. This means that the Danish municipalities receive significantly more money than they were otherwise intended. This should be noted in the nursing homes and in the care of the elderly. You have to be able to feel that. That is why I think it is possible to put it up against the fact that one now has to pay no more fees to go to a Danish education, and then claim that more money is spent on Danish education than on the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153424	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153425	It really doesn't. The Finance Act contains quite clear words in relation to how the money is given priority, and there is an indisputable truth that the elderly area is being taken into account by 125 million. kr., where in the last Finance Act it was accommodated by 1.5 billion. kr. instead. Neither the Minister nor I can change that. These are also figures that the Minister can get confirmed by the Elders Case and elsewhere. We have 73 000 elderly people in our own homes without help today, and within the next 10 years we have a shortage of 25 000 elderly housing, and we have medical costs that are rising and therefore what the government is doing is not enough. You spend the money on teaching foreigners instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153508	It's the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153509	I would like to start by agreeing with the questioner that this is not enough. We are pleased with the financial agreement that has been concluded, but we are far from satisfied, and I bet that when we stand here in December 2020, we will still be able to point out in Danish society and see problems in the older sector, and these are also problems that the government intends to address. We are taking step by step, and this financial agreement is the first step. I would also like to point out that the Financial Act also provides money to hire extra nurses, and I wonder if there is a single pensioner here and there who benefits from it? That is why I do not think that we can look very closely at the appropriations for which there are exactly older people in the budget text, because we need to see the whole welfare state's economy as a whole. But I would like to thank you very much for the discussion and thank you for your interest in the elderly; it is a place where the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party share some common interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153553	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Hans Kristian Skibby. The last person to ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153601	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153605	Thank you. I will start by reading the question to the Minister. Does the Minister not consider that the new regime in the Finance Act Agreement of 2 December 2019, which provides for a new labour market association scheme (p. 23) for refugees who do not have to be sent home but instead can stay in Denmark, will make Denmark more attractive to asylum seekers and migrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153626	Thank you for the question. I would like to start by stating that the government wants to continue the tight immigration policy, which a broad majority in the Folketing also supports. For the government, it is important that companies that have invested time and resources in the training of a foreign employee should not simply lose a valued colleague, for example. if he/she divorces. This proposal is therefore primarily about business policy, and it is also an amendment to the law on foreigners, because it is a question of introducing a small supplementary occupational scheme in which foreigners who have worked continuously for two years and have benefited a company can apply for a work permit with a view to continuing employment. As I have also said in a previous reply to a colleague of the author's party, we should remember that the proposal does not change the rules for the inclusion of residence permits for refugees; they will still have to go home when there is no longer any basis for protecting them, and that is why I do not believe that this new proposal will affect the influx to Denmark, but it will have an impact on those companies which will now be able to keep a good employee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153725	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153726	Yes, I am not surprised that the Minister responds as the Minister does, but this is a relaxation of foreign policy. It is true that, before the elections, we had a strict policy on foreigners, among other things. We changed from having a very significant integration policy to having a return policy. We need to behave with these people who come to Denmark and need accommodation and protection, and we also think in the Danish People's Party that if you have a working capacity and can use it while you are here and contribute to the community, you might actually also create a fortune that you can bring home later and use to rebuild your home country, it is actually very positive. However, what is being proposed in the Finance Act here, and what is now coming through, is that you can maintain your residence in Denmark if you are in employment, and that is a challenge, because it makes you compromise on the return policy. Now you can get out, and you will also get some people who are desperate to be allowed to keep a job; who are desperate and will work at any cost if they do not want to be repatriated. Can the Minister not see that it may well be that it is called industrial policy, yes, that it is a labour force that can stay in a company, but that it is also some people who are in a terrible situation, because now it is suddenly their employer who decides whether they can stay in Denmark or not stay in Denmark. This is not about business policy at all; this is foreign policy. A decision has been made that when one's residence basis is no longer present in Denmark, one must of course go home. When what you have fled from is not there anymore, you have to go home with the skills that you can very much have while you have been in Denmark and use them in the home country you come from. But what we are doing with the scheme here is that now it is not us, the state, the rule book, who decide whether to return home, now it is the employer alone. Is it not a very, very great power to give to an employer to a worker?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153912	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153913	I would like to start by saying that there is not really much new in this. It is also the case today that if you no longer need protection, the authorities will withdraw the residence permit. If you have a job today, where you earn more than 35,000 kroner. a month, you can stay here on an occupational scheme. If you have an education that is in demand in Denmark, for example. As a nurse, you'll be able to stay here as well. What is new is that there will be a third option: if you have been in employment in the same place for two years before you have withdrawn your residence permit, you can stay here. I have just been trying to see how many of those who have had the residence permit withdrawn in recent years who have had two years of employment, and that is actually less than 2%. by those who have had it withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211153950	Yes, but now the minister would like to bet on the previous questioner before, and then we can bet on whether that number will not increase significantly in the future when we stand here in a year's time. I'm convinced it will. And that's why it's a challenge. I would also like to ask the Minister: does the Minister not think that there are some people and now we are talking about low-paid people, because here there is no ceiling on what they should earn per month, so it can also be low-paid people who are now in a situation where their entire residence base will depend on what their employer thinks their working capacity is worth?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154020	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154020-2	To this I would say that there are thousands of people in Denmark who are foreigners and who only have a residence in Denmark because they have a job. If they quit work, they must leave because their residence permit is linked to their employment. And there is nothing new about this today for thousands of people, and so it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154045	But the new thing is that now people who are here on asylum can continue to stay in Denmark. The reason for their stay is that they have fled from war, climate change or anything else. It has ceased; they no longer have a residence in Denmark. They may have a low-wage job. It may be that they drive out with pizzas, it may be that they do something else, which is a low-wage job, and then they may be allowed to stay in Denmark, only on the basis that they can continue to stay in that picture • to drive out with pizzas. The day the pizza baker tells them they can't continue driving out pizzas, the citizens must be sent home. That is why this is a significant relaxation of foreign policy. After all, it is not business policy, nor is it fair to those people who get so violently into the pockets of their employers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154127	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154128	I will start by saying that you can call it what you want. This is a change in the law on foreigners in that sense, of course, the questioner is right. We do this because we want to meet some business wishes in that sense, the government and myself are right. So let's not make it a fight for words. Then I would say that there is nothing new about refugees staying here if they are in employment. There are already arrangements where you can stay here and get a new residence basis. The new thing is that there will be a new system on which to obtain a residence permit. There are not so many who already jump on the money and the positive list, and I do not think there will be so many who jump on it here with a link to the labour market, because unfortunately there are not very many refugees who are actually in permanent employment. That is why our focus should really be: how do we get the refugees into employment? And there I think it is actually counterproductive if you say to the companies: if you spend time training and hiring someone Yes please!), we kick them out after two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154220	Thank you! There's no more time for this question. Thank you, sir. René Christensen, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, for which there are no further questions. The next question, and the last one in Question Time, is to the Minister for the Environment, asked by Mr Gundelach. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154234	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154237	Thank you. The question is this: does the Minister think it is okay that there are strong restrictions on the import of grinning meat from the Faroe Islands on the wrong grounds that grinning whales are an endangered species?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154253	Thank you for the question. The Grinder Whale is covered by the international CITES rules on species that are not necessarily endangered now, but where regulation of trade is required to ensure that this does not happen. It is therefore the potential harmful effect that international trade in whales, including laughing whales, can have on the stock that is the basis for regulation, and not the fact that the species is under threat. The questioner is right that the grinning whale is not an endangered species. This is shown in the global red list of plants and animal species which are rare and in danger of disappearing or which have already disappeared. The CITES Convention has been implemented in the EU by the EU-CITES Regulation and the EU has adopted stricter rules for the trade in whale meat to and from the EU than the CITES Convention provides because whales in the EU enjoy strict protection in the Habitats Directive. However, as stated in my reply to S 354 there is a special scheme for imports of grinning meat from the Faroe Islands to Denmark. The Danish scheme for importing grinning meat from the Faroe Islands is also an expression of an understanding of the particular challenges that the strict EU rules on trade in whale meat can create for the Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154412-2	Thank you. It is quite true, as the Minister says, that the strict restrictions are based on EU rules, and the European Union puts all whales in the same category, and therefore all whales become per. definition threatened even if they are not in reality. Under the auspices of the United Nations, a distinction is made between endangered and non-threatening whales, which is why the laughing whales are not on the list, because they are not an endangered species. That is why I think it is quite wrong for Denmark to have the restrictions that it has. Man is a predator. We've wiped out this kind of thing. 70% of all the mammals in the world, and of those we have allowed to live, we keep billions and billions locked up. We have reduced their lives to only one purpose: to become our food. We are talking about meat production, just as we are talking about car production. Think of the suffering we're creating. Think that a pig can feel love, longing and grief. Meat production is one of the greatest moral matters of our time. In that light, the laughing catch is actually exemplary. The whale is not being held in captivity. It's not gonna be forcibly fed, it's not gonna be forcibly inseminated. There is no meat production. So I would like to ask whether the Minister agrees with the overall view that grinder killings, compared with meat production, are in fact exceptional ecology, is exemplary animal welfare and, in that the meat should not be transported over half the world, is also much more environmentally friendly than meat production.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154603	I appreciate the questioner's trip around in how we produce. That is also why it is important for me to say that precisely in relation to this issue, the rules for the import of whale meat from the Faroe Islands to Denmark are, after all, rules that come from EU rules. That is why we cannot change them unilaterally from national level. So I am preoccupied with listening to what the questioner is suggesting of problem, and in this respect I also note that Faroese people who do not live in Denmark can bring up to 10 kg of grin meat in their luggage when travelling to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154643	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154644	Thank you. The fact that Denmark is a member of the European Union also influences the rules that exist in the European Union, which is why these rules could also be influenced. One thing you could also influence fairly quickly is that you get 5,000 kroner. fine for bringing whale meat to Denmark for the first time, 10,000 DKK. Second time. That's grotesque. So I just want to ask the Minister if she might be willing to join us in meeting and discussing these issues further at a meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154711	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154712	Well, thank you for the invitation to meet and discuss some rules that are, of course, complicated and which are not specifically about the grinder whales as endangered, but are all about ensuring that we take care of our animals in the world as best we can. I would also like to follow up in concrete terms what the questioner says, and we can meet and try to talk about the specific rules that the questioner is concerned with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154737	Then there is the possibility of a last round of questions if the questioner wants one more question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154742	I'm happy with that. I think it is quite wrong that meat from grinder whales, which has been produced more naturally, animal welfare-friendly, organic than other meat, is the meat on which we have the most restrictions when it is moved to Denmark. In my view, this is completely wrong and almost grotesque. So I am delighted that we can meet and discuss how we can solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154812	Thank you. Then the minister has the last word in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154813	Thank you. I would say, then, that there are requirements in general, including with other wild animals, both for protection and for regulation at all, so that is not specific to the laughing whales. But, of course, I am also concerned that we can have a sensible and good dialogue on this. Even if we have some EU rules that we do not intend to change on the Danish side, I think it is reasonable that we can meet and have a talk about the concrete thing that the questioner is concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154840	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment and to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154849	The debate has been opened, and the first to be on the platform is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Troels Ravn, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211154906	Thank you for the floor. I have looked forward to the first reading of the bill here, because there is a great deal of politics in this draft law, which shows that there is a difference between the priorities of the parliamentary parties. And the proposal also shows that we have a new government and thus a new direction for our society and our community. The bill contains three elements. The inheritance tax on the transfer of commercial enterprises is increased from 2020 to 15%, so that the residence and gift tax will again be the same for the transfer of an economic activity as for other assets. A legal requirement is introduced for a grace period and the grace period is extended from 15 to 30 years for companies that can be transferred with fiscal success. Then there is around the interest rate a change in the interest rate upon grace. The rate of grace for estate and inheritance charges shall be changed from the applicable rate of 1%. each year over the national bank's discount account, with a minimum of 3%. Annually, at the standard rate in the Corporate Tax Act, and in 2019 the interest rate was 2.7%. It is in fact the assessment that the standard rate is a better indication of the market rate. But back to the political. This bill is in several ways a very important bill for the Social Democratic Party. Social balance and the fight against inequality and major differences in people's living conditions go as a common thread through our legislative and policy proposals. And when it comes to taxes and charges, we have a strong focus on the fact that it is the widest shoulders that bear the heaviest burdens. At the same time, it is important for the Social Democratic Party that our companies have a good framework conditions so that they can create the jobs and the growth and development in Denmark, so that there is an incentive for people to be entrepreneurs and take an initiative. It is also important to create a good framework for companies that companies must continue to have good opportunities to sell or pass on. And that is precisely the balance and consideration of what is right and proper that the draft law here is about. The bourgeois government's reduction in the tax on housing and gifts resulted in tax reductions of 1 billion. kr. to the people who already have the most. With the reduction of the tax to 5%. The most affluent Danes were greatly favoured economically. And we say it quite clearly: we can spend the money more sensibly and much more reasonably. We want to invest in what is important to most people and which is also of huge importance to businesses, to business, to competitiveness and to productivity. We want to invest in children and young people, in school, in education, in retraining, in core welfare. And that is why, in the Social Democrats before the elections, we have said that we want to roll back the relaxation of the housing and gift tax, and that is what we are doing now with the bill here. We do it with open eyes, with an open mind, with a straight back. We are pleased to be able to turn our society and community in a new direction, for example, when we invest massively in primary, vocational and health education. And that is something that is of the utmost benefit to companies. I mean, we can spend the money better. Conversely, we must of course ensure that the tax administration and the tax system do not stand in the way of our Danish family-owned companies having good conditions for creating growth and contributing to society. I certainly also take seriously the concerns of both companies and employees that an heir cannot finance the tax payment. And it is also precisely because of the concerns that have been raised about liquidity that we are proposing to double the length of the grace period to 30 years, while at the same time guaranteeing companies access to the system with a legal requirement. In this way, it is possible for companies to pay the tax over a longer period than today, thus ensuring better liquidity. I also think it is important to stress that the Danish business community was in good shape before Løkke lowered the inheritance tax, and Danish business will continue to be in good shape when we roll the tax back to the previous level. In connection with L 76, it is also essential to say that an agreement has now been reached on a mandate for a group of experts to examine possible models for the valuation of family-owned enterprises related to the change of generation. The expert group shall provide the basis for a robust, objective valuation system based on a schematic valuation. So, with those words, I would say that the Social Democrats naturally support Bill L 76.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155422	Thank you. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155426	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It is not surprising that the Socialists support their own proposal. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a question. Now the Socialist rapporteur mentions that it is very important to ensure good conditions around the country and that the widest shoulders should bear the most. But does the rapporteur not consider jobs to be important? In private companies, 850,000 Danes are employed. These are jobs that the Social Democratic Party is now putting at risk with this tax rise... a very marked tax increase, a tax increase on a triple tax increase. Does the Social Democrats not think that people's jobs are important, and does the Social Democrats not think that it is also to ensure the welfare of the Danes that they actually have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155509	Thank you for the question. Yes, it is a concern or, you might say, timely care in relation to the creation of jobs, of growth that we fully agree on. For the Social Democratic Party, it is vitally important that we have good jobs. That is what by its very nature gives people jobs, so that we can be self-supporting, makes that every day we have something to stand up to. So we fully share the ambition that we should ensure that our companies have good framework conditions. And there's nothing, absolutely nothing in this bill that indicates that we shouldn't still have a business in good shape. We had that before 2017, and we want it to be so with the increase in the gift fee in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155603	After all, the Social Democrats also raised the generational tax on the last time they had government power when the Social Democrats abolished the property tax rate. Now the rapporteur believes that jobs are important, but the 850,000 jobs in family-owned companies are being put at risk by tripled the taxation of family-owned companies by the generational change. What's the difference? In other words, the 850,000 jobs are all over the country, and do the Socialists think that instead of finding jobs elsewhere, they should rather go to the public? What is the idea of trying to bother private family-owned companies so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155637	Well, we have just a social balance in the proposal here. For example, we are also making a legal claim on the deferral scheme and doubling the period so that this tax can be abolished over 30 years. This means a great deal in terms of liquidity. After all, we are well aware that liquidity is a key word in any company, any company, and it is important that we ensure liquidity. And so do we with this proposal. It might be tempting to ask the rapporteur of the Left what it is then in relation to the social balance and to what we are also getting financed with this tax that the Left will roll back. For example, the municipalities receive 2.7 billion. kr. more to the general welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155718	It's hard to answer when there's no more rounds. But we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, who has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155727	Thank you. Yes, of course, it is easy just to ask questions when there is no opportunity to answer it. However, I can reassure the Socialist rapporteur that the Left has presented a fully funded financial law proposal. The rapporteur is certainly aware of this. The Socialist rapporteur is concerned about the conditions for 850,000 private jobs in family-owned companies. Then I cannot understand what the answer to that concern is. The answer is, of course, that the Social Democratic Party will triple the tax • triple the tax to be paid when a company changes owner because it changes owner from father to daughter or mother to son. The concern's response from the Social Democratic Party is that instead of drawing 1 DKK. You will now have to withdraw 3 kroner. Out. Does it not worry the Socialists when there are business owners who say that the extra tax that is coming now is the money that should have been invested in the company for the next 2 or 3 years? Doesn't that concern the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155834	I say that we share an ambition to create a good framework for our businesses and that it is clearly an ambition for social democracy that we have good businesses and that we can create jobs. This is the basis for our welfare society, just as it is the basis for our welfare society that we invest in education. The other day I was at a meeting with the business community in Esbjerg, and it came as a common thread through our dialogue that having a good primary school, having good vocational training, recruiting well-qualified employees are absolutely necessary for our companies. That's what we also ensure with the social balance in this bill. There is nothing to indicate that with this proposal we should not continue to have a top-level economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155924	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155925	In other words, I have to understand that the Socialist tax rapporteur stands and says that the companies have to pay 1 billion. kr. more in tax per year, does not affect the framework conditions. Honestly, the rapporteur cannot even believe that. Will the rapporteur not just be so honest as to say that this proposal will mean less investment in Danish companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211155950	No, and exactly 1 billion. kr. is a key phrase in that the bourgeois government, the Løkke government, gave the most wealthy people in society 1 billion. kr. in tax reliefs by reducing the tax on accommodation and gifts. We are now rolling it back to the level at which it was before it was reduced. There's absolutely nothing to indicate that we're gambling with anything. On the contrary, we are creating revenue to invest in what matters to companies, namely training and retraining.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160028	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160031	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that what the Social Democrats said before the elections was that they wanted to roll back the relaxations, and I have to sign: that is what they are doing. We can count on the Socialists when it comes to tax increases. It appears loud and glaring from this prospectus from before the election, Denmark is too small for big differences. So it's okay. But on the front page it is written that you want to raise the general tax on property and gifts, i.e. inheritance tax to 30%. for ordinary people. Does it also stand by the fact that the Social Democratic Party will raise it from 15 to 30 per cent? For ordinary Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160114	This bill, L 76, deals with the estate and gift tax, and here we stand firm. We're raising the estate and gift fee. We roll it back to the level it was before the bourgeois government lowered it in 2017. Now that's the first question the Left asks in this round. I can then ask, and then the rapporteur has the opportunity to reply, whether the Left does not agree that we also strengthen the framework conditions of companies by going out and investing massively in vocational training and retraining with our draft financial legislation. And what is it that the Left wants to roll back when, for example, unlike the bourgeois government's austerity policy, we give the municipalities 2.7 billion? kr. more to core welfare? Is it really not also measures that benefit companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160218	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. That didn't make me much smarter. I ask once again: is it still the policy of the Social Democratic Party to raise the ordinary housing and gift tax, i.e. the inheritance tax for the Danes, for people, from 15 to 30%?? That can be answered yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160235	What I'm dealing with with with this bill, L 76, is that we're raising the estate and gift tax from 5%. to 15%, so that it gets the level from before the bourgeois government reduced the gift tax. That's what this bill is about. And then I am delighted that with this bill we are funding a significant boost to our welfare. And it is true, as the questioner says, that the Socialists can be trusted. We are now doing what we promised before the elections, and a lot of people have the prospect of raising their welfare: 1,000 more nurses, more educators for our children, more dignified care for the elderly, strengthened police, better tax control.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160323	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160326	I think it is a little funny that the rapporteur is talking about inequality, because this tax is something unequal, since one and the other is going after Danish family businesses. It does not go for funds, it does not go for listed companies, it does not go for public companies. It goes on its own for family- and private-owned companies, which may have a lot, very difficult to do, for example. a farm to pass on the business to a son or daughter with such a heavy tax burden. What is it that the Social Democrats have so basically against the Danish family, the Danish family companies and Danish agriculture that they try to strangle them with taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160403	It is true, as the questioner also indicates, that for social democracy it is important that we have equality, that we address increasing inequality and that we create good life opportunities for all people in our society. And that's why there's social balance in this proposal. It is also very good that the questioner mentions agriculture and farmers, because in general we must ensure that our business environment is sound. And with agriculture: well, we are now also providing agriculture with an economic back-up, especially young farmers, because we are now going to introduce a new model of sales promotion, and it is also being supported by the government. This means, for example, that: Young farmers will be able to finance the purchase of their farms in the future. This is a very, very good legislative proposal put forward by the previous government, which we support and which means a great deal, including for our rural areas; so that we can still have life and growth and activities in our rural areas, a good point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160507	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160509	The two things outweigh each other. But we can then look at private companies that are not agriculture. The interesting thing is that the countries around us, Norway, Sweden, etc., have removed this tax, I think even with social democratic forces in Sweden, because you can see that it is wrong and that it is discrimination. How are we to ensure that private business in Denmark does not just move across the border in a global world and establish itself there, as we have this tax that is extremely distorted and that exists only in Denmark and not in our neighbouring countries? The rapporteur keeps saying that this will give more money to schools and to one thing or another, but if companies just move out of the country, where will the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160551	As I have already said a few times in the debate here, there is no indication that our industry is losing strength or getting worse, on the contrary. We will still be in top shape, including with our business community, even after we raise the housing and gift tax. And there's nothing to indicate a relocation. This is estimated to be about 400 companies. This is an important topic to discuss, certainly, but with regard to the specific framework conditions we need to see it in a whole. And creating a good framework for our businesses is also investing in welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160630	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160632	We are constantly hearing this about the fact that heirs of companies have to pay the same tax as everyone else, and I totally agree with that. But can't we just get confirmation from Mr. Troels Ravn, that if an heir of a company withdraws money to himself in terms of either pay or dividends, does the person pay exactly the same tax as everyone else? So what is at stake here is not that the heir is free from tax if the heir draws money to himself, but it is that some tax must be paid on the business itself; it must be deducted from the business. And that money is not available to invest in the company and create jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160724	I certainly recognise that perspective. That is also why we seriously look at the concerns of both employees and companies in terms of financing this tax payment. And because of the concerns that have been raised about liquidity, which is a key word, we propose to double the length of the grace period to 30 years, while at the same time guaranteeing companies access to the system with a legal requirement. I think this is a very good and important element, because we are common about due diligence in terms of liquidity.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160801	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160804	But whether you have to pay over a 10-year period, a 20-year period or a 30-year period does not change the amount to be added, and that is why the question is still valid. If you draw money out to yourself through pay or dividends, you pay the tax that everyone else does, that is, if you want the money for your private consumption. However, if you leave the money in the company for investment, then it is still the case that the Social Democrats will attack that money and make sure that they get into the treasury instead of doing good in the Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160840	We believe that with this grace arrangement we ensure that there is still liquidity in companies, and that is very important. What is right and fair? I am quite sure that the questioner and I are looking at this differently from the social balance, in relation to the issue of tackling rising social inequality. Well, I'm standing with a straight back, open mind and open eyes and I'm happy with this proposal because there's this social balance. We are now financing something. A large number of people will benefit from the fact that we are now funding a financial law which raises our general level of welfare, set against the fact that a few people received a huge tax relief from the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160925	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160927	I understand from the rapporteur that in order to find this billion kroner to raise welfare, as they say, you have to punish companies and take more money out of their pockets. Well, out of the 1,150 billion. kr., there is, couldn't one find places there and find the money other than by punishing the companies is it correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211160951-2	No, that is not correct, and I always believe that the author's party and my party will disagree on that rhetoric. Well, it has nothing to do with punishment. We have a tax system in which the widest shoulders bear the greatest burdens. We make sure that we have an orderly society where we can fight rising inequality. With regard to social balance, I will refer again to my meeting on Monday with the business community in Esbjerg, which is looking for a good primary school, vocational training and well-qualified people so that they can recruit these people. In order to strengthen education and welfare in general, we must provide funding. We are doing this by taking the money from a totally impossible tax relief that was given to a few people who received 1 billion. kr. More. The billion dollars we are now bringing back to what we believe in, namely a strengthening of general welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161043	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161045	The fact is that because of a deeply misguided immigration policy pursued by social democracy, we spend more than 30 billion. kr. a year on non-Western immigration. The Social Democrats will not take up a fight with that. This means that billions will continue to be thrown out to non-western immigrants who come to the country, while at the same time raising costs for Danish business. It is deeply shameful, and it is deeply reprehensible. So there is a reason why you cannot find the money, namely that you spend it on foreigners. You could also have greater ambitions in terms of consultants and save it, but neither will you. It has only been set at 800 million. kr., even if you say you can find 3 billion. kr. So the money seems to be there, but it's just a priority to punish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161126	I don't know if I'm a little surprised. I actually am not, but I do not think that this is a question of foreign policy to which the questioner would like to refer. I mean, it's not about the punishment of an industry either. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a top-level business community. We have a lot of good companies that create jobs and growth every day for the benefit of all of us. We also have a political responsibility to distribute a wealth in society that we are all helping to create, among other things. by ensuring that we get our young people educated, that we have a good primary school and that we have educators for our children, and that we also get some well-educated people that the business community can recruit. It is really timely care in relation to what we call framework conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161210	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161213	Thank you. It sounds like we might have to bring the debate down to a slightly lower and fundamental level. Because when you turn a company into a generation, there are two parameters that are important: the value of which you are taxed and the rate you have to pay on the basis of that valuation. Can the rapporteur not confirm that back in February 2015, the Social Democrats removed what was called the wealth tax circular, which made it predictable about how the company was taxed? The value was relatively low, and then there was a high rate. The rapporteur goes on and says that this was such a unilateral tax relief to the very richest, but what actually happened with the former bourgeois majority was a little that instead of reintroducing the wealth tax circle, it simply reduced the rate. Well, there was a higher value, but a lower rate. Previously, it was the other way around. So that is not true when the rapporteur says that it is just such a one-sided tax relief for the richest people you roll back and that now Danish business is just as healthy as it has always been. No, they have been put exactly as badly as the old Socialist government did. For the sake of history, can we not just get confirmation from the rapporteur that instead of reintroducing the wealth tax circle, we reduced the rate? You could've done it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161320	However, I am very pleased that an agreement has now been reached on the terms of reference of a group of experts to examine the possible models for the valuation of family-owned companies in the context of generational change. This group of experts shall, where possible, provide the basis for a robust, objective valuation system based on a schematic valuation. The family-owned companies are an important part of the business community in Denmark, and therefore it is important that they are valued as objectively, transparently and precisely as possible. That is, in fact, what will be ours, it can be said, to deal with the problems outlined by the questioner in his question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161406	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161409	Well, it's empty talk, because it costs money to make a valuation that's predictable and lower than it was otherwise. After all, a financial law has committed itself to finding 1 billion. kr., and then you just had to reinstate the old treasure circular for example. Then it would cost a lot of money. You didn't choose to do that. Well, it's all about getting money in the box. There has been no predictability. You haven't just rolled back the old tax relief, no, you've rolled back your old rise. After all, we cancelled the Socialist increase from February 2015 by lowering the rate. Now you have both a poor valuation and a higher rate. Now the Danish business community has been put at a disadvantage. And I am surprised that one can then stand on the platform and say that framework conditions are important and that companies will be healthy from this. It costs them 1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161452	But this bill contains a deferral arrangement with a legal requirement, and we're also saying now that we're dating an independent expert group and looking at this valuation. And so it is actually the case that we create a revenue of 1 billion. kr., and we believe that we can spend that money better by giving it in tax relief to those people in our society who are wealthy already; that we can spend that money on the general welfare with the examples that I have already mentioned. So we do this with open mind, with open eyes, with straight back.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161531	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161533	It is of course interesting that the rapporteur thinks that it is the carpenter, the electrician and the baker who are wealthy. We shall ensure during the committee procedure that it is known whether or not it is a believer. It is quite fantastic to see the rapporteur stand there and be quite proud to charge 1 extra billion. kr., so be proud of this huge tax rise. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur expect more family-owned companies to come in Denmark or fewer family-owned companies in Denmark in the coming years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161610	There's nothing to indicate that with this bill we're making it harder to create businesses, sell businesses or pass on businesses. There's no indication of that. It is true that I am quite comfortable with the fact that we have raised the general welfare of Denmark with this revenue, and that the carpenter, electrician and painter get some framework conditions where they can recruit some skilled young people who have taken a vocational training where there is some quality. That quality must be financed. When I have talked about the tax relief of 1 billion. kr. It is because it is the very largest companies in Denmark that have benefited most from the tax relief granted to them by the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161654	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161655	It is quite fantastic to hear a fellow Member say in this Chamber that it is a good framework for a company, while at the same time raising the tax significantly; that a tax increase of 1 billion. kr. is equal to creating good framework conditions for those who suffer. That is simply a fantastic wording. I would like to ask the rapporteur: if it now turns out in the coming years that there are problems with generational change and that there will be fewer family-owned companies, will the Social Democrats be in favour of adjusting tax collections in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161732	As a government-supporting party, which we hope to be for a very long time, we will always exercise due care in relation to the situation of the country, the companies and the people. And then it's fantastic to hear that we're raising the tax. We are raising the tax to the level it had before 2017, i.e. to a level that the bourgeois government left behind for many years. There is no indication that more jobs were created because the tax was reduced, nor is there any indication that fewer jobs will be created because we are raising the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161812	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161814	Now we have heard the Socialists say many times that it is not at all an economic problem for companies to have an additional tax bill. Let's try to make this a little concrete. We can take a business, for example. be a craft enterprise with a turnover of a few million kroner a year, which is perhaps 10 million. kr. Worth it. You may have a building and a few vehicles, and then you have a value of the earnings you get in the future. It seems a relatively realistic example that such a company can be 10 million. kr. Worth it. That means paying 1.5 million. kr. in inheritance tax. It's not money that the guy who owns the company has. What he inherits is not money, it is a business, and he has to pull money out of the company to pay the inheritance tax. When he pulls money out of the business, he's also taxed. That is to say, he has to pull almost twice as much out of the business as he has to pay in inheritance tax. This means that for a company which is approx. 10 million kr. Worth it, you can get up to pay small 3 million. kr. in inheritance tax. Will Mr. Troels Ravn really say about a company with a turnover of perhaps 2 million. kr. A year, which is struggling to make profits, it is not at all a problem for them to pay 3 million. kr.? Does it really mean nothing to the economy of companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161930	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211161931	Well, the conservative questioner must also have in mind that the level we roll back to is the level we had up to 2017. We are now making a grace arrangement so that you and your company will have the opportunity to pay this charge over 30 years. You get a legal right to that and there's an interest rate that's very reasonable. There's nothing in this that indicates it's poison to our business community. And we would never take that risk with our bill either. This is a socially balanced legislative proposal which gives our companies a good framework in that we now have the opportunity to stop the reduction that the bourgeois government stood for and to strengthen the welfare of the municipalities with educators, schools, vocational training and retraining.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162028	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162032	Thanks for those punks. But still away: if you as a company have to pay 3 million. kr., do the Social Democrats seriously believe that this is not an economic problem for a company? What would it be like for Mr. Knox? Troels Ravn to pay, for example, 1 million. kr., which is like this about one and a half times his annual salary as a member of parliament? Wouldn't that be a financial problem for Mr. Troels Ravn? I mean, it's crazy that you can say that such large bills aren't an economic challenge for all these small businesses. And the answer to that is not to talk about strengthening welfare. That's to relate to these numbers that are very, very large.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162111	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162112	This grace arrangement is incorporated into the draft law, which ensures that there is liquidity in the company, in the company, over these years. We increase it from 15 years to 30 years. And then the questioner says it's plunder. This is a little interesting, because the questioner and the author's party have helped to make the savings and cuts in the welfare society. And I do not know whether the questioner thinks it is plunder that we are adding 2.7 billion. kr. more to the municipalities. Well, the fact that I was out visiting Varde Municipality and talking to the mayor about the fact that the next few years have 20-30 million. kr. more for welfare, I don't consider plunder.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162152	Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162154	Thank you. After all, I am listening to the rapporteur's speech, and one of the things I note is that the rapporteur says that it is the rich, the wealthy who are now being hit. I have also read through the hearings, and I hear that the rapporteur also says that there is no problem for these companies in paying this tax. It's still rare that we use that turn in here in the Folketing. We sometimes say that they can overcome it, but to say that it is no problem is something else. And when you look at the consultation answers, which come from the people who represent all the family-owned companies, whether it is in the forests or it is in rural areas, or wherever it is, then they also draw attention to the major problems it will cause them. Can the rapporteur not try to explain to me how the rapporteur concludes that companies are wealthy and rich?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162258	I have not said that it is the rich and wealthy who are affected, but I have said that it was the very wealthiest people in our country who received a tax relief from the bourgeois government of about 1 billion. kr., when the housing and gift tax was reduced from 15 to 5 per cent. That's what I said. In this bill we have a grace arrangement, we are now setting up a group of experts on valuation, and we are also going out to support the mortgage model. These are various measures that help to carry in the right direction. That is why we have a balanced legislative proposal here. Well, it's the level before 2017 that we roll the estate and gift tax back to. The Danish business community was in top shape, it remains, and it will be with this bill as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162357	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162400	If I'm gonna understand it this way, I'm gonna say this, and then I'm gonna get mr. After all, Troels Ravn was able to correct me that I was wrong and that in reality, when the previous government gave tax relief, it was for the wealthy and wealthy, but that those whom the government has now chosen to take them away are not the rich and the wealthy? Then I have to say, and that's what I could learn from what was said... that the baker for blacksmith has been corrected. Well, you can't come after the people you thought benefited from it, so now you just go after some quite different people. That, on the other hand, makes more sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162434	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162435	I think it is understandable when I say that it was the absolutely largest companies that got the biggest gains and the absolutely most wealthy people in our society who got the biggest gains, the biggest tax cuts when the bourgeois government reduced the tax on housing and gifts from 15 to 5 per cent. and at the same time cut down on the general welfare of the municipalities and the training programmes with its re-priority contribution, so that educational institutions, for example in rural areas, were brought to their knees. That's what we're gonna do now, overall.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162516	Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162518	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. If you have a larger family-owned company, there are also typically very many employees. The many employees are happy that they work for a family-owned company and not a capital fund. But if there is to be a generation change, there is the greater risk that employees will work for a fund. Because you have to pay 15%. In the case of tax on generational change, it has to be taken out of own funds, and it is not necessarily possible to afford that. That's one of the things you can see that Danish Metal and 3F are very worried about, which is why I have to hear the rapporteur: is it Danish Metal and 3F and all of us in the Chamber who are on the wrong track and do not understand the point that we are all getting happier and richer by doing this maneuver? Or can the rapporteur explain whether it is Danish Metal and 3F who are on the wrong track when they come to the government with sharp criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162618	When the questioner now mentions capital funds, we should not correct for blacksmiths, as the previous questioner said, because capital funds are different, also in their way of doing business. It's not just such a scare picture that is, of capital funds. But there is absolutely nothing to indicate that there are companies that will be taken over by capital funds on top of this bill or be flagged out. I don't know exactly what makes the questioner happier and more rich, but I just want to say that from my standing position and that's why I'm standing here with a straight back does it make it that we can now present a Finance Act, where we get funding more nurses, more educators, a better primary school, the upgrading of employees, good framework conditions for our business, that I am happy with this bill, that is, because it is in balance, both in relation to the broadest shoulders carrying the greatest burdens and we get funding a general welfare promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162717	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162720	We are talking about the fact that it is becoming more difficult to maintain Danish family-owned companies in the hands of the family, which, of course, means that you also have some heart with them. Social democracy tends to be very advanced in the shoes when it comes to criticism of foreign capital funds in particular when they enter Denmark and invest. But here we are talking about Danish Metal and 3F, which is out with a criticism of the government. That is why the rapporteur must be able to answer yes or no: have 3F and Dansk Metal completely misunderstood this matter, or has the rapporteur completely misunderstood this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162757	I am not talking about misunderstandings, I am talking about approaches and attitudes, about values. For me, it is a value, because social democracy is a value, that it goes as a common thread through our legislative proposal, that we want social balance, that we have to give people good life opportunities, while we also have a business and companies where it must pay to set something in motion, create jobs. That's what we all depend on. I do not know who it is that says that with this proposal it will be harder to keep Danish-owned family companies on Danish soil and on Danish hands. However, I understand that there are different views.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162836	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162838	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur speaks of social balance. I just want to say that I think this is really out of balance. It is not least in relation to Denmark's outlying areas and local areas, where there are a great many small family-owned companies that are very much affected by this retreat problem. Does the rapporteur not fear that this will cost Danish jobs? Can the rapporteur guarantee that not a single company will fire employees as a result of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211162925	I do not think that this is the way to issue guarantees, but in relation to what we can see, estimate and have figures for, there is absolutely nothing to indicate that the roll-back of a tax at the level that the bourgeois government also had in 2017 should mean that our companies will have a reduced framework conditions. But now that the questioner himself is also putting rural areas into play and it is important that we have a Denmark in balance and that we have rural businesses I am really glad that we now also ensure that young farmers can get easier when they change their generations or get their foot inside a farm so that you can re-generate a farm with our selling pawn letter model. So it is again an example of due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163010	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163013	I'd say this is a lack of due diligence. It is indeed the case that three out of four private jobs in rural and local areas in Denmark are within family-owned companies. Is it not naive to imagine that this is not going to cost jobs and that there are not a number of these companies who, as a result of this, and because they are already disadvantaged, follow the example, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov just mentioned, with a carpenter's company, a metal company or a small company with very few employees, is at risk of getting a million bill in connection with the transfer to family and will choose to close the company?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163052	There it is, of course, that we have built-in elements that ensure the liquidity of the deferment arrangements etc. A group of experts shall look at valuation. I cannot help telling you again that the red thread when I meet the business community, for example. in Esbjerg on Monday, there is a lack of qualified employees. We, as politicians, are asked how we can ensure that we get good vocational training and a good primary school, where students get good guidance and practical training, etc. The reality is, of course, even if my words are met with laughter from parts of the Chamber, because you may not be aware of the context that there is the context that good framework conditions are also about us constantly being able to recruit well-qualified employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163139	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163142	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to ask the rapporteur about what the rapporteur has said several times, namely that this is just like this: Lord God, it is a small roll-back to the old era when the generational tax was also 15%. Would the rapporteur also like to reflect a little on the fact that, in fact, when Mr. Benny Engelbrecht was the tax minister, who ended up with an announcement in the wealth tax circular, which led to a similar revenue to the Treasury, compared to putting the creation of value on the assessment of the companies that were also in a generational situation. After all, it has not been re-regulated, but now we come and re-regulate where we have tried to relax in relation to the companies, so that we will in fact end up having to pay both the increased circular property tax and at the same time triple the generational tax. Then I'd like to ask you about what's called controlled bankruptcy. Is the rapporteur not concerned that this opens up a barn door to what is called controlled bankruptcies, because fiscally money can be made by being controlled into bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163251	I don't think anyone's heard me say "bare" or "rude." I recognise the debate; I recognise that there are different views on this. I also think, as the questioner says, that it is very good to reflect on things. And that's what we're doing with this bill because we're coming all the way around, and we're seeing things in a context. And precisely in relation to the valuation, I have also had it in my speech today that we ensure action so that we also have that part under control. One cannot compare with previous times in this way, but the challenge today is that after many years of reduction policy we must have a general boost, for example of our schools, education, vocational training, retraining, and we must have police, tax control and more educators. We need a lot of things because we have saved, saved and saved, and the author's party has helped to do so. This is the context in which it must also be seen, and it may well be that it is difficult to understand that there are at least some who laugh at it from below. I think we should reflect on that a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163400	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163402	Now that the rapporteur mentions a large number of things that must be affordable, the rapporteur forgot a very important element. And that's why the government chooses to spend 150 million at the same time as this. kr. in the Finance Act to make it free for foreigners to receive Danish education in the country's language schools. The little flower I think maybe you forgot or should you call it a thistle? Perhaps the rapporteur should also answer that question. I received no answers to my two questions: controlled bankruptcies; no answer, wealth tax circular; no answer. The rapporteur said that it was obscene or that it had been investigated and so on. But these are birds on the roof, sir. rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163439	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163440	The questioner must assess this, and he is in his right to assess it. I said that this cannot be compared with previous times. The questioner mentioned Benny Engelbrecht at one point. I am talking about what we are dealing with today and what we are starting with with L 76. And to a previous questioner I replied that I could not see what it had to do with foreign policy. But it is true that we are making a number of efforts, also in relation to those who are here in Denmark. Refugees, immigrants and migrants, who need to be here for a while, we are making an effort to get up-qualified because the business community is looking for labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163518	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163520	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteur for his speech. Sometimes Google is your friend, and if you google the inheritance fee, it's been a long time since I've seen a google search where there's almost been red warning lights. Actually, I haven't really seen so many hits on anything where so many warn, I'd say. What is basically at stake is that some rather heavy trade unions simply warn that the government's plan for a higher inheritance tax will cost jobs. I would like to know whether this is not a matter of concern to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163605	On the other hand, I do not need to google my answer or get inspiration for my answer. Because, as I have said several times in the debate here, there is nothing to indicate fortunately, because then we would not have done it, that our business community should be brought to its knees or have problems with this bill. The widest shoulders must bear the greatest burdens, and we must think in terms of framework conditions, and this is what we are doing. I recognise that there are organisations of interest, that there are political parties, that there are parties out there who disagree with us, but we are doing what we said before the elections, and that is why, of course, we fully support L 76.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163640	Does Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard wish to speak again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163645	So I have to understand that the rapporteur is not concerned now when Danish Industry, Danish Crafts, Danish Business, Agriculture & Food, 3F, Danish Metal and many more say that the government's proposals will cost jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163705	Yes, the questioner must understand that I am not concerned, but I am glad that we have the debate. I am also pleased that we have some stakeholders who are close to us, and I am holding many meetings every week in my office, where some of the mentioned ones are visiting and where we exchange views on this, and I am also very pleased that many of the stakeholders mentioned, as the questioner mentioned here, have taken very good note of our draft financial legislation and agree with us that the general welfare promise is important and that it also affects the framework conditions of companies positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163738	Then there's no more sign-ins for Mr. Knox. Troels Ravn. That is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211163749	Thank you. With this bill, the government wants to increase the taxation of Danish family-owned companies by 1 billion. kr. per year or in immediate effect: 1.3 billion; kr. a year. It is a quite significant increase in taxes, in fact it is a threefold increase in taxes. Who are the family-owned companies? Well, it can be large, honorable companies such as Grundfos, Mærsk, LEGO, or it can be the local inn, craftsman or farmer. Characteristic for the Danish family-owned companies is that they are located around the country and that they employ about 850,000 Danes throughout the country. One might wonder why the government wants to raise taxes for these companies, which contribute growth and prosperity in Denmark. What does the government want to achieve with this increase in taxation? Do you want companies to leave Denmark? Do we want businesses to be dismantled and jobs to be closed down? Or do you want companies to be sold into capital funds? Yes, I am well aware that the fund's association is of course in good contact with the government, but what typically happens when the funds buy Danish family companies? Well, Rasmus Kristian Feldthusen, professor at the University of Copenhagen, says specifically: "The experience shows that buying from abroad by Danish family-owned companies carries a high risk of larger or smaller parts of these being moved out of the country. This means that both local communities and Denmark lose not only jobs but also development because the company contributes to economic growth where it is established. The larger family-owned companies will thus have an incentive to sell to foreign capital funds with job losses in Denmark. But the small local inn or master craftsman will not have that opportunity. Their option is simply to fire their employees and close the company. There is no doubt that this bill will cost jobs throughout Denmark. When, at the same time, the government, with the Finance Act, envisages further tax and tax increases, yes, it is poison for Danish jobs. The government chooses to change further the definition of related family to which the company can be transferred with the rule. This means that we are financially punishing childless people, as they cannot be allowed to change the generational scheme to siblings, nephews or nieces in the future. The government extends the grace scheme with a claim that it should address the economic challenges for the family-owned companies, but the fact is that the money has to be paid. This will be looked at by banks when granting loans to companies. So in relation to the financing of investments it will continue to harm the company. For those companies which do not either sell to a capital fund or close the company but actually find the money in the company, this drain of capital will often lead to a lack of investment in research. This affects the company's competitiveness and will eventually cost jobs in Denmark. In addition, there is uncertainty about the valuation. Since the former tax minister, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht abolished the property tax rate in 2015, increased the tax base of the family-owned companies, and at the same time created an uncertainty as to how much tax the company actually has to pay. Nor was that uncertainty resolved by this bill. And now both the tax base and the percentage share have increased. Can you just pull the money out of the company that you have to pay in the generational tax? No, you can't. For when the next generation has to pay the tax, they have to pay the dividend tax on the money they withdraw from the company and therefore much more money has to be withdrawn from the company than the tax rate is. For example: A generational change tax of 5% meant that on average a company in the C-25 index would have to pay 53 per cent if they were to have a generational change. of own funds, so that the capital loss is significantly greater than the generational change tax. The Social Democrats tend to push the wise men ahead in the debate on the change of generation. In 2017, the Economic Council was critical of the reduction of the generational tax, but the Social Democrats choose to reproduce only part of the wise men's statements. They forget the part where they argue for the reduction of the generational tax. The view of the viewers is that if the capital markets do not function properly and it is not possible to finance the tax payment, a lower inheritance tax may be beneficial as a result of increased liquidity at the time of the transfer. And further they write: "This may, in principle, constitute an argument that a lower tax on family transfers is efficiency and productivity improvement. So the criticism of the wise men was not clear, and it has to be said that a great many smaller operators are experiencing that the capital markets are not functioning properly. The government's schedule for that bill is 2 days for committee reading. In addition, there has been a very short consultation period. It must be lawless. We cannot possibly reach a sufficiently thorough committee on this tax increase of two days. I think that, in view of the quality of the law, the parties to the agreement should consider a longer timetable and consider a sunset clause. In the Left we want to ensure growth throughout Denmark. We think it is positive that we have family-owned companies that contribute significantly to prosperity, growth and jobs in Denmark. We believe that the government's proposal to increase the tax on family-owned companies by over 1 billion. kr. is harmful to Denmark and we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164314	Thank you, we say to the rapporteur. There's a single line and it's coming from sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164320	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Is it not true that the Economic Council, in its report "Productivity 2017', states that the reduced tax may have negative socio-economic effects, for example, in relation to: to reduce productivity because companies are not encouraged to use the most efficient forms of management and ownership? And the OECD is also ready in its January 2019 assessment, where they write that the tax favoritism of generational change within the family hampers entrepreneurship and investment. Is the rapporteur aware of these quotes and what is the rapporteur's position on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164406	One would almost think that the rapporteur had not really heard what I said, because I did deal with it in the speech. I just said that the Socialists are always pushing the wise men before them in this discussion and highlighting this report from 2017, but forgetting to read further down the page where it says: If the capital markets are not working properly and it is not possible to borrow finance tax payments, a lower inheritance tax can be beneficial as a result of strengthened liquidity at the time of the transfer of the business. A little further down they write: This can in principle constitute an argument that a lower tax on family transfers is efficiency and productivity enhancing. So that's only half a truth, sir. Troels Ravn here is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164442	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164444	But isn't it true that with our element of grace we also double the time from 15 years to 30 years we are strengthening the opportunities to maintain the healthy liquidity of the company? The OECD says this quite clearly. It's not like reading down anymore. They are quite clear in their assessment. They write that tax favoritism of generational change within the family hampers entrepreneurship and investment. So it's a two-sided sword.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164521	It has to be said that such a deferral does not mean a great deal. You're about to have to pay a bill. This means that that money cannot be borrowed into the company to invest for. And there have been several stories about different companies coming out and saying that it costs us for investment purposes. When it costs a company for investment, it also costs growth and jobs, because it means that we reduce the competitiveness of Denmark. I want Danish companies to do well in international competition, and I want us to have jobs throughout the country. That is why the Left cannot support the increase in the generational tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164555	Thank you, we say to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, and then we shall give the floor to Mr Schack Elholm. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211164559	Thank you. I think it is more important to start with the background and go a little further back than 2017, as the Socialist rapporteur did. In February 2015, as a thief in the night literally, around midnight came a press release saying that you would abolish what is called the wealth tax Circulation. This led to a more unpredictable valuation. Before, there was a good calculation method and you could get a good valuation which was lower than if it was not there. Then nothing came instead, and it happened, when the election later came, that the blue parties went to the polls to want to reinstate this circular. When we were sitting and negotiating, we came to see that we could look at the value, but we could also look at the rate, and it actually turned out that the wealth tax circle typically favoured companies with high goodwill, which is typically not the smaller companies. Therefore, we chose instead to spend the money on lowering the rates, in recognition that it is both what you are taxed and what you are taxed with, that is, the rate of what is important. So we put the movement down. It was not a one-sided tax reduction for those to understand were the richest, although it is also carpenters, masons and everything else, but more about a discussion whether to look at the value or to look at the movement. With this bill, the lower rate is also rolled back, but you don't reinstate what's called the wealth tax Circulation, so you don't look at a more predictable valuation. Now you do not have the lower value or the lower rate only a higher tax than you had before 2015. So it is deeply harmful. I think it has to be admitted that the valuation of a company is naturally also an important part of this debate, and it is said by the Socialists that a study has been initiated. Well, thank you, it's birds on the roof, as my colleague said. You could start by getting that straight. A commitment had been made to find 1 billion. kr., and then you say you're gonna look at the value later, but it's been over with this bill. So what's the problem with making a higher rate, i.e. triples it to 15%.? Yes, it is that it provides a huge capital drain in our companies and many companies will simply not be able to survive a triple rate. Many times this will mean that you will drain your own funds with a great deal of money. I'll try to give an example of that. If you imagine that you have a company with equity of 52 million. kr. kr., who has to pay inheritance tax of 15%, then it is 105 million. kr., you have to pull out of the business. There is already twice what is in own funds. However, in order to be able to pay the 105 million. kr. After all, you have to get some dividends that will be taxed at 42 per cent, and then you will be up to 180 million. kr., you have to pull out of the company, i.e. over three times as high as what is really equity. I don't think it takes a lot of logic to think that there are probably not many companies doing this generational change; that would be almost impossible. There are no companies that can do that. Or they may be able to do so, but then it is true, as many of the authors have said, that there is at least not much money left to make green conversion, if that is what you want, or to invest in new machinery, so that you can have higher productivity and thus invest in Danish jobs. That's why, among other things. 3F and Dansk Metal in their hearing responses have been against this. You can see that if you look at a tooth deeper than just to the discussion about the higher rate, you end up with this costing Danish jobs. That's why even the trade union movement can see that this bill is not a good solution. It is simply a deeply harmful bill, so we in the Danish People's Party cannot support it. Then you try to say that after all it goes to some good things. It's going to be okay, among other things. to make it free for foreigners to receive Danish education, support for KVINFO or support for LGBT Denmark - National Association for Gays, lesbians, bisexuals and transsexuals. And that may be very sensible, but I would just like to say that it is perhaps a fairly poor investment to tax our companies with a triple of the generational tax. This means that there will be fewer jobs and, in the long term, perhaps fewer tax revenues. At least we in the Danish People's Party cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165001	We thank the rapporteur, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. No one has signed up to speak in the queue, so we are giving the floor to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165021	Thank you. In the paper of understanding, after the elections, we agreed with the government to roll back the relief of the estate and inheritance tax for company heirs. In concrete terms, this means that the estate and inheritance tax is rolled back to 15%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. For the Radical Left, it is not at all a discussion to raise the tax so that it escapes with the other estate and inheritance taxes. It is quite natural for us to pay a harmonised inheritance tax of value, whatever form it takes. But then the question is 15 per cent. Of what? How do we assess the commercial value of a company and how do we create security in the valuation of the company so that they know what it is for a bill to be paid when they start the generational shift? For the Radical Left this is at the heart of the discussion here, as has also been described very, very well by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The feedback from companies, which have been many, is generally about the fact that it is not so much the percentage that is the problem, but rather the uncertainty in the valuation itself. For it must be reasonable that when a company wants to change its generation, the family can sit down with an accountant, make a plan and, above all, think the generation into the company's budgets. Uncertainty is like buying a house, signing the final note and then getting the price of the house only afterwards. There is broad agreement, both politically, professionally and in companies, that the stock and goodwill circus teachers provide the best basis for valuation. It's settled. However, every year, a few large companies are changed by using valuation methods other than the circulars, and these companies find it very difficult to plan the change as they cannot predict which method the tax authorities will use in the valuation. It should not be a secret that we in the Radical Left would like to provide the Danish family-owned companies with a legal requirement, i.e. a guarantee that the valuation is always based on the circulars, so that the planning of a generational change can take place quietly. But we have been told that such a legal requirement would result in less revenue of 500 million. We will not be able to deliver on the agreement we have with the government and the other support parties that this bill will create an additional revenue of 1 billion. kr. to finance the 2020 Finance Act and beyond. But what can we do instead of increasing the security of family-owned businesses during the generational shift? This is partly reflected in the proposal here and partly in the amendments that are on the way. Firstly, a group of experts will be set up in the coming year to develop a robust valuation system based on a schematic valuation so that it will be possible, on the basis of objective criteria, to pre-calculate the basis for taxation at a generational change rather than on the basis of current rules based on estimates. Secondly, all companies have a legal right to be able to settle the bill gradually with a return corresponding to the market rate over a period of 30 years if it is difficult to find the money on equity. It is then proposed that the period of validity of a binding response from the tax administration to the company should be extended from 6 months to 12 months. This gives a longer planning horizon, which has also been a wish of companies. In addition, the tax authorities' guidance is improved with a focus on supporting calculability, transparency and thus security in planning a generational change. We in the Radical Left are pleased with these changes and therefore endorse the draft law. There is, however, one thing that we have already asked about and on which we may be interested to table another amendment, namely the fact that, with a roll-back, the old rules on the inheritance of siblings will be reinstated. By a generational change to siblings, nephews and nieces, this will mean paying the average residence tax of 15%. plus the surcharge of 25 per cent. Effectively it is a rate of 36.25 per cent. We believe that this is both discriminatory and socially inappropriate. So if this part of the proposal does not entail significantly less revenue, we would very much like to exempt siblings from this roll-back, so that they only pay 15%. in the case of tax on the acquisition of the family-owned undertaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165429	So far there are seven who have signed up for short remarks to Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. And the first to give the floor is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165438	I must admit that I had hoped that the Radical Left would, after all, have been a slightly stronger bulwark for the family-owned companies. I know that the Radical Left would like the tax to increase, but I had the hope that something could be done about the valuation, because it was when the Radical Left was in the government last time that the wealth tax rate was abolished. So can the radical rapporteur here elaborate on how it can be that the property tax rate has not been reinstated?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165508	We have not been reinstated for the simple reason that we have taken the dialogue with both companies, but also with the other aid parties, and actually asked quite frankly what kind of value basis is desired. The Ministry of Taxation has also had a practice for many years of actually using the share and goodwill circus teachers, and in this way we find it most appropriate that this is the way we value it, since this is the way that is used most frequently, and this is how companies have actually themselves expressed a desire to do so in the case of interest groups, but also specific companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165546	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165548	So the rapporteur simply believes that companies are not interested in the return of the property tax rate? Do you want me to understand it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165556	Some companies have been. It really depends on what kind of character your company has. But we have simply considered that the goodwill circus teachers are the majority in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165607	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165610	I tried to get out of the Socialist rapporteur on the position of the Social Democrat before the elections, namely that the general inheritance tax should rise to 30%. We did not manage to find out at all. I would now like to ask the Radical Left: does the Radical Left want the ordinary inheritance tax to be paid at 15%?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165638	It should not be a secret that we in the Radical Left have an open mind when it comes to the estate and inheritance tax, and I think the rapporteur knows that too. That has also been the subject of the debate. In this autumn, we've spent many hours with the tax minister talking about this proposal. And one of the things that has been going on was whether we could find this billion on other forms of estate and inheritance tax, so that we could exempt companies to a greater extent, but we have not seen the possibility of really finding a majority for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165707	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165709	Did that answer mean that the Radical Left does not want to raise the general inheritance tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165717	Not in this round, anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165721	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165723	It wasn't a promise, it was a threat, so not in this round... Okay, we'll see what next year's Finance Act can offer. There I think someone should be worried about that message. As the Radical Left did not stand firm but accepted that the family-owned companies had to pay, the Radicals have assumed that this valuation was very important. That is also what the rapporteur says. But I am just thinking of what the Minister of Finance said when he was interviewed on top of the Financial Law Agreement, about the question of what should happen: the purpose of the expert group is to make clearer rules. But also to ensure that it contains the proceeds of one billion kroner provided for in the agreement. So the Radicals agree that the value must be what it is, but the revenue of 1 billion. kr. is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165821	The rapporteur is absolutely right about this. It has been a leeway in the discussion of this: how do we arrive at a solution where we both provide security but also secure revenue? So that is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165831	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165832	In other words, the hope that some people had for the Radicals' announcement prior to the financial agreement that we were worried about the consequences of this bill, there was no reason to have any hope, because the Radicals accepted not only that the generational change tax should be tripled, but also that if there was to be a clearer valuation, it was crucial that the proceeds would be worth 1 billion. kr. To that I have to say, as I said earlier, that there are a great many companies that first saw the valuation being increased, and then that we reduced the rate, and now you are faced with the high valuation and the high rate. I do not think the promises of the Radicals have helped much there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165919	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165921	Every time I have expressed the wish that we work and work for a legal requirement for companies, I have also said in the same breath that we still have this leg buckle, or what do I have to say, this is the basis of the discussion that is about this money going into the house, and that is why it is part of the starting point. But we have fought for the rule of law. There should be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165944	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211165949	Thank you. I think there are a great many Danes who had hoped that the Radical Left at least had a partial understanding of the importance of the survival of private companies in Denmark and its importance for the Danish economy and for jobs and, of course, also for tax revenue. To what extent does the rapporteur feel that the Radical Left has failed those hopes in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170014	I do not feel that we have failed our hopes. I understand that when you have wanted a legal claim and we cannot deliver on the request for a legal claim, you feel overlooked. But I actually think that with the elements that we have put into this bill, we have come to the companies as far as we can get at all. That was one thing. The second point is that in addition, Radical Left Conservatives share the concerns of companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170046	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170048	I am glad to hear that we share the concern, but we have the bill as it is, and everyone who has been following the media has seen that there was such a hope that the Radical Left could soften this either by setting values or otherwise, but that has not happened. So now I am just curious: what has been the feedback from the backland of the Radical Left when you see the Radical Left agreeing to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170112	Well, this is one of the things we have had a good time discussing, there is no doubt about that, because there are also plenty of small and medium-sized enterprises and certainly also very large companies in our hinterland, and we have taken that debate with them too. But there is actually quite a lot of understanding in our hinterland that this is as far as we could come with the available means.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170132	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170135	When a lot of small and large companies now get a huge million dollars extra, if they carry out a generational change, they can of course thank the Radical Left. I think it has to be said that the Radical Left has failed here. You blew yourself up and said that you wanted to make tough demands, just as you also made tough demands when you said that you wouldn't make a financial law that hurt the job offer. And then you lost that arming with the Social Democrats. I have no doubt, in fact, that Mrs Kathrine On Saturday did not want this tax, but Radicals lost, and it was the left that got its way. I do not understand why Radicals let the left win this fight, because Radicals have the decisive votes here. Well, the whole bourgeois camp here, including the Danish People's Party, is against this. So it is only because Radicals are in favour of it that a lot of small businesses are now getting an extra bill. It must be painful if you are a party that claims to be interested in competitiveness and small businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170239	I think we might have to agree to disagree on this issue, because I actually feel that the elements we have got into this bill are a victory over the legholds that have been laid out from the start, so that we have agreed that there should be 1 billion. kr. In this area. Unfortunately, this is one of the legislative packages that tend to fly across the hall, depending on who is at the helm, whether it is a blue or a red block, and someday it could be fantastic if we could find a version of this law that we could agree on across the hall. But I don't think it's gonna be in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170309	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170311	I would say that if this is a victory for business, I believe that business will have refused more victories. That you have to pay 1 billion. kr. extra, is not a victory, it is not. It is a huge burden for Danish business. I think Radicals should consider, and I would really like to hear whether we will continue this course of action, which will damage competitiveness, harm the Danish economy, reduce the supply of labour and a course that is totally different from the course traditionally taken by Radicals. Is that what we can expect over the next four years? For then there is no one between Radicals and the left who protects Danish business, and that is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170353	We're not gonna do that. First of all, I find it difficult to recognize the course that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is setting up, it is certainly not something that we have any intention of setting up in any way. The second part on the supply of labour: as the Finance Act lays down, the loss on the labour supply is for the Radical Left to see below the de minimis threshold. We do not believe that we have hit a critical point there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170424	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170426	Thank you. It is not a secret that it has been difficult for the Danish People's Party to sit and cheer on the Radical Left in the context of a financial bill debate, but we have certainly done so. Some might say that we have shown some kind of naivety, and now that we have the results, I am inclined to agree with that. Because that's absurd. We have mentioned birds on the roof in the past, and the rapporteur is also a little concerned about this and mentions the bird himself, and this is the group of experts, which in the Radical Left is thought to have been given as a kind of carrot, in relation to the fact that you can then go in and look more at the valuation, instead of looking at estimates alone. But it's a bird on the roof. It is simply something that will just flourish in time and costs, but it will not bring any improvements for companies. On the other hand, it was the wealth tax rate that we have also discussed in the past, which the Radical Left should have looked at, but that was not what they chose to do. So what did the Radicals actually gain from joining in this and reaping this very expensive experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170536	First of all, we have got a working group out of what I actually think has been given a very, very specific task, even though on the other side of the House we continue to call it a bird on the roof. So for us, it's a bird in our hand. But we would certainly have liked to see what the working group will achieve in the next year, the country already in the negotiations. But that is where we choose to put it to professionals, because it is a complex area, and we would like to have it framed as precisely and objectively as possible what criteria they are. And as I said earlier, for us this is not about the rate, i.e. the 15%. This is for us about the security of the generational shift, whether you can plan for it or not. It has gone from 6 months to 12 months, so there we have had an extension of that period; we have got a working group; we have got a grace period and a legal claim on the grace period of 30 years. It is still a long time to be able to pay for a generational change, and we think that one might be able to cope with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170640	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170641	It is then again one of the gifts that most business owners and families would like to have their hands cut off. In all their audit protocols, 30 years are required to show that they have set aside money for an increasing amount year by year which is available in conjunction with other entrepreneurial initiatives and entrepreneurial initiatives within the company. It is certainly not a good thing that the Radicals have got into this agreement. I would like to ask a clear question, which I did not get an answer to from the Socialists, but which the Radicals may be able to answer: does the Radical Left not fear that many of these bankruptcies will come in view of this threefold increase in the tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170725	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170726	To be perfectly honest, there are many things that can be feared in the wake of this proposal and that have been worrying us from the outset. Controlled bankruptcies are one of them; sales to capital funds are another; losses of Danish jobs on Danish land are a third. There are elements of this legislation that I think it would be extremely interesting to follow up on whether it really is happening, or whether it is empty threats from an industry that may still want to change the generation under the conditions we are now setting up. Let us now see how wrong things are, but I fully share the rapporteur's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170803	Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170806	I just wanted to ask the radical rapporteur whether she was not at all concerned about the consequences for family-owned businesses and jobs. Now I understand from the rapporteur that she would very much like to follow up on what the consequences are. What's it gonna take? How is this to be followed up? What has the Radical Left agreed with the Minister to follow the consequences of this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170831	So far we haven't put anyone, what to say, formal evaluation into this bill. However, there is no doubt that we already have companies and organisations of interest that bite us in the hassles and report out how they see that this might happen in the future. So for me, it's all about keeping an eye on whether this is a good law or not, whether it works or not, and what happens. And then we'll have to pick it up again. Because I have a feeling that we're going to take it back up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170907	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170908	Oh, but we need to get a clearer answer. In other words, how many fewer family-owned companies will it take for the Radical Left to think that this is a problem? How will the Radical Left follow this? In other words, will the Minister be asked to look closely at, within certain time intervals, how the employees of the family-owned companies are doing, how the ownership is doing, how many are being sold to capital funds and the like? So, what exactly will the Radical Left do in relation to following developments in this area? And how much does it take to actually make one's concern so great that one thinks that changes need to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211170948	These are some of the elements I have actually thought about. But I have simply come no further than to think about it, I must confess to the rapporteur. So that's certainly ways to do it, but anymore I'm not reached for the present.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171004	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171008	Thank you. I am somewhat worried when I hear the rapporteur talking about these 23,000 companies that will have to change over the next few years. This concerns 300,000 employees for whom access to financial security is placed in their homes, etc. on trial, and where you'd rather say, well, then we'll do an investigation afterwards to see how bad things have gone. Well, now you're there, and I hope you change your mind about that. What I would like to hear a little bit about is this: now that we have this valuation, how does the rapporteur view the valuation of active and passive companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171054	I simply have to face an answer to that. I haven't dealt with that in this round. I'm simply not sharp enough to answer that. I am a new rapporteur in this area, so I have not been aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171111	I have to admit that the Radicals say that they are not sharp enough in this area, however, it is also a cause for concern. How, then, do you view the companies that are now what will happen to them once you implement this crazy proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171134	I understand the rapporteur's question about those who are in the process of changing. Those who are in the process of switching have, of course, begun at a time when there is another legislation, and they can then do so on the basis of that legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171151	There is no possibility of a third round, but I will give the floor to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171157	Thank you to the rapporteur and the President. Allow me to read from a website, www.radiske.dk, and it says: "The Radical Left wants more people to work. Our ambition is that there will always be at least 3 million. in employment.....A little further down it says: "And here our tax system plays a crucial role. For me... and that is Morten Østergaard, I just have to say that taxes are not an ideology issue. Honey is a tool. And honey, who works, can get more people to work. And then you write: "We want to lower the tax on work so that we can create more wealth and more jobs. I'm a little confused now. Because now you want to raise the tax to triple it. At the same time, there are a number of trade unions and a number of professional organisations who say that this will cost jobs. I am confused and I could imagine that some radical voters were also confused. What does the rapporteur have to say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171302	Now inheritance tax and tax at work are two very, very different things. Tax on inheritance and the impact it has on jobs are, of course, something that we have been worried about throughout this process. Nevertheless, as I have also said, we believe that it is natural to set the percentage of 15, because when we have a harmonised inheritance tax in all other areas it simply makes the most sense. That is common sense for us to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171338	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171339	But since it is very, very important for the Radicals that a great many Danes are in work • 3 million • do not make an impression when there are a number of trade unions and a number of business organisations that say that this particular proposal is going to cost jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171400	Yes, and I must also admit that when those reports came in, we were confirmed in some of the concerns we had that it was not just about the contributions of the parties from the business community, but that the workers' side also had the same concerns. So for us, it just helps to underline the seriousness of this, which we are aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171422	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171427	Although Mrs Kathrine Oldag now thinks that what has come out of the financial law negotiations is better than what the government originally proposed, I assume that the Radicals would not have implemented that amendment if it were for the Radicals alone. In other words, if you had 90 seats, or if you formed a majority with the blue parties that do not want it here, you would not have played it on the table yourself, and you would not have done it yourself. So the question from me to the radical rapporteur is: what has the Radical Left actually got for the Radical Left, which justifies the fact that we are now voting in favour of this? What has been achieved in the financial law negotiations that compensates for the fact that we now have to vote in favour of something that is against radical policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171524	I only have 30 seconds to list everything we've been getting. After all, there is nothing in the Finance Act that we have no ownership of 100%. A great deal of it was also included in our own proposal, so for us there is full value for money. I think that must be the summation I can make in these seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171544	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171546	Perhaps it would be nice for the family-owned companies that are now about to pay this tax to know what the money is going to do and which make the Radicals say: Now it is worth it, because instead we have got money for the new family benefit or whatever it may be you think you have spent the money on. Then we cannot get this message here: what is it in the Financial Act that makes the Radicals think it is okay to vote for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171616	Well, that's one of them. the savings on training introduced by the previous government which have ridden the training courses as a market it is the training ceiling. That is the promise of standards in the day institutions. It is the help for the primary school, which has also been starved. This is the promise of welfare in the municipalities. There we are in complete agreement with the Social Democrats, the government, that there was a need for artificial breathing after many years of drought. So we actually think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171650	Sir. Lars Christian Lilleholt from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171653	I was able to understand from the rapporteur from the Radical Left in relation to the answer given to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen before that one will follow up on the consequences of this bill. I think the answer that was given was somewhat loose in the joints. I need to know very, very specific: what is this follow-up? When does the Radical Left expect it to come? How serious must the consequences be in terms of job losses and the closure of businesses before the Radical Left will follow up on this? When will that happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171729	We are simply going to talk further in the work of the committee about how this is to be done in concrete terms. I know that the government would also like to follow up on this, so there is an ongoing follow-up of these things in the Treasury and also by the tax minister himself. We cannot get any closer here today, but we would really like to follow it up later.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171749	Sir. Christian Lilleholt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171751	Is this something we can expect before the third reading of this bill, i.e. a follow-up? And is there an agreement that we can gain insight into with the government about follow-up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171805	There is no agreement at the moment. I don't know if we're gonna get a formal agreement either. We're gonna have to take a look at that. Nevertheless, this is a serious matter, which we, as politicians, clearly need to be aware of. So that's how we're gonna be stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171825	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171827	If you look at the history of this area from 2015 until now, I would like the rapporteur to confirm that we can conclude that this bill has both been given a higher rating and also has a higher rate, which of course makes family-owned companies incredibly poor. The rapporteur himself said that it gave an unpredictability and uncertainty about how to value. I could understand that one was glad that after all a group of experts was brought in. It was then the payment for voting in favour of something that gives a tax of 1 billion. kr. But why is it that the valuation was not managed before this bill was tabled? If so, why has it not been postponed for one year, for example, so you had some time to do so? 'Cause now you're in bad shape. Why hasn't the valuation been sorted out first before the threefold increase in the tax rate was made? I mean, it seems a little illogical and a little sloppy that you just trump through this because you need the money and then you don't have the part that I could understand is important to the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171924	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211171925	De facto, there will probably also be a one-year shift before the generation shift takes place in practice. In other words, if I were a company, I would now wait for the decision of the working group. With regard to the legal requirement which we have tried to introduce, the rapporteur also described in his own speech what the problem is about it. And there we have just got the message back from the tax authorities that with a legal requirement there is a huge amount of less revenue because the tax authorities' discretion in the valuation smokes. And that is why we have had to look at how we can then increase safety in other ways than by a legal requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172005	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172008	I understand it's important to have a legal requirement. But why not just reinstate the old wealth tax circular, which was, after all, a schematic approach? One could almost look up and see: what is the value of what I should be taxed on? It gave us some predictability. Then the rate was 15 percent, as will be with this bill. Then you could have started by reintroducing it and then getting a job started and seeing if you could make it better or more predictable or simpler or could hit it more evenly over the companies because it was true that it was a problem with the old circular. But now they have neither. Should one not logically have waited until one had the feeling about how to make the assessments, in place, and made a valuation of it before raising the rates? Now they have both the high ratings and the high tax rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172050	When we switch our valuation base here to the circulars, it is also about the fact that these are new times, and that the company's character, what to say, also changes. That is why we listen to it when both the companies, the interest organisations and the tax authorities, who are de facto having to figure out these things, all say with one mouth that the circulars are the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172114	The next question is Mrs Mona Juul from the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172120	Thank you. There is no doubt that we have a lot of disagreement about the generational shift tax, and there are a lot of companies out there thinking: what do we really have to do here? Has the rapporteur calculated what if there are a great many companies that for the next four years for the time being choose not that the generational change will actually mean and have consequences for what you have presented now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172140	We in the Radical Left did not count on that. I do not know whether the Ministry of Taxation has, but the rapporteur must ask them that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172150	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172151	I do not know whether we can afford to do so, but I still ask: what would the rapporteur think would be the best advice for Danish companies over the next four years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172200-2	As I said just now, I would wait if I had a baker or whatever it may be I would like to pass on to my children. After all, the working group comes up with a number of objective criteria that hopefully come as close to the security of valuation as we can at all without a legal requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172216	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172219	Thank you. I will simply follow up on what my two good colleagues, Lars Christian Lilleholt and Eva Kjer Hansen, asked questions about just now. Because I just can't figure out what is really under control when it comes to whether or not you're doing some kind of follow-up on this bill later or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172242	As I also said to the other two rapporteurs, we have no formal agreement at the moment to follow up; there is no written agreement on this. There have been oral exchanges about it, but I cannot get any closer to anything exactly right now. But I would really like to follow up on that, because it is a matter that we are looking at very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172305	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172306	But I really think it is really important that it should also be included in this bill if it is the case that the Radical Left rapporteur thinks it is important that it is followed up. So could the rapporteur say a little about whether it is a fight that the rapporteur will fight, so that it will also be in the legislative proposal itself that there will be follow-up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172327	I'm not sure it belongs in the bill itself. So, you can do many things, including in the description or in the notes to it, and something can also be done in the announcement and in the instructions. But let's just figure out where to put it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172345	So the questions to the radical rapporteur have been answered, at least here at first reading. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172403	Thank you. Policy is about priorities, and a new political majority should therefore also mean new priorities. In the Socialist People's Party we prioritise welfare, and we prioritise our education, our children, our health and psychiatry just to mention some examples. Our common institutions, which we entrust to our children and young people and the sick and the elderly, have been under pressure for far too long. To give priority to tax reductions to one particular and often resourceful part of the population, when our common institutions scramble, we leave others behind. The proposed bill is a roll-back of the former government's easing of the residence and gift tax on the transfer of business activities. At that time, the tax was reduced from 15%. 5%, and now we put it back up again. That's good socialist politics. The draft law also responds to the criticism of the deferral system, which is now being improved in such a way as to introduce a legal requirement for deferred payment of the residence and gift tax for up to 30 years. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The first question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172520	Thank you very much. After all, there was little about the draft law in the rapporteur's speech. It was more about everything else in the Finance Act. This is actually about a triple of the generational tax, a tax increase of 1 billion. kr. and an immediate impact of 1.3 billion. kr. There are 850,000 Danes employed in these family-owned companies. Do the rapporteurs think that we should just shut down these companies and that these jobs should disappear from Denmark, 850,000 Danes; that it doesn't matter about their jobs? Is that how the rapporteur feels? Is it purely socialist policy, as the rapporteur says?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172553	No, and there won't be 850,000 jobs disappearing out of Denmark because of this bill either. In fact, the Economic Council has said that reintroducing a uniform tax on housing and gifts will not lead to reduced growth or employment, so of course that is not the case. The reason I'm talking about other things than the fact that you raise the tax here is that if we're not just raising the tax for fun. We raise taxes because we think it is important to prioritise welfare. That is why we are doing it, and that is why I think it is actually relevant to mention it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172625	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172626	How many jobs does the rapporteur expect to get out of Denmark as a result of raising the tax by 1 billion? kr. on the family-owned companies a year? How many companies do the rapporteur think are being sold to capital funds that move the company out of the country? And what is the acceptable level of the number of jobs lost in Denmark as a result of this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172645	I can't tell you exactly how many jobs there will be, if it's any. However, as I have just said, the Economic Council has said that this proposal will not lead to reduced growth or employment. So I would say that I am not really particularly concerned. On the other hand, I am very pleased that we are now making investments under the Finance Act which will have some really positive effects on the corporate environment. For example: We strengthen the education area, which is really, really important for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172713	The next questions to the rapporteur come from Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172717	We'll set up the treasure. That is good socialist policy. I think we can agree on that, but then the agreement stops too. For the rapporteur, and it has been repeated many times by those who support this proposal, says that this is just a roll-back of tax relief. It's not. For what has been changed is that the rate of the percentage of a company's value has been reduced. At the same time, the way to assess the value of companies is set up When you retain the high ratings and roll back the rate, then you land in a higher place than you did before. I therefore think that those who support this proposal need to be honest about what they are doing: it is a tax increase compared to before changes were made to inheritance taxation. It is not a roll-back of a tax relief. It is also true that when the rate was reduced, some other companies paid more tax to finance it. After all, it was not money that went to what you call welfare, which in New Danish means larger public budgets. So be honest about what you do: you raise the tax to a higher level than it was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172832-2	After all, we are rolling back the rate, but that is true in relation to the valuation. I fully acknowledge that, and I am, as such, glad that we now have a committee of experts to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172843	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172845	[Sound emission]... not exactly what the committee of experts should look at. But please explain to us why it is good socialist policy that small businesses and these are also some of those who are family-owned... have to pay millions extra in inheritance tax. Why is it good socialist policy that the small baker and the small grocery store in the country should have a million dollars bill? Is that a good socialist policy? It is by no means a question of some of society's most prosperous; some of them, the small self-employed, are among the very poorest in society. Why do they have to pay so much more? Why is this good socialist policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172920-2	That is a good socialist policy, because I think that 15%. in fact, a very fair level. We have had a higher level in the past than we have now. Now we get it up to 15%, and that is some money that we can spend on strengthening our welfare. There were a lot of good initiatives in the Finance Act that I mentioned before, and that is socialist policy for me. I think it is important that the widest shoulders carry the heaviest load, and I think it is crucial that we get invested in our welfare. We do that with this financial law, which is why I think it is good policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172951	The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211172956	Thank you, Madam President. Well then, I would like to say to the rapporteur that despite the extremely modest and extremely brief rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur actually managed to say something that we in the Danish People's Party agreed with. It was, of course, a priority for children, a priority for health and, above all, for psychiatry. But that is also where the agreement ends, because it has to be financed. And the way we want to finance it is, among other things, through growth in Denmark, through development and employment, through exports of goods, etc. It doesn't really happen with what the SF is up to. On the contrary, we can see that in this way it is a frontal attack on many of the companies where thousands of Danes have their annual income, and it is people who are employed in these family-owned companies around all parts of Denmark. Does the Socialist People's Party really not have any kind of scruples in terms of holding hands and defending employees employed in these companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173104	We have no qualms about implementing this proposal. We're actually proud of it. We think this is a very good policy, and we think it is quite easy for business to pay a 15% tax. in this context. We do not think it is as excruciatingly high as it sounds when you hear the many questions from the right today. So we think it is a sensible policy, and we can be completely at the end of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173130	Well, then, it is certainly good that the rapporteur is not on the handball team, I would say, if you want to be on target in that way. 'Cause there aren't many targets you're saving, I'd say. In the end, then, it is the employees who will pay the price with fewer jobs, less in-service training in companies, lower productivity, companies that do not take in so many apprentices. Lack of apprenticeship and internship places is something we have had problems with in Denmark for many years, and now the curve is turning. This is due, among other things, to: good conditions for growth and, above all, a boom. But apparently SF doesn't care. I think that is really worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173214	No, SF does not blow on business environments, because there are plenty of other things that affect business environments than just the tax rate. It is clear that if you only look at it in isolation, it is not great for business to get higher taxes; that is clear. It is, of course, coolest for business to have to pay nothing at all, if they did not have to pay anything, we would not have the money to improve the business environment in some other areas. And now, for example, we are strengthening. our education, and I think that makes sense. It also has a meaning. Policy is about priorities, and I think that we have a right priority here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173248	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173251	Sir. Carl Valentin says that this increase in the tax on housing and gifts is a good socialist policy. And I will just try to read out Wikipedia's text on socialism: Socialism refers to a wide range of political movements that want a socio-economic system in which the means of production (e.g. factories, financial institutions, infrastructure, etc.) are subject to political control. This control of the means of production may have different terms. For example, there may be state ownership, cooperatives or the workers' direct ownership of their own workplace. Is that the aim of the increase in the housing and gift tax, that is to say, that family-owned companies should eventually cease to be family-owned and rather than be directly owned by the workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173340-2	No, that's not what this is all about. But socialism is also about something other than ownership. Socialism, for example, is acting. It is about a fair distribution; it is about economic equality, it is about strengthening our well-being. So I think this is socialist politics. It may be that my definition of socialism is then slightly broader than Wikipedia's, but nevertheless I think it is clearly within the scope of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173404	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173405	General redistribution in a society is social liberalism, conservatism and social democracy. But if you say that a policy is socialist, it is because you think that the means of production should be transferred to common ownership. When Mr. Carl Valentin directly says that the objective of this is socialism and that it is socialist politics, I ask: is it then because Mr. Carl Valentin and SF as a Socialist People's Party deep down dream that the family-owned companies will end up being joint owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173444	No, that's not it. That is because my definition of socialism is probably slightly broader than that put forward by the rapporteur here. I mention this because this proposal, among other things. ensure increased redistribution. But it is clear that it is then part of SF's policy to ensure more employees-owned companies and such things. This can well be found in our programme of principles, and I think that we can have a good debate on another day. But that's not the case with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173507	The next question is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173511	Thank you very much. Again, I am somewhat concerned when the rapporteur mentions that the widest shoulders should carry the heaviest loads. Does the rapporteur understand how to start a typical family-owned business and how little these people really often earn from running this business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173533	I actually think I'm quite aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173537	I appreciate that on behalf of the nation. Now that the rapporteur has this important rapporteurship, the rapporteur cannot explain to me how 15%. is not excruciatingly much money to have to pay in a generation change? I would also like to know whether the rapporteur understands how a change of generation is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173558	It is not excruciatingly a lot of money, because it has been held at 15% in the past. and has been able to see that it could work easily. Moreover, I also think it is appropriate to mention, following on from your question, that the Economic Council has said that it could actually reduce the productivity of the scheme as it was in the past, because there could be a tendency that it was not the most skilled who inherited the company and drove it on, but those who just happened to be born into a family. So it may actually be that this proposal strengthens productivity. I think that is also relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173634	The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173637	Does the rapporteur share the view of the Social Democrats and the government that 3 billion can be saved? kr. on consulting services?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173645	I don't see how it's relevant to this at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173651	That is relevant, because it is about priorities. The rapporteur himself said so. That's why I'm bringing it up. When you say that you share the view of the Social Democratic Party that 3 billion can be saved. kr. I would like to make a few comments on that, but only 800 million will be saved. kr., which you have chosen, because you have made a Finance Act where you save only 800 million. kr., there's a lot of surplus, that's 2,3 billion. kr. You could take them by saving more on the use of external consultants, and then you didn't have to take the money from family-owned companies. That is why it is all about politics and it is about priorities. That is why I ask: if SF shares the government's position, why should external consultancy companies be given priority over family-owned companies? That's what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173734	I think it is a little important that we do not make the handling of cases in the Folketing so that you can ask questions on any political matter it might now be. But in relation to the matter of consultants, we are quite ready to look at reducing the number of consultants and saving some money there. We would very much like to work towards that, both with the government and also with the new citizens, if it were to be. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173800	The next question is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173804	Thank you. I think the rapporteur has explained what socialist policy is. But I also imagine that the rapporteur is concerned about the green transition. That is precisely the area I think is really, really important in relation to this debate, because what is important for the company is to be able to afford the green transition and to ensure that there are actually funds for innovation, technological development and the whole digitisation that we see ahead of us. So what does the rapporteur think is most important: the green transition or the socialist policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173836	It's a kind of special way of putting it up. Because I believe that socialism and green transition go hand in hand, and I also think it is very sensible that we have now made a historic green finance law, in which we have actually prioritised a great deal of money for this area. So I do not see in any way a contradiction between raising the tax on living and giving and ensuring a green policy on the contrary. In fact, I think that right now we are showing that it is possible to do both; we are ensuring both fairer taxation and pursuing a historically green policy. So I'm really proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173912	I have been asking a great many companies, and I am sure the rapporteur himself has. And what I see is that you are actually very concerned about whether you have the means for precisely the green transition. Are there any measures that the rapporteur thinks should be supplemented by? Because I could understand from the previous question that the tax must also help to give more money to businesses and create better framework conditions. What could it do, for example? Be?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211173937	I do not think I would like to make a single concrete move here. However, I would like to say that I think it is essential, when we look at our companies, that we try to set our policies in such a way that it is always worth making the sustainable choices. For companies, it often has to make priorities and make choices on the basis of profit considerations, and I understand that very well, and that is why I think we should try to set up our society in such a way that it is worthwhile for companies to become more green. We will also work for that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211174006	So I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. All questions have been answered. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211174018	Thank you. Unfortunately, our tax rapporteur is prevented and I will therefore read out the speech by the tax rapporteur. The Enhedslisten strongly supports raising the housing and gift tax at generational change. We saw the tax relief that the former bourgeois government carried out as a purely tax gift to some of Denmark's most richer people. 1 billion kr. It will cost if by 2020 we had fully phased in that relaxation from 15%. At 5%, a narrow majority of citizens had voted. It was one of the most incomprehensible tax concessions of all those who were made while Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen was prime minister. The Enhedslisten has been very much opposed to the tax relief. It is simply contrary to the general principles of a progressive tax model such as the Danish one that an heir of a summer house to DKK 900,000. must be off at 15%. of the value exceeding the base deduction, which in 2019 is DKK 295,300, while an heir to a company with a value of 7 billion. kr. get rid of 5 per cent. It has nothing reasonably to do with anything at all. The tax relief was implemented following a massive lobbying campaign from the Network Growth in Generations, which counts some of Denmark's richest company owners. After it came to light that the new majority would roll back the tax relief, the lobby campaign by the big companies has run for full curtains and this has led to a lot of debate. I don't want to hide the fact that I think the bourgeois people have a really bad case. Let us try to look at the substance: the tax relief does not have beneficial socio-economic effects. The economists of the Ministry of Taxation and the wise men do not usually tend to be stingy with their assumptions about positive dynamic effects when lowering taxes. However, both parties point out that there are no socio-economic arguments in favour of reducing the tax. That was given to the then tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, to admit that there was not an economic argument for relaxing the tax, but merely a moral argument. On the contrary, it is potentially bad for the economy. In one reply, the Ministry of Taxation wrote: "The asymmetrical taxation involves a loss of distortion and draws in isolation towards lower prosperity. ▪ The viewers have written as recently as in their autumn report from 2019: • The present relaxed tax burden on the inheritance of companies provides a fiscal incentive to leave inheritance in one way rather than others. This is inappropriate as it increases the negative distortions of overall taxation. In short, there are no broad socio-economic arguments for relaxing the inheritance tax. Then there is the question of the capital drain that it inflicts on companies. According to the bourgeois and family-owned companies, this was supposed to cause a lot of disasters, including the closure of businesses. Now it is the case that we have had inheritance tax for many years, and Enhedslisten has not yet seen the study that documents how the inheritance tax has historically killed companies in a row. Where is the smoking gun, where is the evidence that the inheritance tax actually causes all sorts of accidents? It is postulated, but it is by no means proven. Is it not true that in the past we have had an inheritance tax for large transfers, which was 19%? up to 1 million kr., and 32%. For everything over there? What did the much higher tax on generational shifts mean back in time? Let's get some numbers and facts on the table. In addition, it has appeared in the debate as if the heir to a company has no option at all but to pay immediately at cashier one, even if they cannot. But that's not true. Firstly, there is the possibility of making a tax success and thus the tax can be deferred until the company is abandoned. Secondly, there is the possibility of a 15-year grace period with the current rules and an extension of this draft law to 30 years and to which it is legally required. This means that the current legislation, and in particular the extension of L 76, already provides for the possibility of being able to pay over many years. We must not make tax policy that takes account of the absolute elite and the business nobility in Denmark, but we must, in Enhedslisten's optics, create a tax policy that is fair and that fights inequality. So, as I said, Enhedslisten can warmly support the proposal, which is also part of the 2020 financial law agreement. Then I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211174442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211174504	I do not think there has ever been as much money to spend on a financial law as the financial law agreement that has just been concluded. We are at the top of a boom, there is huge revenue for the Treasury, there is very low unemployment, and there is a really great room for manoeuvre that can be used loosely. You could achieve all the consumption you want in the public sector without raising taxes. Nevertheless, the political majority has chosen to raise taxes. It is not necessary, but one obviously sees it as an end in itself, that there should be higher taxes in Denmark. In this round, the family-owned companies that have to pay 1 billion are going to suffer very badly. kr. extra tax a year. This is a huge amount of money, and it hits some companies very much. I will use my speech here to go against some of the wrong assertions made by the Left and the Socialists about this tax. It goes without saying that the Conservative People's Party is opposed to punishing Danish business, against raising taxes when it is not necessary, so I do not think I need to argue very much for that. However, I would like to argue against some of the wrong claims that have been made. We have heard several rapporteurs, both from the Socialist People's Party, from the Enhedslisten and from the Social Democrats, say that tax cuts have been given to some of Denmark's most wealthy people, and that is what you want to roll back. There are two false assertions in the otherwise rather short sentence. One false claim is that it should be that tax relief has been granted only to some of Denmark's most wealthy people. Family-owned companies are available in all forms. They are true in large companies, but there are also a great many, and most of the family-owned companies are small, and it cannot be claimed that small merchants, small craft companies, small farms should belong to part of Denmark's richest people. That is simply wrong. It may be a good socialist policy to raise taxes, but it cannot be a good socialist policy that some people who do not already have very much money should suffer. It is simply an absurdity. The second thing that is wrong in the short sentence that I quoted earlier is that there should be just a roll-back of the tax. There isn't. It is true that the rate is set to a level that it has been at in the past, but when the changes to inheritance tax were made from 2015, two things happened. There it happened that the rate was reduced, but, at the same time, the ratings were set up. So today you pay a lower rate of a higher amount than before changes were made to inheritance tax. When you choose to look only at the movement in a selective way, you can call it a roll-back of the movement, but it is a little bit to do violence in the language when you overlook that you also keep the high ratings and that you thereby land at a higher level than you did before. These are large bills that affect some companies and it would not be unusual for a family-owned company to pay a million bills, even if the company's value is quite small and may only be able to support a person with the modest profits that may be in such a company. It is a hard blow and it is no excuse to say to those people that they are allowed to pay it over 30 years. Try to think that you came to one of us and said, "Here you go, here's a $2 million bill." kr., but it doesn't matter because you get to pay it over 30 years. If you have to pay a million bills, you have to pay a million bills, and then it doesn't matter whether you can pay it over 30 years, because it's still gone a bill that has to be paid. I think it is very arrogant that such an easy-to-place bill should be placed with some family-owned companies and that it should be said here from the platform that it does not represent a financial burden for small businesses. It does! It is a huge financial burden to get a bill of several million kroner, and it goes beyond the economy of those companies, of course, and it goes beyond their ability to create growth and jobs in Denmark. I think you should be honest about what you do. One has prioritised here, and one would like tax relief because one is in favour of higher taxes, and then one has chosen to beat down on family-owned companies, one does so in a dishonest way by telling that it has no consequences and by saying that it alone is about some of the most wealthy people in Denmark. It may sound good, but it's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175012	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I therefore welcome the next rapporteur, who comes from New Citizens. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175024	If there is one thing I have learned from my first six months in this Parliament, it is quite simple that a majority of the politicians in here have no sense in any way out of respect for self-employed workers. I simply think that they are seen as some kind of inexhaustible box that you can just take from. It is shameful, and it is morally reprehensible, and it is directly harmful to Denmark and the future of the Danes. Let me tell you a little secret. It's actually the self-employed who run and finance this circus. Let us now show them some respect, because it is obviously not enough for them to be constantly torn by rising taxes and taxes. No, even when they want to turn their business over to the next generation, they must also be punished. To that there is just to say that New Citizens say no and no. We simply do not want to be involved in this. Then I also have to look over at our bourgeois friends, and to them I just want to say that we share your concerns. We also think this is the wrong way to go, but we also ask the question: why did you not remove it, as you had power not only at generational change, but the inheritance tax at all? It's a terrible death tax, and it's harmful. I often hear that from the bourgeois parties themselves. Because if the inheritance tax had been abolished, the Socialist Government would have had to introduce a completely new tax, and it is far more difficult to introduce a new tax than just to adjust on existing ones. This one's about a billion. kr. We can add this to the other increased costs that have been put on the business world by the Danish Parliament. I just have to say that unfortunately the bourgeois parties have not been the guarantor there either, because they have voted in favour of more than one and a half billion. kr. at extra costs to the business community. But there is a long time left for the next elections, and in New Citizens we have a hope that we can jointly find the bourgeois tactics, even though we have just witnessed that the Left and Conservatives have actually overtaken the Socialist Government in tax increases. These are bad times for bourgeois Denmark; they are bad times for business when a parliament in this way imposes increased taxes on the business sector which finances Denmark. So let us meet in bourgeois reconciliation and together get rid of the inheritance tax, not only for companies, but also for citizens. And we will not stand alone: Norway, Sweden, Portugal, Slovakia, Austria, Canada, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Hungary, Estonia, Luxembourg, Serbia, Then I must not wish everyone in the Folketing, especially my fellow citizens, a very good Christmas holiday when we get this far, and let us now find when we come back after the New Year, the bourgeois virtues, so that we stand as a strong common bourgeois voice. No matter what, in any case, New Citizens will always stand for this, and that is why we cannot, of course, support a legislative proposal which increases the cost to business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175504	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175508	I just have two things. First, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, why we had not abolished the generational tax. The Conservative People's Party is in favour of this; we would have liked to have done so. Then why didn't you do it because you had the majority? That's where I can tell you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen has the majority now too. Well, he can go with us and the other civil parties, for example. Enhedslisten. Then you have a majority and then you can abolish the generational tax. If sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen now argues that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of abolishing the generational tax, so the majority cannot agree to do so, so I think he will also understand why the generational tax was not abolished by the bourgeois majority. The second point is that I would like to clarify what Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen meant by the last thing he said that we had surpassed the Social Democrats in taxes and duties. We abolished a large number of taxes when we were in government. We did some not huge, yet significant tax cuts. How does Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen that we have surpassed the Social Democrats? I just didn't understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175615	If we take the last one first, it was Conservative and Left who wanted to increase the cigarette fees to DKK 60. That is more than what the Socialist Government is doing. So, yes, the Social Democratic Government was surpassed. Let us say that the former government of the VLAK had gone to the Danish People's Party and said: You know what, we need to have some tightening on the immigration policy, and we know that when there is tightening on the immigration policy, it saves money. Over 33 billion. kr. It was used on misguided non-Western immigration. If you had gone to the Danish People's Party and said, you know what, we'd like to join in some of the tightenings, it gives revenue to the state, and shouldn't we use it to lower the inheritance tax for ordinary Danish citizens? I think the Danish People's Party had accepted. I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175704	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175705	Okay, so there was a single darling where sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen could point out that among other things: My party was in favour of it being higher than the Socialists believe. It was a little selective when, at the same time, we would be in favour of the extra revenue that comes from it going to reduce other taxes. So don't keep making a wrong picture of what other parties think. Don't put up any disagreements that aren't there. We are in favour of lower taxes, we are in favour of a lower tax burden, and we have repeatedly put forward proposals to reduce taxes. The strategy of forcing the Danish People's Party to do something has been tried, and I think that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will find out that in here in the Folketing the things that are majority in favour are adopted. And there has been no majority in favour of abolishing the tax at the time of generational change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175750	Now I was dealing with the legislative proposal that I have dealt with, and there was the Conservative and Left who wanted to raise taxes more than the Social Democratic Government. That's the way it is. In addition, Conservatives also voted with the Socialist Government to increase a large number of costs, for example. the banking system on hybrid capital, which was not a requirement of the European Union. The cost of exporting cars has been increased. It also cost just 100 million. kr. So Conservatives have voted for significantly increased spending on business. So you can just go back and see what you have voted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175824	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211175834	Thank you. We are now discussing the government's socialist bill to increase the taxation of generational change in family businesses. And then you could have a longer talk about different ideas of justice between people who are socialists and people who are not socialists. We would probably not get that far because we are just standing quite different places: Socialists think that the majority of society's production should be taken from those who produce and where the money should end up in the treasury. While we, who are not socialists, believe that the majority of society's production should remain with those who have produced so that they can do good with the money in the way they think is best. And there socialists and non-socialists face each other and probably never agree. What we should be able to agree on is whether it is doing something good for a socio-economic system, to absorb money from companies that could use that money to invest in new production, new machinery that makes production more productive, and in more jobs, and then instead spend it on more educators, because the municipalities are not thought to be able to decide for themselves how many educators it is best to have, to abolish the cash aid ceiling and the start-up aid, the integration benefit in the form of a new benefit, which you temporarily have, until you raise it permanently. And there I think it is difficult to pollute people with understanding, which means that society is getting richer because we take the money that could be invested in companies and spend it on the things that the Socialists in the Folketing would rather spend it on; that I think is difficult. One can imagine a company that is well run in business and is owned by a family. At the time when the older generation no longer wants to own the company but wants to retire, the company must be transferred to the son or daughter, and then it is simply decided that a huge amount of inheritance tax should be added on that occasion. And you should not just pay the estate and inheritance tax. Because in most cases the heirs who do not afford to pay the estate and inheritance tax themselves, they must also have money out of the company, both for the estate and inheritance tax, but also to pay the tax to be paid from the company to pay the estate and inheritance tax. So it is a fairly large amount, and that amount cannot then be available for the investment that the company would like to make in relation to a new form of production, investment in research, which could make the product one produces better, or in relation to it employing some more employees for a period of time to see if it could generate a profit that justifies the employment. There is and should be no doubt that the red majority in the Folketing spends the money in a way that is not as beneficial to the economy as it would have been if companies had been allowed to keep the money. And for that reason, the Liberal Alliance is voting against this socialist bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211180231	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance. There is no wish for short remarks, and so all the rapporteurs from the parties have been there. And now it is the tax minister who is asked to come to the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211180254	Thank you very much for that, President. And thank you very much for the debate here, which has not surprisingly shown that this proposal is a proposal on which there is, one can safely say, a blocky disagreement in the Folketing. And that is because the views have already been expressed before, not least during the election campaign, and indeed even at the time when the former Blue Government, and indeed the right wing, chose to give historic and also unequal tax concessions. However, as I have said, it is probably nobody's attention that Denmark has gained a new government and also a new political majority, which, most recently with this financial law, which has just been passed, at least in the form of an agreement, has clearly signalled that we want to put welfare first. We want to strengthen young people's education, we also want to strengthen help for mentally vulnerable and mentally ill people, and not least we want to restore confidence in our tax administration. At the same time, we want to strengthen the framework for an ambitious green transformation of Denmark, which offers Danish business opportunities for even more growth and prosperity, and which ensures that Denmark takes a stronger international responsibility for the joint fight against the violent climate change that we are facing right now. It was the mandate that the electorate in the parliamentary elections gave to the government and the parties, which, as I said, has just agreed next year's Finance Act; for 2020. And that is why there is only reason to be proud of the financial agreement that has now been settled. In fact, it sets a new direction for Denmark, which is more just and which, of course, also remains committed to its contribution to the solution of some of the major challenges facing the country and of which the international cooperation we are a part also faces. What we said before the elections, we are doing now. We have said very clearly that we will roll back the biased tax cuts of the previous government, which were given to very well-off groups in our society. It has not been so much discussed here today, but the bill for these tax cuts, which the previous government gave, was paid with great savings on welfare and, above all, on the education of young people. And that's what we're changing now. At a time when competition is constantly intensifying, there is a need for more and not less investment in education. It is absolutely essential for us to be able to create growth and more jobs both now and here and in the future in Denmark. By 2020 alone, it costs 700 million. kr. to stop the VLAK government's savings in education. That is why we are returning the billion-dollar tax relief of the previous government to some of the richest families in the country, and we are reintroducing a uniform residence and gift tax of 15%, so that the tax is brought back to its level before being lowered there in 2017. This means, for example, that we will have the opportunity to employ 1,000 more nurses, that we will be able to introduce minimum standards and that, as I said, we will be able to strengthen the efforts of people who are unfortunately suffering and who have to live with mental illness. In addition, we invest in training so that Danish companies and employees are better equipped for the fight for growth and jobs So it can be said that the financial agreement we have with which this is a key element, briefly and well, sets a new direction which is both fairer and more responsible for Denmark. As I said, we are re-establishing a uniform residence and gift tax of 15%, and this will mean that the tax will be the same for everyone, just as before the tax reduction in 2017. This will ensure that the decision as to whether an entity should be transferred to, for example: external buyers or must be generationally changed within the family, to a lesser extent affected by the tax itself. After all, it is economically healthy when the desire is an appropriate investment and business structure that supports growth and employment in a society as a whole. At the same time, the abolition of the favourable tax on the transfer of enterprises will move towards a fairer distribution of income. The fact that the previous government's reduction in the tax on housing and gifts by the transfer of an economic activity was the wrong way to go for the Danish economy is therefore also backed up by independent economists. In their report entitled "Productivity 2017" the Economic Council states that the reduced tax may have negative socio-economic effects, e.g.: by reducing productivity because companies are not encouraged to use the most efficient forms of management and ownership. OECD is also ready in their assessment from January 2019, where they write that the tax favoritism of generational change within the family hampers entrepreneurship and investment, quote end. One of their key recommendations for the Danish economy is therefore that the reduced tax should be rolled back, and that is the recommendation we follow up with this bill. At the same time, however, it is important that the tax increase does not pull the curtain away under the companies, and that is why we are now granting a legal right to defer, so that the tax can always be paid gradually over 30 years. This will ensure that liquidity is only less affected. Finally, there is a question of the valuation of the company, which has also filled some of the debate in this Chamber today. And I would like to stress that, of course, we in the government have a great understanding of the need for predictability in a generational change, so that companies have the best possible framework for planning a generational change. That is why, as has also been said today, we are setting up a committee of experts to make recommendations on precisely this issue, that is to say, on the valuation. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate that has taken place today and, of course, I look forward to our being able to deal with the proposal in the Committee on Taxation. I am at your disposal, and so is the Ministry, so that we can ensure a good debate about the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211180952	Thank you, Minister. There are, of course, a number of brief comments to the Minister, and the first comment comes from Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181001	It is of course no surprise that the Social Democratic Party and the Minister and the government want to raise the tax on Danish family-owned companies employing 850,000 Danes throughout the country. How does the Minister think that this can benefit Denmark and the 850,000 whose jobs are put at risk when you raise the tax as significantly as 1 billion. kr. kr. in immediate effect and 1 billion. kr. After retreating? What will the Minister say to the Danes who are losing their jobs as a result of this tax increase?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181034	Government business policy is about investing in the future. And that's why we spend this money to invest in education, so that Danish companies' struggle for growth and employment is strengthened, not only now and here, but also in the long term, by getting better trained labour. When I'm around visiting Danish companies, it's one of the things they point to: There's a need for more labour that's needed for more skilled labour. That's what we're making sure of now. It's fair enough, so it's been clear for a long time that we disagree on this. We would rather spend the money on youth education, and you would rather spend the money on major tax cuts, and especially very large tax cuts for some very large business owners. That's what's real in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181122	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181123	We're pretty much concerned that the Danes have a job. And 92 percent. of all Danish companies are family owned, so this is a general reduction in Denmark's competitiveness. When you combine this with the government's other financial law proposals, where you lower the main shareholder allowance and introduce a number of additional taxes on a number of different things, Denmark's competitiveness will deteriorate. And the Minister should know if anyone knows how it is important for Denmark's prosperity that we are actually competitive. So what will the Minister say to Danish companies who are here thinking: should we move out of the country? You want us to sell to a fund? Does the Minister think it better that it is capital funds that own the Danish companies than that they are family-owned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181201	It's kind of like you think the Earth's gonna end. It's just weird that what we've rolled back was what applied when you had the power of government yourself. Well, that's what we do. That is why it can be said that we were even opposed to finding a better way of using the money, in other words, to invest in the education of young people. And that is the crucial difference. We have said right from the start that we were opposed to this tax relief, because we would rather use it to ensure that young people could get better education and thus be ready to enter the labour market, which is marked by a hard struggle every day to ensure that growth and prosperity can be achieved. But this requires that education and training be improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181245	The next question is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181247	Thank you. It is sad to hear the Minister stand and be proud to create worse conditions for the family-owned companies which, in fact, account for 850,000 jobs. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether the Minister is going to give an undertaking today to the radical rapporteur that we will now closely monitor the state of the ownership, i.e. whether there will be fewer family-owned companies and how employment in family-owned companies is going. Because the Radical Left said they want to follow these closely. That is why I ask whether the Minister will give an undertaking and whether it will be incorporated into the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181328	I think it will be difficult to incorporate this directly into the draft law, and I think Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen knows that too. But I and the government will also follow the committee of experts that we are now setting up, which is, of course, about valuation, following this area. Following on from what the Economic Council says and what the OECD says, we do not believe that this will have a significant impact on employment. That's what's being said. That is why the OECD has actually recommended that what was done under the previous government be withdrawn. That's what we're doing now. We spend the money investing in the education of our young people and the training of those who go to higher education, and we invest in research. We think this is a much better future for Danish business as well. We are quite glad that they themselves think it is really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181419	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181420	After all, it is wonderful to hear the Minister say that there is no consequence in making a tax increase of 1 billion now. kr. What is the Minister going to do to accommodate the Radical Left and provide for a debriefing? Is it half-yearly reporting, in relation to what is happening with ownership and staff? Or how does the Minister intend to respond to the demands and wishes of the Radical Left in this area? I ask because we are simply interested in being able to follow the consequences of government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181452	After all, the Folketing is always welcome to ask about it, and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen knows that you can do so. But it is clear that, when you have made a financial agreement and you have made an understanding paper saying that you want to roll it back, so that follows close cooperation, for example on this. So, of course, a dialogue on this and a collaboration on this. We will, of course, follow this up and discuss it on a regular basis. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181520	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181521	Thank you. Following that, I would like to ask you something. In other words, what we are hearing is that an oral agreement has been reached between the government and, among other things, the government. Radical Left that you want to follow up on the legislation here that you adopt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181540	No, there isn't. We have made a committee of experts to look at the valuation and what it can lead to. That's what we've made an agreement on. This can be seen on the Danish Treasury website. It's done today. However, it is clear that, as part of the government's economic policy, the consequences of the choices being made are discussed and discussions are being held on how the Danish economy is developing under cover of the fact that a financial agreement has been drawn up. I really hope that is not unknown to people who for the last 14 out of 18 years have been in government here in Denmark. I hope not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181610	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181611	Thank you. So the Radicals themselves must follow up on this, because what the Radicals' rapporteur was saying on the platform was certainly different. The Minister said that it is the particularly wealthy groups in our society that are now about to pay more. Following on from this, I would like to ask the Minister whether he cannot confirm that the vast majority of these family-owned companies are small or relatively small enterprises, and that they are also going to be hit very hard and that it can also have the consequence that there will be fewer jobs in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181650	As I said, we do not share that concern. We are leaning on what both the OECD and the Economic Council have said. After all, the Economic Council also recommends that a deferral be made, for which we then have a legal right and extend to 30 years. This means that there is at least a liquidity guarantee that this increased tax can be repaid. However, it is clear that when the previous government reduced the percentage as it did, there is a marked difference between whether it is the small enterprise, or it is the very, very large enterprise that is inherited. That's why this is wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181731	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181733	The Minister says that the competitiveness of companies is not affected and that employment is not affected. I would like that to be clarified not by the Minister referring to some others who also think so, but by the Minister explaining to us how competitiveness and employment in companies are not affected. If a small company, such as a craftsman, has a turnover of perhaps a few million kroner and a value of perhaps 10 million. kr., must pull 2-3 million. kr. in order to pay this inheritance tax, how does it not affect that company's competitiveness and employment? For it seems more logical to say that competitiveness is likely to suffer if you get a million bill and are a small company.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181824	In other words, the examples can always be discussed, and we can also discuss them in committee. However, I would like to say that what leading social economists who have dealt with it have said and the answers given by the Ministry under the previous government, which was also used by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur in his speech. I just think that the picture that Rasmus Jarlov uses here is a good one. I just think we have to recognise that sometimes we just have political differences. In other words, we have said right from the start that we believe that this was a very unequal tax relief, which, in particular, gave very large sums of money if large companies were to be inherited. It is fair enough that you want it; that is the way politics is. We just have a different attitude. We believe that this money should be spent on young people's education rather than on continuing the savings that you made. And just to say that it is not small change that we are talking about: if we were to maintain the savings that you made on education, we would have to find 700 million. kr. I mean, 700 million was to be saved. kr. every year. And that's what we spend this money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181941	Thank you, Minister. I would remind you that direct indictments from the platform are not used in the Parliamentary Chamber. That is the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, for his second brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211181952	Perhaps it is too abstract for the Minister to relate to the fact that there are some real companies that have to pay these amounts. I do not really know how I can put the question in another way, but I can try to ask: if the tax minister himself got a bill of 2-3 million. kr., which he had to pay from his private economy, would his private economy be affected, or would it be insignificant for the tax minister's own private economy? In other words, there are many small businesses where the owner has a much smaller income than the tax minister pays and where you get a bill of 2-3 million. kr., so how would it be for the tax minister himself to get a bill of 2-3 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182038	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182039	Well, the answer gives itself. Of course: When you raise a tax as we do here and lead it back to 2017, it is clear that there are some who have to pay a higher tax. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, of course, also well. The previous government received less revenue by reducing the tax, and this was then granted as tax relief. And yes, yes, it's fine, you have to do that. We get by raising the tax, of course, an additional revenue which we then spend on investing in young people's education, because we think it is better for the Danish economy now and here and in the long term. That's why we do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182122	The next question is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182124	Well, it's a good thing, sir. Rasmus Jarlov finally got the answer out of the tax minister that it is of course going to go beyond the companies that are going to put this increased inheritance tax. It is good that sometimes you can get the tax minister to say the right words that can be understood. There are also some who win on it. I'm here with a headline from Dagbladet Børsen, which reads: "Capital funds can win at higher inheritance fees: "It gives some buying opportunities." Of course, it is also a result of that. Is that the objective? It looks like a thought, knowing that the new director of the capital funds is the old friend and ally of the tax minister for decades: former MP and former Minister from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen, who was designated Minister of Finance and who has helped to develop this policy and is now sitting over there, where the only people who benefit from this decision are sitting. Did it play in?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182231	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182232	It sounds like it's just before that, sir. Ole Birk Olesen is going to follow in Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen's footsteps and may see new job opportunities, but I don't know enough about that. There aren't those intentions. Our intentions are quite simple: we believe that there is a need to spend the money differently. We think it is better for the Danish economy that we can invest in education, that we can raise our welfare, that we can ensure that there is money for a significant green transition that gives Danish industry new opportunities, that we can raise labour market education. That is what we spend the money on, and we think it is better than giving a tax relief to some of the largest companies in Denmark to a particular extent. That is what the discussion has always been about, namely that it is and was crooked and that the bill was paid through savings on welfare and on education. I know the Liberal Alliance thinks it's fine. We just disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182332	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182333	It's a little weird to say something like that, that it sounds a little bit like sir. Ole Birk Olesen wants a job with the funds. That's not what it sounded like. It's in the tax minister's imagination that something like that happens. The treasure minister must have a very vivid imagination. But the question remains: does the Minister of Taxation agree that this probably means that more companies will move from being family-owned to being owned by capital funds? And, according to the tax minister, will this be a happy development?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182407	Social democracy and government have an interest in having a stable business structure. Of course, capital funds also have a role to play. You know that if you look at what they're doing. They are involved in a lot of companies and also help to support quite a lot of jobs. I am quite convinced that much of the future's business policy and growth opportunities lies in what is the overall product of the exercise that we have started now, since we greatly strengthen the framework conditions for operating in Denmark. For example, by investing in young people's education, for example by lifting labour market education, for example by ensuring a track that is now already internationally famous when it comes to the green transformation of our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182456	The next question is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182458	After all, we are dealing here with the implementation of the Finance Act, a Finance Act, which raises benefits for foreigners, such as: is on the integration service. In other words, you ensure that there is free Danish education for foreigners. I think it's 150 million. kr. You ensure that foreigners can get unemployment benefit after 1 year in Denmark, and it really is not small change that you are dealing with in this Finance Act, as the Minister of Taxation also rightly says. That is why it is necessary to increase the taxation of family-owned companies by one billion. kr., which means that there will be fewer investments and fewer jobs. And, by the way, it is not just a tax increase to the very highest, because this is because the former Socialist government removed the wealth tax circle, which made the assessments rise dramatically. Now you will also have a much higher tax rate, and that will then have no consequences. But can the Minister not just confirm the link and say that this money is for all the foreigners' concessions that have been made in the Finance Act. It really is not small change; I agree with the Minister. It is expensive to make such measures, and that is why we need to make such a tax increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182557	This is being done because we disagree with the priorities of the previous government. We disagree with what the Danish People's Party also had to say: to give the big business owners in particular, if they pass on the company's inheritance, so to speak, a very, very large tax relief. We have, too, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, experienced what it was for a campaign that was launched before this came into being. Well, this isn't the first time you've done this attempt. And who was running that campaign? And who's running the campaign now? It's them. And we just disagree with that, and therefore our view is that instead of giving a very, very large number of selected companies a very large tax relief if they are passed on, we believe that the money is better spent on investing in young people's education, increasing our research appropriations, strengthening the green, ensuring that Danish business can have new growth conditions, and securing new jobs here. We think this is a better priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182701	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182702	I fully agree that we have different priorities; the Social Democrats have given priority to the facilitation of foreigners in the Finance Act, and we should have given priority to something else. The question is whether this was at all a major tax relief, as they say. For back in 2015, you got a lot of millions of kroner in the box, because you raised the valuation for the companies by removing the wealth tax Circulation. In other words, the taxation of companies was increased; we then reduced the rate to cancel it again. Where is the great tax relief in that? We spent the money we got on the increase that the Socialists voted for to lower the rate. That's not a big increase. I would also just like to oppose the fact that it is only large companies that get something out of this, because it is also agriculture, the carpenter master or a small wholesale company, and it can be anything else. It's not just a giant company that gets something out of these generational things. It's basically all family-owned businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182754	That is why, as the Economic Council recommends, we are also doing so, for example, in order to ensure that the inheritance tax in this area can be tranquilized. That is what the deferral scheme and special legal requirements help to ensure. At the same time, Mr. After all, Dennis Flydtkjær also said that the government has precisely today ensured the majority that we can implement the proposal for selling pledges as another aid to young farmers, for example. So there are, after all, many initiatives in progress which help to support that we can continue to have a strong and viable Danish business community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182838	The next question is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182841	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now I can barely remember what time in the last few weeks it is that we stand together in this Chamber. But we have at least been talking about simplistic committees, and we have talked about tax on mobile phones and much more. In this connection, the Minister has always assured me and everyone else that there will be listening, there will be looking at business, professional organisations and many others. And then I'm a little confused here. Because, precisely in connection with this proposal for a higher tax on generational change, there are a number of trade unions, a number of trade unions, a number of professional organisations which strongly warn against this particular proposal. Does the Minister think they feel heard in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211182941	That is clearly my view. And that is why we have implemented what the Economic Council has also recommended, that is to say, a legal requirement for a grace clause and, in other words, a market rate over 30 years which helps to give security about it, what can be said, exercise that you have to do if you want to pass on a business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183009	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183010	I have to admit, I'm still a little confused. Because in relation to the articles you read and the people you talk about, it's from this week. So I am a little confused when a number of trade unions, a number of trade unions and a number of business organisations say that this will cost jobs, that this will hurt Danish-owned family businesses. Does the Minister really believe that they feel seen, heard and listened to?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183042	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183043	At any rate, I have been able to note that a number of those who have spoken are honouring the government that we have chosen to give a legal claim for a grace period of up to 30 years. Then there are also a number of trade unions which have been involved in the debate, who are particularly pleased that the government is doing away with the huge savings made by the previous government in the field of education, and which, of course, affect many of our so-called outskirts municipalities, which affect our youth education and which have been the seeds of Danish industry having sought more investment in education. That's what we're honouring now. And there I have to say that on the bottom line is just a political disagreement: we would rather spend money on education and others would rather spend it on major tax cuts for some very large business owners. And that's fair enough, but there's the election.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183140	Thank you, Minister. The next question is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183143	Thank you. Finally, the Minister said that there is political disagreement on the bottom line. I can confirm that. We are deeply, deeply and deeply divided about the priorities underlying this, and I think the Minister should see that the commitment of the Left here is really rooted in a political disagreement, but also a concern for the 850,000 jobs in family-owned companies. That is why I have to ask the Minister, when the Minister says that it is a political disagreement, if not the Minister, after all, agrees that for us and also for the current government it is important to ensure that we can maintain and preferably increase the number of jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183238	That goes without saying, and that is also the policy of the government. That is why we have done what can be said to be one of the world's most ambitious climate plans. There is impressive support from the large locomotives as well as small and medium-sized enterprises for the new climate partnerships, with an increase in research efforts and an increase in training efforts. After all, this is all about ensuring that Danish industry has the best possible conditions for growth, also in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183308	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183308-2	But can the Minister guarantee that there will not be one of the 850,000 jobs that will have to either move out of the country or close down caused by the changes proposed by the bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183323	The Minister can guarantee that the government is doing everything it can to ensure the best possible growth and development opportunities for Danish business. That is why we are making rather major priorities which support what the Danish business community also lives on: education, research, the green future and the upgrading of employees in the labour market. That is what the government's agenda is, and that is in it, of course, the political disagreement also exists, and I think we agree on that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183349	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions for the Minister. Since no one else has asked to speak either, the debate has ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191211183412	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 12 December 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
