ParlaMint-DK_20190312130043	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130046	I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130100	Thank you very much. As the President has just said, it is an extended Question Time with the North Atlantic mandates. I think that's a good tradition. I attach great importance to the Kingdom community, and I hope that it is not a surprise so late in the parliamentary term. I really appreciate it. I love the kingdom community. Just this weekend I was in the Faroe Islands. I am on a regular basis, and it is fantastic to come there and see how the visit to the Faroe Islands is progressing with record low unemployment and with the highest employment rate throughout Europe. There is no country throughout Europe where so many men and women of working age go to work and with a population rising and leaving is replaced by entry. I get it. It's a nice country. Last week I had a visit from my colleague from Greenland, President Kim Kielsen, where we signed an ownership agreement for the joint Greenlandic-Danish company to build and operate new, modern international airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat, a hugely important step for Greenland towards a stronger and more self-supporting Greenland. And I am glad that a united Parliament has supported Danish participation in that project, thank you for that. This is a concrete example of our cherishing and caring for our Kingdom community. There's a lot we need to be careful about. We must also take care of our common future, and that is why we in Denmark have high green ambitions. I know that from time to time some people are trying to patent this. But the fact is that the green transition in Denmark has been created through broad conciliation. Since the change of system in 2001, the share of green electricity in Denmark has almost quadrupled. During the same period Denmark has had a bourgeois-liberal government for 14 of the 18 years that have passed. My own party has participated in all the energy agreements. This summer we entered into the Danish Parliament's greenest energy agreement, and only last week we decided to place Thor, Denmark's largest offshore wind farm, in the waters off the west coast. It must be ready in 2027 and supply a minimum of 800 MW of electricity equivalent to no less than the consumption in 800,000 households. It's in every way big. Great is also the climate issue that we have presented. There must be less air pollution, we must have cleaner buses in cities, and we have the historically high ambition of completely phasing out the sale of petrol and diesel cars by 2030; then there will be 1 million green cars. This, of course, requires that we have more electric cars, including in the public sector and also in the state; here we are not good enough. The government has set up a commission with Anders Eldrup in charge, which will now look at how we can implement this ambition in practice and also in a way so that we do not knock the bottom out of the Treasury. This is an important work, because we all want this, but I also think that we all have to deal with the fact that everything else equal means that there is 50 billion. kr. that disappears if we don't come up with something. Therefore, a thorough work with Anders Eldrup in the lead. It is also my ambition that we put forward a new climate bill in the next Assembly. By then, there will have been parliamentary elections. There are 96 days for it to have been held. After all, our ambition extends beyond the 96 days. It is a joint project at Christiansborg, and it is also out of Christiansborg. The Climate Minister has just presented a new Youth Climate Council with ten members elected from 400 applicants. There's a huge commitment on the part of the young people. It looks good for the future. The government has recently established a climate partnership with Agriculture & Food and Organic Landsforening, and in recent days we have seen that Danish Crown and Arla, which are large and important Danish cooperatives, have set ambitious targets for the entire value chain from land to table, for pig meat, for milk. It shows a way forward. This is important because a small country can make a big difference when we engage politically, in civil society, in business and in the rest of the world. This is what we do with the Danish P4G initiative, Partnerships on Green Growth and the UN's World Goals. This is an idea that we launched at the UN General Assembly one and a half years ago and that has gained more support than I had dreamt of. It has supported our position as a green forerunner and has contributed to the fact that the UN Secretary-General has now just asked the Danish Government to lead the entire energy trail in the work towards the next climate summit, which will be held in New York in September. It is a task which, apart from Denmark, is only entrusted to the largest allerall countries in the world, and Denmark is chosen by the UN Secretary-General because we take leadership because we create green concrete results. I think we can afford to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130634	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. It is first Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130651	Thank you very much. Soon it will be four years in this parliamentary period. It has been an eventful period in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark. We have achieved a large number of results which are of benefit to Greenlandic society and, in fact, with Greenlandic spectacles, we have more than tenfold the political results of this parliamentary term. A Danish-Greenland agreement has been reached on airport investments in Greenland. Greenlandic MPs are also for the first time ever involved in financial law negotiations and partly in conciliation negotiations, and there are new changing initiatives for business development, education and research aimed at Greenland. In addition, more than ever before, there is also an increased focus on knowledge of each other in the Kingdom community. Unfortunately, it is a pity that a majority here in the Danish Parliament only focuses on the fact that Danish young people have to learn about the history of the Kingdom community, because by telling about modern Greenland we could remove prejudices rather than create new ones. The relationship between Greenland and Denmark is often compared to a relationship, including here in the Assembly Hall. And after many years of a lukewarm relationship between Greenland and Denmark, we may be finding an increased equivalence and perhaps finding the melody with each other; not least, we are finding respect for each other's diversity, and perhaps we are in fact a little closer than we have done before, and that is positive as long as we have a partnership where both parties want to invest energy in each other. It should not be a secret, however, that it is still far from being able to call the relationship fully equal. The airport agreement refers to a concept called balanced equal value. What are the ideas behind this concept, and what visions does the Prime Minister have for a long-term more equal partnership between Greenland and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130854	Thank you. And then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312130856	Thank you so much. And so also thanks for this description of an increased commitment to Greenland by the government, a closer cooperation, a number of concrete results. It is also my own experience, which is why I would also like to sign for it and thank the other way. Now it is not such a dance that we are at here, so there are 96 days before that choice has to be held, isn't it? But it is true that so many questions are probably not on the calendar, so this is an excellent opportunity to thank you for your cooperation. Moreover, I very much agree that we must break down prejudice, and that also requires an insight into what might be called modern Greenland. That's why some of my personal priorities can be prioritised through this 25 million pool. kr., more youth exchange, i.e. between Denmark and Greenland and between Greenland and Denmark. Greenland is far away, and with the current infrastructure it is also an expensive place to get to. That is why it is often the case that school classes tend elsewhere, in other words towards Europe instead of towards the Faroe Islands or Greenland, and there we can make a small contribution to a new focus. I think that is really, really important. When the term balanced equal value is used, it is of course because it is important for us and it applies to both the President of the Government Kim Kielsen and myself to emphasise that the airport construction in Greenland is a Greenlandic project, that is to say that it is a Greenlandic run project. And that is why Denmark is not a fully equal partner we are part of as a minority shareholder. So it's balanced equal worth so it actually turns the other way around. I am glad that this openness has been shown in Greenland to also look to Denmark in terms of raising capital. The project becomes much more feasible with the Danish commitment, but it is just important to stress that it is therefore a Greenlandic project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131057	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131100	Thank you very much. This year, it is 10 years since we gained autonomy in Greenland. It was a day that we were many in Greenland celebrating and thought should also be a new era. It created hope for a better and a more responsible future for Greenland, and now we are here almost 10 years later, and this gives us reason to take stock. We have certainly promoted Greenland's role in the Folketing, and I do not think there is anyone here in the Folketing who doubts that elected representatives from Greenland, both in Inatsisartut and in the Folketing, should be heard. But none of the 32 areas have been taken home 10 years later, and this is despite the fact that at least 8 of the areas could be taken home tomorrow if it was that Greenland wanted it. Experience shows that Greenland awaits Denmark, Denmark awaits Greenland when we talk about updating these 32 areas. Why is there this belly? Why is it that it takes so long to ensure that we have some more areas in Greenland taken home? Is there anything the government can do to promote this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131205	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131207	In fact, I believe that this is an issue to be raised in Nuuk. For as the legislation is built up, it is, as it has been in the Faroe Islands, in Nuuk and in Tórshavn, that areas are taken home. So it rests on what one might call a Greenlandic appetite to take tasks that are solved by Denmark, by the kingdom community, in Greenland. So this is a debate to be held there. So when the ambition has actually been lower than what I myself experienced when I was in Nuuk 10 years ago, it is probably related, if we are to be open to each other, that Greenland also has a number of challenges about being financially self-supporting, about having the necessary resources. It is also in this context that I attach enormous importance to achieving this closer cooperation, including closer industrial cooperation. For the basic prerequisite for being able to live out the appetite for being more self-sufficient is that you have the power to do so. But it is a debate that belongs primarily in Nuuk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131320	Here you go, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131322	Thank you very much. That is what we believe from Inuit Ataqatigiits. After all, we are in opposition in Greenland and simply believe that words should also follow action. Soon we will have to go to an election, and the choice of a future Prime Minister and a future Parliament is, of course, also an area that we follow from Greenland. The Prime Minister has said that the election is printed when leaves appear on the trees, and when you come from Greenland, it is such a strange way of seeing things. According to the Constitution, North Atlantic MPs have the same status as the rest of our Danish colleagues in here and as our Faroese colleagues, and there have clearly been some improvements over the last four years. I would like to pay tribute to the Prime Minister for that. I would like to know if this is something we will also see if you are going to sit at the table in a government after the election of the Parliament.I am sorry that I came to use a direct indictment - and then I would like to hear the Prime Minister when he expects the magazines to come on the trees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131425	It offers fantastic opportunities, because there will be some places in Greenland where there will never really be leaves on the trees, and if I could use it as a benchmark, then we end up in conditions that you only see in other countries around the world, where the elections are just pushed out for an infinity, most recently in Algeria. So I can guarantee that the elections have been held within 96 days. I think that there are some places where the ice should break up and where some villages should be navigable before we get there. As far as the question is concerned, I am not going to stand here and campaign. However, I am genuinely concerned about our community, as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen described in her opening remarks, as being that it may have been a rather lukewarm relationship, but it seems that we are finding some spark again. I think that is a good thing. And that's a spark I don't want to turn off. My own view of this is that Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark all win on this collaboration, and that it must be founded on respect and equality. And then we need to use the benefits of pooling our powers in certain situations. The airport construction is a fantastic example of this, because the fact that there is a Danish commitment ensures that Greenland has access to some cheap capital, and thus these projects become much more feasible. That is something I want to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131551	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond, NQ.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131602	Thank you. Yes, four years are coming to an end, and it has certainly been exciting to be here in the Danish Parliament and work at the Danish Parliament. A lot of good results have also been achieved for the Greenlandic people. But the spark hasn't always been there. The Danish gain from contracts with the US military has only been increasing in recent years, and a number of Danish companies earn billions of kroner on the goodwill which among other things. the cooperation around Greenland and Thule Air Base leads to Denmark. At the same time, unfortunately, we see in connection with Thule that the United States is removing the few military contracts that Greenland benefited from. But when the United States can afford to invest billions in Danish production of military equipment for their war machine, they can also afford to pay for at least parts of the cleanup on abandoned bases left by the same war machine in Greenland. At the same time, we can read in the media that the United States has contributed 100 million. Dollar for cleaning up after abandoned stations in Arctic Canada, precisely because they have DEW Line Cleanup Criteria, DCC, for pollution specifically for the Arctic. Does the Prime Minister not think that the United States should take greater responsibility for cleaning up the remains in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131728	Thank you. I do not quite recognize the picture that it is a narrow Danish interest that there is American presence in Greenland and that Greenland itself does not enjoy it at all. Just to address the basic preface: Well, American presence in Greenland and elsewhere in Europe is one of the things that has helped to ensure that we have had this part of the world in peace and harmony for generations. We must stick to that, and we must also do so in a situation where things are getting worse, with an increasingly aggressive Russia. Then it is true that we must try to keep the Americans firm to deliver to Greenlandic civil society as well. That is why we have also followed up the whole question of Thulebasen and the service contract there. There is currently a supply in Thulebasen around the sailing, which I hope will come out in a way that supports Greenlandic society. When I was at Thulebasen a few months ago, I had the opportunity to talk to them about how to create a greater commitment to Greenlandic civil society, among other things. by creating internships for Greenlandic young people, where a great deal of effort is being made, not just by sitting and waiting for Thulebasen for young Greenlanders to come up and raise their hands, but also by sailing up and down the coast to spread knowledge of the business opportunities that exist around Thulebasen. And we have to keep the Americans on that. I also note with satisfaction the letter of intent that came from the US Department of Defence some months ago, which shows an ambition to engage with investment in Greenland, which also benefits civil society. As far as cleaning up is concerned, then we agree with Naala Suisut that we need to clean up after a former American military presence in Greenland, and that is also in the light of the fact that, in the last defence settlement, we have set aside resources of 180 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312131941	Greenland has never questioned whether the Americans are helping to create security in the western We have not questioned that. But we question what the Americans are doing in Greenland, and we also question the lack of commitment that the Americans have to Greenland. For too long the United States has not wanted to take responsibility for their own military waste in Greenland, and this is a situation that Denmark has for too long done nothing seriously about. That is why my party chairman from Nunatta Qitornai, Vittus Quijaukitsoq, complained to the United Nations about this. The UN Commission on Human Rights stated that responsibility for all this pollution was Denmark alone. As a result, Denmark was suddenly able to find 180 million. kr. to this cleanup. The military waste of the past must, of course, be handled by the person responsible and 180 million. kr. is to such an extent at the bottom of a complete clean-up. Is the Prime Minister willing to allocate more funds to the Finance Act to clean up in the future too?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132055	I do not quite recognize the history of the fact that it should be because of the request which was otherwise withdrawn by the Greenlandic Government, because perhaps the then minister was a little out of his own mind that it should suddenly have initiated a Danish interest. It's a picture I don't recognize. We have had a good dialogue with Naala Suisut for a number of years, and this has been reflected in the defence settlement we have concluded where resources have been set aside. It is clear that we are going to have to consider on an ongoing basis whether the resources are sufficient in relation to what is a Danish-Greenland ambition level, and the next natural place to do so is when we approach the end of the six-year defence settlement that we have concluded and which, moreover, has been adjusted in a supplementary agreement with additional amounts over the last years of the conciliation period, which has not yet been implemented. So this is a question we are going to discuss. My own experience is that we have a good and trusting collaboration with the Greenlandic authorities on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132205	Thank you. Here you go for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132207	If a complaint has been lodged with the United Nations, it cannot be withdrawn, which is why the United Nations must act accordingly. It is important to ensure that respect and cooperation between Greenland, Denmark and the United States continue in a way so that we are all satisfied and we all get something out of it. In Greenland there is understandably an expectation that we should be compensated for making our country available for the military activities of the Americans. Until now, we have been spared acts of war in connection with the presence of the United States, but neither of forced relocations, nuclear accidents nor of pollution of our precious nature. It must be appropriate to work for a new agreement between Greenland, Denmark and the United States as three equal partners, all of which win something on the cooperation. Does the Prime Minister have any ambition to take the initiative for a new defence agreement when the defence settlement is over, where Greenland is with that replaces the 1951 agreement between the United States and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132311	I have ambitions to maintain the excellent, good, confidential and trusting cooperation that I have with Kim Kielsen, and which I have had with it at all times, and these questions are matters from government to government. Full respect for the fact that it is being taken up here, but when we negotiate with Greenland, we do so with the Greenland Government, and we have a good cooperation, and I note with satisfaction that the Minister for the Environment and Food, together with the President of the National Government, reached a joint agreement last year on cleaning up. So I do not have the picture that Mrs Aleqa Hammond has that this is conflicting. I have the impression that we have good cooperation, which we must maintain, and also good cooperation not only to look backwards, but also to look forward, also in relation to looking at the possibilities of American presence in Greenland. That's why we both at Kim Kielsen and myself took this lighter of intention down positively. That is why we are following this supply of maritime transport to Thulebasen, and that is why I said a moment ago that, when we extend the defence settlement, it would also be quite, quite natural to look again at these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132430	Thank you, and that concludes the question. Here you go, sir. Magni Arge, Tjóðveldi.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132443	Thank you, Madam President. Now we have discussed on several occasions the issue that the Faroe Islands need foreign policy freedom to negotiate and conclude agreements with other countries in their own name and the possibility of participating independently in various intergovernmental bodies, such as the European Union. is concerned with trade and fisheries. And the need is growing every day, because Denmark's interests are calibrated in relation to the EU, while the Faroe Islands have to find their own ways in international trade and fisheries policy matters. At the weekend the Prime Minister, as we heard, was at a national meeting in the Faroe Islands with the Sister Party of the Sambands party, and as I understood it, even the very conservative leader of the Sambands party expressed the same wishes, although his choice of words was perhaps a little more cautious. If it made an impression on the Prime Minister, can we expect that we will soon have a play on that front? And what's that all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132551	Thank you, and then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132553	Thank you. Well, there is no question, because this is a cooperation project, and without me being too polemical and interfering in Faroese internal relations, I just have to say quite quietly that it has been a little difficult to run it off. I think that it was at the Kingdom meeting at Christiansø in the summer of 2017 that I suggested that we start work on the DFG scheme in two tracks, a legal and practical-pragmatic. There was general support for this, and if you want to write history about it at some point, you will find that it took a little time to get it started and get a commitment on it, also in Tórshavn. But we are at work, and that is why there is work going on between the office of the layman, my office and the office of the President of the Land, where we are looking at these things. For I both recognise and fully understand the Faroese ambition. I do, but I also fully acknowledge and understand the Danish constitution and the framework it sets and a kingdom is one kingdom. That's why it's all about going into this with a high degree of pragmatism and maybe sometimes also putting away a little of the symbolism and then going for the concrete results. That's my approach to it. The first opportunity to take stock of how far we have come is at the next Kingdom meeting, which will take place here in a relatively few weeks, at the beginning of April. I do not remember the exact dates, but it is at the beginning of April in Greenland, where the President, the Layerman and I will of course ask our respective staff to give us an assessment of how far this work has come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132745	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132748	One important point here was that the meeting will take place sometime in April, because I assume that means that the elections will be a little later than that. I was interested to hear whether you had been impressed by the fact that even Bárður Nielsen had so clearly expressed the Faroese wish in this respect. I have another question, and it was also up to me this weekend at home in the Faroe Islands. It's about section 7 of the Home Rule Act. It is about ensuring the Latting influence on the design of laws and regulations relating to the Faroe Islands. As I understand it, the Danish authorities and the Faroese authorities interpret Article 7 differently. In Denmark it is considered that it is enough to submit proposals for a report to the Faroese authorities, while the Faroe Islands' management system requires that the proposals be submitted to the Working Party for consideration. It is a major difference and a problem in relation to the management system when proposals are put into effect without the Latting having dealt with them. The Home Rule Government of the Faroe Islands has then reached out and recommended that you sit together to clarify a future procedure that both parties can feel secure about. Is this a matter that you want to deal with, and do you also see it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132907	It's still called away the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312132910	Thank you. Everything, sir. Bárður Nielsen says to me, makes a deep impression on me. When I didn't make a direct reference, it's because it's not only this weekend, I've seen that there's a high level of ambition in the Faroe Islands, too, I knew that before this weekend. And I have also discovered that there is a very great focus on how Denmark complies with the mutual rules of the game • respect for it and we shall discuss that. So I have the claim that it goes the other way too. Because I can also, if I wanted to, take examples where I think that the Faroese Laying in relation to readmission issues, for example. has run the cases very, very far before reaching Denmark, and in fact in this way created completely unnecessary barriers. So all we can do to get cooperation based on mutual respect and no prejudice, I think is positive. I am not going to interfere in Faroese relations, but I would just like to make the appeal that when you look out, you also look to Denmark. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. to create a new acting house in Tórshavn and look for international investments, it is sad if you say in advance that they are not allowed to be Danish. When a large Danish general fund, Novofonden, says that they want to reach out and promote diabetes work with new diabetes centres in Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, I just think that when I sit and look at it from the outside it would be nice if you took down such an approach and treated it quickly and offensively. So I think there are a lot of things we can do to create a better Danish-French cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133047	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133049	Now my question was on section 7 of the Home Rule Act, and it is, after all, a law that I assume that both the government and the Lagtinget and the national government are complying with, and it is not so much about private companies' investments in the hospital sector, so I shall not comment on that further. But I can hear that the Prime Minister is very committed and interested. Will it then mean, if the Prime Minister is going to continue after a forthcoming parliamentary election, that we will then see a dynamic banner leader for the development of a dynamic relationship and a development of relations between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, where one might see that on the one hand the parliamentary representation and the block support will come into play, and on the other hand we will see that the Faroe Islands will develop into an independent nation in mutual cooperation? Then I'm gonna do a little publicity for this at 9:00. A hearing will begin in the Landstingshall, which deals with the global goals in North Atlantic light, and everyone will have the opportunity to brief themselves, among other things. with Aksel Johannesen around the World Goals and Høgni Hoydal around the new fisheries reform, and how things work in the Faroe Islands and where the aspirations lie in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133155	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133157	I would very much like to come to that, but we have not finished the Question Time, so unfortunately I cannot. The question that was asked is one that one can hardly answer no to, that is, if I had imagined that if I was re-elected, that I would be dynamic and that sort of thing. I will not stand by and deny that, so it will be my absolute ambition to be dynamic. Even if it leads to it, as Mr. Magni Arge is trying to make me, but as he cannot get the Faroese to work hard to ensure that the Faroe Islands, like the Faroe Islands, are freed from the kingdom community, I cannot stretch the dynamics to it. I think it would be sad. I think we should use the dynamics of the Danish-Fieroian relationship to work in an equal way to ensure that both our countries get richer and develop, and that is also why I allow myself to suggest some of those things, because sometimes, to put it frankly, I have such an experience that some people become so emotional about this relationship that it really becomes a barrier to something that would otherwise be for everyone's good, but that is my political assessment, and it is different from Mr. Magni Arges, but, sir... Magni Arge is also a Republican.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133312	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133321	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister said he's just been to the Faroe Islands. In fact, I also had a leave of absence from the Danish Parliament last week, where I had my seat in Lagtinget instead. Last Thursday a resolution was tabled in the Faroese Parliament stating that the Latting supports the abolition of parliamentary mandates and that the national government promotes the will of the Latting towards the Danish Government in this matter. The proposal was put forward by the President himself. Now it is the case that Paragraph 32 of the Constitution. 5 actually opens the door for it to be done, for it says: "The entry into force and termination of Faroese and Greenlandic parliamentary mandates can be provided by law. In my time here in the house, the Danish Parliament has always followed it when the Faroese side has wanted a change of law in an area in which the Danish Parliament has the legislative competence in this sense the cooperation has been quite exemplary. But what does the Prime Minister think the government will do if there is a request from a Faroese majority that there should be no parliamentary elections in the Faroe Islands, or that the Faroese members' membership of the Folketing should cease? Will the government then use section 32 of the Constitution to counter Faroese wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133452	I cannot imagine that unless there is a clear legal assessment from the Ministry of Justice, which says that we must, in order to answer it quite frankly. So, I have heard about the proposal that has also been made by a Republican, namely the chairman of the Lattinget, who is from Tjóðveldi, who wants the Faroe Islands free from Denmark. You have to deal with that bill yourself. I will, of course, obtain legal judgement if it is adopted, and if it obliges me and the Danish Parliament here to take note that there should not be parliamentary elections in the Faroe Islands, then law is law. However, I can express my policy and opinions here, and I think this is a strangely backward way of taking an independent debate, as well as trying to peel the relationship from the inside instead, if that is what one wants, to fight that battle openly and demand a Faroese vote on secession.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133552	Thank you. We are living in these days during a transitional period. There's an election campaign, and we're going on a bridge over to something that we don't quite know what is. Unlike myself, I assume that the Prime Minister is reasonably sure of his re-election to this assembly, but perhaps not quite sure of his re-election as Prime Minister. Perhaps there will be another head of government there in a few weeks' time, and another representative of the Faroe Islands will be here. Maybe it's not a bridge we're going on, maybe each of us is politically moving the plank out. Perhaps we are in some sort of bizarre way politically involved or at least spectators at our own political funeral. These are the conditions now. But in that case, I would like to thank you for the years that have passed and for the cooperation that has been going on (Murrhed For despite some knots, the cooperation between me and the government and between Denmark and the Faroe Islands has been good at all in recent years. There has been a good tone in recent years, and I believe that this is not least due to the Prime Minister's commitment. Thank you. But if it should happen that the Prime Minister loses his post as Prime Minister at the next election and another person takes over, what advice will the Prime Minister give to his descendant when it comes to handling the overall relations between Denmark and the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133727	Thank you. So encouraged: Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133730	Thank you. Well, I didn't put all the black clothes on today. I'm in the shades of light gray, because I don't experience such a funeral mood. But may I not just say thank you for what I saw in this way as nice, well-intentioned words. I have also appreciated the cooperation and hope that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale from a personal point of view will also be to find in the Folketing forward-looking, so that in each of our positions we can maintain a forward-looking good cooperation relationship. We'll see. Of course, I also have the best wishes for my own sister party. We can't all be elected, even for this seat. I can say that the good advice I will give myself in the future and I will do so here in the open space, so that others can take it down is to show commitment. I think it is important that we give the Kingdom community the attention that the Kingdom community deserves. This requires commitment, and it takes time to invest, because to put it frankly: if you do not decide to do so, it can be very easily wiped out in relation to everything that is per year. Automatically draws, that is, European Council meetings, United Nations General Assembly, Nordic Council, National Association of Municipalities, Danske Regions.We then try to correct that, then it releases a little time, but there are many things that draw. And with a Faroe Islands that is as self-supporting as the Faroe Islands are because there is a fantastic development in the Faroe Islands at the moment • it is not the case that the problems fall into the letter tray. So to maintain a relationship, it requires investment, commitment. I intend to continue to show this, and it must be an appeal to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133914	Last round, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312133915	Thank you. Now it's about me. The election in the Faroe Islands to the Danish Parliament is usually very, very close, very few votes tend to separate winners and losers and so it is not at all certain that I will be here in a few weeks; either because one decides to abolish the Faroese mandates or because the voters vote in such a way that they do not want their own best, one can say. Laughter in the Chamber Sometimes they do, but not always. If we assume that another Faroese mandate will be here in a few weeks' time, what advice does the Prime Minister have for a Faroese parliamentary politician? What is the government's experience in this regard? How does the government feel that as a Faroese member of the Folketing you are achieving a good relationship and some good results in this house?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134013	I actually feel a little more comfortable about that, sir. Sjúrður Skaale is the sender of, in relation to the Sambandsman or the representative of Fólkaflokkurin who is to take over after Mr. Sjúrður Skaale or how things are going. It could also be another from Javnaðarflokkurin. Because it is my own impression that the North Atlantic Members have, I think, also been confirmed during this Question Time, as it has unfolded and actually felt, across political differences, well treated by the government that is currently sitting and has had a good relationship. That's how I see it myself. Sir, I'm afraid so. Sjúrður Skaale himself thought about how things could have gone so well. And to the extent that it has been that way, sir. Sjúrður Skaale has acted on, so there is plenty of advice you can give on, so I just think you should do that. I feel that, regardless of who the Faroese people choose, because there is democracy, it would be my intention to have the closest possible relationship of cooperation in the future, and that applies, moreover, regardless of the position in which I may be here, if I am elected at all. It is impossible to know; it is the voters who decide it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134126	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134140	Oh, I don't suppose the PM will get re-election after all. I really do not know how to start, except, of course, by thanking you for your advice, if the mandates fall out differently and a new government is to be formed after the next elections. I think the advice is exactly the right one. Collaboration in the community requires a really great commitment. I believe that we can go even further in being equal partners: three countries, three nations and three people; and this is a job which, fortunately, many of us care about regardless of political affiliation. Then I noted that the Prime Minister mentioned a number of international tasks that you have as Prime Minister, which is why it can be difficult to have time for the Kingdom Community as well. After all, there are also some national tasks that are really important. That's one of them I'd like to discuss with the Prime Minister today. We in the Social Democratic Party have proposed the introduction of a right to an early retirement pension, not a right to a senior early retirement pension or a similar scheme, but a right to a previous old-age pension. And we have proposed this, and we propose it, and we will insist on doing everything we can to achieve it, because we can see that there are quite a lot of ordinary good Danish employees who have worked very many years on the Danish labour market and who have done everything we as a society have asked them for. Part of them are now worn out by going to work. As a Social Democrat, I think it is important, when one has, so to speak, served on the labour market, that one day one can close the door with a straight back and resign the labour market and know that one has done one's thing and that one should not go through a search and not ask anyone for a dignified withdrawal, but have the right to be able to leave the labour market with dignity and dignity. I think we owe this to worn-out Danish employees who have been on the labour market for many years. I did not get an answer to my question when we were here two weeks ago, so I will resume the discussion today. Will the Prime Minister help to introduce a right to an early retirement pension for those who have been on the labour market for many years and who have been worn out by going to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134402	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134404	I mean, I feel like if you're worn out, you shouldn't work. I also feel that if people are to be treated equally, they really have to be treated differently, because not everyone is worn out, some are worn out and we see, fortunately, in these years too, that a lot of people work beyond retirement age. So it is probably more a choice of method than a difference of opinion, because how do you treat people differently in order to treat them equally? The Social Democrats have put forward a proposal which I am simply not yet able to find the head and tail of, which is that within the framework of 3 billion. kr. will give some Danes the opportunity to quit three years before. Who are they, and who aren't they? I can't judge this idea. I can see that for 3 billion. kr. I think there would be within the vicinity of 2,850 Danes, who would be able to make use of this scheme. That's the level, I guess. So what is it like to delineate the 2,850 Danes? Is it via the trade union they're in or through the original letter they got? Well, this is where I think it's starting to get a little shimmering, so I can't judge the idea. I agree with the position My starting point is • but now it is being negotiated that we, the then government, created a senior early retirement scheme with the Danish People's Party, and I must say quite frankly that on Mrs Mette Frederiksen's initiative we had a deterioration in the scheme when we made the early retirement scheme, and we contributed to it, so we tightened up the rules on early retirement, and that is one of the reasons why that scheme was probably not as used as we thought when we made it in 2011. I think this is the right place to look at how to create more flexibility about it. As far as I am concerned, it is an equally serious situation whether you are worn out as a craftsman or a school teacher or a teacher. And I understand from the Social Democratic Party that you want to exclude some of these groups, and I can't control who it is and who it is that doesn't have to, and that's why it's hard to judge this idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134623	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134625	I cannot really understand why the Prime Minister does not understand our way of working, because it really reminds us of something the Prime Minister himself has done. The prime minister set out to destroy the payroll. That's what you wanted; that's what you did. And you called it out, gave a nice New Year's speech. They set out to destroy the post-retirement wage for ordinary good, solid Danish employees. The consequence of this we can see now, that people who have worked and dragged into this society and for this society, did everything we have asked them for, now cannot be allowed to retire early, even though they have been many years on the labour market; even though they have a much harder working environment than anyone in here at Christiansborg has; even though their pace of work is higher; even though they have entered the labour market earlier; even though they feel the consequences of their work perhaps mentally, but at least physically. So the PM did exactly the same thing. You set yourself a goal: you would destroy the reward. A method of doing so was found. We do the same thing, just with the opposite sign. We will introduce a right so that those who have been longest in the labour market and who have been worn out can be allowed to leave before the rest of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134735-2	Well, that's some fine, rehearsed lines coming in there. Well, I haven't set out to destroy anything. I've sat down and it turns me on every morning when I go to work to make sure this country is connected now and in the future. That is the reason why we made a welfare agreement at the time, which is the whole foundation of the Danish economy. It is based on the fact that we have a broad political agreement that, when we live longer, everything else must work longer. We then followed up on the withdrawal reform. I think it was Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself who tabled the bill in this Chamber. We were happy to vote in favour; we had lost the elections in the meantime, but that was Mrs Mette Frederiksen's bill. It was the government in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen himself was sitting who implemented what we agreed. What we agreed on then rested on the fact that if you, as an individual, could not stay on the labour market until you reached retirement age, then you should have the opportunity to get off in a dignified way, by the way, on a benefit of DKK 10,000-11,000. higher than the basic amount of the pension. On Mrs Mette Frederiksen's initiative, we then made an early retirement reform which made it harder to take early retirement and which has therefore also had an effect on the possibility of going to senior early retirement. That's the way it is, and we'd like to look at it. Then Mrs Frederiksen Mette Frederiksen talks about all sorts of people who should be able to stop early, but what is the proposal? That's 2,850 people the money's enough for. Is it the money that has to talk, that is, that it will be so few and who will be in it, and who will not? Or are these the expectations you are creating, because there must be parliamentary elections, which must be governing, and then you have to punch a huge hole in the treasury afterwards? That is the question that arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134918	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312134919	No, the question that arises is why we have not been able in this House to ensure a dignified withdrawal for workers who have been longest on the labour market, because it does not exist. And I certainly don't deny that we can make the senior early retirement better. That is what we are debating now. But that's just not what a lot of good, solid Danish employees want. Because they don't want to be searched for an earlier withdrawal. They are not where they cannot support themselves by ordinary work. It is proud, good Danish wage earners who have done everything we have asked them to do and who can now see that the early retirement is de facto abolished for many and that the dignified withdrawal no longer exists. And now that we are in the process of writing history, I would like to say that, since we are making the welfare settlement in 2006, there is one It chooses a majority then afterwards to change on • I would say destroy, de facto abolish. Unfortunately, in the 2011 elections, there was no majority to change that. Now I am asking the Danes for a mandate so that we can change it; so that we not only stick to a development where those who have the hardest jobs must also be longest on the labour market without a dignified withdrawal, but that we change course this time and tell those who have worn and dragged on this society that it is now their turn. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135038	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135040	I think it's floating. So, now I suddenly wonder whether the Social Democracy stands by the 2006 welfare agreement or whether you are going to elections on some sort of loose mandate and a promise that you can sort of break it up, or what? But hopefully there will be an opportunity to have some direct dialogues when we come to an election campaign, because we are not there yet. I simply need to know who is to be treated with dignity in the words of Mrs Mette Frederiksen and who is to be treated with dignity. For it is therefore unworthy, one must understand, to come up with a system which involves some form of visitation. It's an unworthy way. But it is a dignified way if it is a system in which one can join oneself. It's dignified. I think that is a strange way of talking about all those people who are on early retirement, in other words that they are subjected to something that is unworthy. But don't worry about it. So even if you take that as a basis, it must obviously be the case that those who do not have the opportunity and yet have the need must be treated undignifiedly because they are referred to the senior early retirement scheme, unless everyone and that is why Mrs Mette Frederiksen lacks to get away from those parades and brochures and so to speak openly to the Danes, who it is about. Is it the unskilled and only the unskilled and not the skilled? Are they the unskilled and the skilled, but not those with short and medium-term training? Are they the teachers, but not the school teachers? Are they the school teachers, but not the high school teachers? Well, who is it? For 3 billion. kr. There are 2,850 Danes who get an opportunity to quit 3 years before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135220	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135228	It's almost a bit too bad to interrupt the discussion... it's pretty exciting. But I'm sure it'll be reinstated. What I have planned is that we should talk about a Denmark in balance. And this is something where the government and the Danish People's Party have jointly made some decisions over the last 3 years. And last week there was an invitation to the inauguration of Augustenborg Castle on the occasion that the Danish Agricultural Authority is now housed there with 300-400 people at one of Denmark's perhaps most beautiful workplaces. And it gave me such an opportunity to remember what we have done in relation to the relocation of jobs to the country. It is the case that the National Audit Office has, there has been a lot of discussion about whether it is a success and how it has happened and how it has been assessed, and generally believes that the relocations we have made have been approved. It has become cheaper than expected; that is the starting point. The rent is a quarter lower in the province. It doesn't matter that taxpayers can save a little money on the rent. And for most people it has been easy to recruit, so where people have not moved with the workplace, it has been relatively easy to recruit the qualified people they needed. So all in all, overall, it has been a success. For us in the Danish People's Party, such things as these initiatives are not something you just do, and then that agenda is gone. We must continue, we must move forward, and what I think is the next jumping point is really our education sector, i.e. whether we ensure that we have education for young people across the country. And there we know that until 2030, in other words how many young people are going to be in upper secondary education, if we do not take political initiatives to ensure a sufficient spread of education provision, then that means that quite a lot of youth education in rural areas will be closed, with the result that young people will get much longer to an educational institution. And if there's anything that can make people drop out and not go to upper secondary school, it's if it gets too far. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister's statement that when we look at a Denmark in balance and it is good that we have talked about the relocation of jobs... some of what is really important in this debate, our entire education sector, and that there are good educations present for young people close to where they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135456	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135458	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I share the description of what we have done and which, frankly, was born in a little resistance. It was not the case that there was a completely unanimous Parliament and applauded the idea that we were now starting to look at whether more strategically we could move out selected state jobs. And that is perhaps no wonder, because we came after a government that moved jobs the other way, in other words into Copenhagen, and which planned to dismantle tax centres which we have now reopened, so we have avoided closing down those which were planned to close, and we have added more. So you've probably just had to get used to the idea before you seem to think it's important that there's life in the country. So it was born a little in opposition, but it's been a huge success. I share that observation. There are plenty of good examples. For example: in Viborg, where, on the basis of competences in Vestre Landsret and a strong legal environment, something is being built which will become unique and which will also start to sit in the way Aarhus University provides law education. And we're not finished, because there's also some of the things that need to be run home. But it can't be alone. I share the view that it is important that there is an offer for young people. That is also why we have invested in new training stations decentralisedly out there. We have invested some of the hated re-priority contribution in doing something more, i.e. by making satellites out there. We have also had several rounds to look at how to turn taximeter schemes, because there is a clear difference between whether you have a high school with relatively few young people or a large Copenhagen high school where all students are within a short distance. And I am completely open to the fact that this is a discussion that we must keep alive and keep going when we look forward at taximeter systems and other things. Because it is important and important for the settlement that there are job opportunities, that there are educational opportunities and that there are opportunities for development. That is also why we have worked together with planning laws and other things. And we have to stick to that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135702	Thank you. When we talk about education, it is of course the case that if we do not do something actively, quite a lot of youth education institutions in the local areas will close up towards 2030. So there are some active choices to be made. And it is clear that when there are fewer young people, there will be many institutions that think whether some things should be gathered and where they should then be gathered, and it is typically gathered in the big city. When it comes to vocational training and the vocational colleges, we also know that when we talk about the training we really need in relation to the core troops of our welfare community, it may be the nurses, we need some training offers that are spread around the country. And that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister specifically whether he would like to be involved in setting up an objective which is that, compared with the four largest cities we have in this country, it is said that 10%. of training places on e.g. universities had to out of the four largest cities • just 10%. And if we now also said that half of the places in vocational and vocational schools should be out of the four largest cities, then we would actually have a specific objective which would mean something for something to happen as well. The paradox of these educations is that at the time when the young people have little money between their hands, we are actually asking them to move into the big cities where it is most expensive to rent and most expensive to live. So this strategy to spread it out makes it easier for us to get the educations out there where the young people are already, so that they can find them more easily. And we are actually making it easier for young people to make the income and costs of living and living.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135842	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312135843	Thank you. I think it will be with a little too little preparation if I stood here and on the basis of some percentages just flowing through the room, said that I buy it. I think that would require a more detailed discussion. However, I agree with the perspective of ensuring that we maintain decentralized training provision. I also think that when you go down in it there will be a number of examples where this is not a either-or, but a boat-and. I mean, I can mention the way in which, for example, we do. now is able to offer medical education elsewhere than the original three faculties that were just a few years ago. Now we can do it meaningfully, that is, in Aalborg and Køge, and there is also an expert on the idea that there can be something in Esbjerg, and it is in a combination where you may be able to anchor a responsibility with a large university, but make sure to put teaching elsewhere. If you go to Herning, just to mention a city we both know • you can see how Aarhus University has misplaced the company to Herning, but it is still Aarhus University. So I think there are many ways into this, and I think there is a good discussion hiding for later on on how to set up the targets that will bring content to this ambition. Because I really share the basic ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140011	Yeah, but the numbers I mention aren't just picked up from the blue. You talk about if only 10%. of the places in the universities were moved outside the four largest cities. I think most people would think: Ah, but there are more than 10%. outside the four largest cities. But it is in relation to being down in those figures that we are trying to see if we cannot bring forward such objectives. What is my point here, and what is most important to say, is that, if we do not act actively as politicians, there will be a surge of centralisation in our education sector over the next five to ten years alone, due to the change in the number of young people applying for the various courses. So if we want to have a decentralized training structure because we know that this transport time thing means a lot to whether you apply for a youth education or not, then we must be politically aware of it and tell you how we want to feel. And it is also a discussion when we talk about the future of the regions and so on. We must be sure that this is actually something for which we take responsibility. And there should just be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party want this to be the next such big area that we will get to grips with in creating a Denmark in balance. In any case, I would like the Prime Minister to take note of this, in the hope that, in relation to the relocation of jobs, we could address the next major issue and be jointly sure that we have an educational structure that will enable us to have good educational institutions spread throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140142	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140144	I have noted that. That did not lead to any question, but I have noted it. And I just want to repeat that I think that when you go that way, there are several things you have to do. I think so. I believe that there is a continuing debate on how to fine-tune our taximeters where we have taximeter-controlled educational institutions, so that we also take due account of geography. Because the circumstances of running a high school or whatever it might be are different, depending on where in the country you are and what kind of student you have. I think there is something about getting our higher education institutions involved in thinking in satellites. Now it was a discussion that started here around the North Atlantic, and it is also a discussion that is going on up there. In other words, there may be an ambition to have some training courses that you really do not have the capacity to carry in such a small society. Danish educational institutions, so that they had shared teaching? Well, this is a lot of perspective. However, at the overall level of attitude, I would like to highlight an interest in following this up. We have done a great deal to liberalise the law of plans and give some more space to the municipalities out there so that something can happen; we have made a food and agriculture package so that optimism has come back in that part of our business; we have moved state jobs; we have made transport cheaper for the municipalities where there is a little longer between houses; we have taken some initiatives in the field of education here; we have taken a break with the government that was there before, which just shut down and moved it to Copenhagen. And that, of course, is a line we have to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140330	Thank you. The next is Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140337	Thank you. On Friday you could read a chronicle in Politiken, which was written by a now former head of a day's institution in Copenhagen. She ends with saying: When every day I see children who do not have the contact that is so vital, I have had enough and take the consequences. She has now resigned because she simply cannot be in it anymore. And last night you could then see a documentary on Danmarks Radio, which among other things. Tina's former daycare institution is part of. In that documentary there are, to put it mildly, several rather heartbreaking situations, and there are among others. a situation where in a crèche in Greve there are 3 adults to 31 crèches, i.e. diapers. At one point, there are just four children that need to be changed at once, and there is one educator to do that. There are several children crying, and there is a small child sitting in a pram crying, but there is no time to comfort the tiny baby. The pedagogue also emphasizes that this is not unusual at all, because it is often that they are 2 adults to 16 crèches. There is also a situation from a kindergarten where there are 44 kindergarten children on the playground. That's a lot of kids, but there's only two adults to take care of them! Then, of course, it happens in playgrounds in kindergarten • someone who falls and cries, and then there is one educator who comforts that child, and then there are 1 adult to 43 children! I deliver my daughter to the crèche every day, and I know that the Prime Minister also has children and has delivered them to the institution, and I think I speak on behalf of very many parents and very many educators when I ask the Prime Minister what the Prime Minister will do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140549	We will continue with what we are doing. We have among other things. A 1,000-day programme has been put forward, where money is also included, and where we have chosen instead of smearing the butter thinly all over the board to focus on the institutions that have particular challenges, because the children come from families that are facing challenges. Yes, I have delivered children, but it is a few years ago, I must admit, but I look forward very much to moving a generation up the hierarchy and having to deliver some grandchildren, and then I hope I will experience a picture that is a little more nuanced than what is described here. When you look at the picture from above, it is almost 9 out of 10 parents who express satisfaction with the daycare services, and more than 9 out of 10 of the children are happy with our daycare services. When you look at how it is rated widely across Denmark, you will see that there are about 3 children per year. adult in crèche age and about 6 children per year. adult in kindergarten age, i.e. from 3 years to school start. That's the big picture when you look at Denmark under one. This does not detract from the fact that there are probably challenges in some places which, of course, with the municipal autonomy that we have, are primarily a task for the municipalities. But I don't want to go shopping in a chronicle I haven't read, and take it as a proof of truth that everything is sailing and everything is a ruin, because that's not the picture I have. That's not the picture I have when I visit day care institutions myself. I hope there's room for that nuance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140748	There are very many parents who are very fond of their children's day care institutions, myself included. This does not change the fact that the norms are really bad, nor does it change the fact that the statistics that the Prime Minister is boasting about are a double-counting statistic if you have a substitute. It is simply not a useful statistic on reality. I would really like to spend more time on that, but I also have to ask about the announcement that has come from the Minister for Gender Equality this morning. Because in Denmark we have thousands of rapes that are never reported, and last week there was a report from Amnesty International which very, very clearly demonstrates that even when you try to report, there is still a very long way to go for proper treatment. So there are women who are still being asked whether they had put on provocative clothes, whether they are aware of what it means for the attacker's life, that they report, and whether they are now sure that they have not been responsible for it themselves. It's quite, quite awful stories. Fortunately, we could hear the Minister for Gender Equality say this morning that she fully agrees that we need legislation that reflects a set of values that we need to be decent to each other. In other words, we need consent-based rape legislation. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this is the position of the Left and/or the Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312140908	Thank you. In the light of that question, I push right aside what I might also want to replicate in relation to the exchange we had before. I'm very concerned that there's a lot of darkness when we talk about rapes. It is essential that it be there. That is why we need to do something, and I think we need to do more seriously, because I believe that this is not just about what criminal law we have, but is probably about more than that: what the whole setup is like, when you are a rape victim, when you turn to the authorities and what procedure there is. I think there are many, many things in it. But in relation to the material legal basis, it is my attitude ■ and it is of course also the government's • that sex requires voluntaryness. Sex requires volunteering, which is why you can only have sex with people who have consented. It is therefore also sensible to consider whether the existing wording of the penal code is appropriate and adequately reflects this view of attitude. Therefore, the right thing to do would be to ask the Criminal Code Council to make some suggestions on how to adjust the material provisions of the Criminal Code so that they reflect the position here, which I have seen with great satisfaction over the past few days and weeks have propagated quite widely in the social debate and indeed here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141100	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141101	I simply choose to accept this as a 'yes' to the fact that the Left and the Government are now in favour of us having a consent-based legislation. After all, in November the government voted against it and set up a committee of experts, and now you want the Criminal Law Council to look at how to do it. The Prime Minister may have to be a little more specific about what the Prime Minister says. Was it the same thing they said yesterday, or is the Left and the government with us now? The reason why this is so important is, of course, that we have perpetrators who walk free, and we have thousands of victims of abuse whose perpetrator is never convicted. We have examples of attackers walking free, even though women have wept; that attackers go free, even if women have slept; and that attackers go free, even though women have said no, but have apparently not resisted enough, despite the fact that in those cases the attackers have been reported and have been brought before a judge. What is the question is, of course, whether we should have a rape legislation that is materially aimed at whether she resisted enough, or whether we should have a rape legislation that is materially aimed at whether he secured his consent or not to reverse the burden of proof, but to prove that there was no consent. I know the PM understands the difference, so what does the Prime Minister think the rape law should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141227	Yes, I understand the distinction, and that is also the reason why I am expressing here the view that sex presupposes voluntaryness read: consent. Then Mrs Pernille Skipper also says quite rightly in a sequel that we should not have the burden of proof reversed. That shows exactly the complexity of this. From going away from a position that I share, and it is probably the case that what the Minister of Justice said a few days ago, and what the Minister for Gender Equality said yesterday or this morning, I heard it only this morning, so there is a nuance, a shift from what the government said in the autumn session. Because we are also listening to the debate, and our opinion is that sex requires volunteering read: consent. This is a different approach, and it should then be included in a new paragraph of the penal code, which one must take care of just to pour out of the sleeve, because Mrs Pernille Skipper knows very well about Mrs Pernille Skipper's own background, that 1-2-4, then this question arises as to how we can also ensure legal certainty and avoid getting into something with the reverse burden of proof. Therefore, the right place to start is to ask the Criminal Code Council to come up with a proposal for a rewording of the relevant provision of the Criminal Code, and we will initiate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141401	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141409	Thank you. There's almost been breaking news in this room today, and now I'm looking up at the press to see if you've caught it. I think this is almost the first time I remember that we have not discussed refugees and integration here in Question Time. It's a huge pleasure, and I'm not going to. On the other hand, we have talked about pensions and education and equality and norms, and it is so nice that we have some of the very large and wide debates, and it is not just very narrow. But in order not to be completely the day of surprises, I'm gonna talk about the green one anyway. After all, I have followed with great interest the European Union's meeting of the Left, where, at least verbally, it was really felt that the Left had ambitions in this area and that, as I said, they did not only have ambitions in the green area. Among other things: says Morten Løkkegaard, who is a leading candidate for the Left in connection with the forthcoming EU parliamentary elections, and now I quote directly: "We will elevate climate and environment to be a principle for making policy. We must incorporate and weigh the climate and the environment on an equal footing with the economy. That's the most important thing. It was just before in the Alternative we almost got out of the couches and applauded and thought: do we see a candidate coming over to us? You'd almost have thought it was based on our party program. But it's good that there are good people in the Left who say these things. Sometimes I really feel like I am acting in a political parallel universe, where there is one universe that is about political speeches, and there is the other that is about political actions, and sometimes all these good statements are fine, and I really thank them, but the question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister and the government have a concrete plan to get through what Morten Løkkegaard said at the national meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141626	Thank you. It is good to remind me that we must also remember the issue of foreigners. Because it can be said that the austerity of the government, combined with our European efforts, is one of the reasons why we can now invest 2.5 billion. kr. more in the neighbourhood, thereby taking pressure from Europe and giving people a better future in their own countries, which is also climate-relevant. Because we can do what we want in a country that accounts for 0.1%. of global CO2 That is why it has to go hand in hand, and that is exactly what happened at the National Assembly of the Left. Now, as Prime Minister, I have the dual privilege of being chairman of the Left, but the government is also made up of other parties, and I recognize the record of this meeting: a high ambition, a idea of creating a real climate and environmental pact in Europe. Of course, I'm behind that. The government is also working hard to ensure that we in Europe have the highest possible ambitions. We have, for example. the ambition that we should phase out petrol and diesel cars by 2030. After all, it is a far, far stronger ambition if it can be lifted up in Europe. We have set the ambition that Denmark should be climate neutral and independent of fossil fuels by 2050. It is much, much stronger if the whole of Europe can buy that ambition. We have set the goal that the coal will be phased out by our heat supply by 2030. We're part of an international alliance. It's a little loose in the edges. It is such a loose network, as among other things. Macron's been involved in the initiating. It is therefore much stronger if it can be lifted into a European framework in a situation where a considerable proportion of electricity in Germany today comes from coal and lignite. Well, right on the other side of the border, they produce electricity at lignite. So it would be natural for this government to work in a European path to have Danish ambitions lifted up, and that is not just words. I also mentioned the fact that Guterres, the UN Secretary-General, has asked Denmark to lead an initiative to the climate summit. That's because you look to Denmark and you say we can do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141846	Well, that's where the two parallel universes clash. Because on the one hand I have no doubt about the Prime Minister's green ambitions, but on the other hand you can also look at whether there is green action behind it. There we have, among other things. I should like to point out that the Netherlands and Belgium have gone out with a major proposal to create a common European aviation tax and that other countries have now mentioned them in order: France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Austria, Sweden and Luxembourg have backed up. Who didn't back up? Denmark did not. Denmark did not back up. Neither the climate minister nor the transport minister thought that this was a good proposal, and I am completely incomprehensible when the Prime Minister has just said how important this area is, and there are a number of EU countries with which we have a good relationship saying: we have to do something about making this European air tax. Why, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312141954	I do not rule out the fact that at some point we can support a common European fuel tax on aircraft. I don't. I just insist that we just carry our heads all the way, that we keep our hearts warm and our heads cold and our green focus. For what does it help to create a fuel tax if it is bypassed by the fact that the fuel is bypassed by the European Union, for example.? It's just to give you one example. So we have to use some energy to find out: what is the right solution to achieve a goal? We need to make air traffic more green, because, said with a smile on our lips, it's gonna go so wrong with all those holiday trips that the Members of the Alternative Parliament are going to make. So, rather than saving on it, we must try to make air traffic more green. I welcome the fact that SAS has set climate targets and that Copenhagen Airport has set climate targets. Both SAS and Copenhagen Airport have an objective of climate neutrality in 2050. Much of this is also about research. So I fully understand that you can sit there and say that we need a quick solution. We want to go into these debates and just so that there is no doubt about it: I do not exclude that a European fuel tax can be part of an overall solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142124	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142126	Well, of course, for good reasons, I would like to comment on this when the Prime Minister just mentions the flights of the Members of the Alternative Parliament. Yeah, we've been flying, yeah, we're flying less. I think we should all. I think every single one of us in here is thinking about when we're going to fly and when we're not going to fly. At any rate, it is an important question to ask oneself. But it also requires structural changes, and that is why it is so good that some European countries are taking the lead, and then there are apparently some countries that are a little stuck in the brakes, at least in this area, and Denmark is doing so. The Prime Minister can't get around that. The government has said that we do not want to be involved in creating a European aviation tax in this area, and I think that is really, really a pity. Our members have also followed the National Assembly of the Left and were really happy to hear this suggestion from Morten Løkkegaard that climate and environment should help set the framework for our economic priorities. The question from Members today is: if you have those ambitions at EU level, why is it not being implemented today in Denmark? Why do we not ensure that climate and environment are a framework for the legislation we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142242	The big difference is, of course, to go all the way into the serious answer, and I also tried to say in my opening remarks that we are actually and I know it bothers those who think that they have patented the color that they have a fairly broad consensus in Denmark. The picture that's drawn that we're not doing anything isn't true. We have almost quadrupled the green current since I became Minister for the first time. We are taking global initiatives, we are being elected by the UN because we can do what we can. If you're gonna solve these problems, you're gonna have to go to Europe. By 2030, all our power is green, by 2050, our entire energy is green, just south of the border they use lignite and coal. That is why it has to be lifted. I repeat: I do not rule out the possibility that a pan-European fuel tax may be part of a solution, but it must be a thought-out solution, in which the rest of the world is also thought-in and some loopholes closed. There's a job going on in the UN, I'm familiar with a deadline in 2021, about planes and transport and fuel. That's where the huge potential would lie. It is also about structural changes, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk suggests, in other words, how to get a European rail system up and running when we have to look into multiannual budgets, so that there really are some alternatives to air traffic. So what I might just arrest is the fact that there will be a quick one, that is, a levy on beef, with a fingertips. I don't have to criticize the fact that people from the Alternative are flying, because I fly myself too. It was also said with a smile on its face, and it was actually just to say that we also have another consideration. We want to ensure that our business community can fly at a good and reasonable price and that citizens can do so, and that things need to be balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142440	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142445	It seems almost as if the Prime Minister has not been happy, but it is good that we bother him with a little more questions here. I will continue a little on the same street, because I noticed at the beginning that the Prime Minister is pleased with the energy agreement and with the other results that have been achieved. But when it came to a very crucial part of the ambition to become a country that net emits zero CO2 It became reasonable, I think, referred to Arla, who has set an ambition to reduce their CO2 kg of milk by 30%. In 2030, and Danish Crown, who has set an ambition to halve their CO2 and then there is the government. When we proposed setting targets on how to reduce agricultural CO2 we proposed taking out farmland to a large extent, vulnerable low-level soils, and then we heard the government's climate minister say: No, no, because we have no answer to what we should do about agriculture. And I quote from the debate: 'The only way to do that is basically to shoot the animals. ▪ Now I do not think that Danish Crown as such is deterred by the thought of killing the animals. I guess they kind of make a living on it. But the point is, in a crucial area, the government is unanswered. You're craving a business that leads the way. We are happy and happy when there are press meetings, and I understand that, because there is reason to support it. However, the question is whether we could not catch the ball and get the government started and perhaps find solutions such as: what Agriculture & Food proposed together with the Danish Nature Conservation Association, namely to take out these vulnerable low bottom soils. That is why my question is this: does the government have any objective whatsoever to reduce the CO2 emissions of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142656	We're on it. We have increased funding for research. We have in the drought package we made last year and Mr. Morten Østergaard must look somewhere else if he thinks that the level of ambition should have been higher, because we would have liked to have made a more ambitious drought package • set aside resources for land conversion. We have taken this joint initiative from the Danish Nature Conservation Association and Agriculture & Food neatly and offensively down. We have thus indicated that the ideas behind it are, on the one hand, to create more flexibility for the soils with the big Skip courage, so on the other hand, to take out the low-lying soils that have the bad Skip and where the environmental impact is greater. Then the resources must be found. I would just remind you that last year, when we were discussing the conditions of agriculture on top of the drought, it was said on the left that we should not spend a penny of the room for manoeuvre on this. I mean, I do not exclude that we also need to look at the room for manoeuvre in the future if we are to find the resources that, for example, are to be found. can support this restructuring in Danish agriculture. I'm kind of open to that. The more far-reaching proposals to halve the Danish pig population are not Enhedslisten who has such a thought? And when we don't, it's because things have to be seen in a whole. We have an agricultural industry that probably supports 160,000 jobs in Denmark, and it is throughout the food chain from primary agriculture and all the way up and also into our research-heavy companies. We have one of those farms around the world that have the softest CO2 We have an export of agro-machines that are also environmentally friendly, so you can dose the addition of chemicals and everything else environmentally friendly, because we have a viable agriculture. That is why we need to insist on finding the balance between having a green ambition and ensuring that we also have viable and competitive agriculture. That's also why the right way to do this is a partnership with the industry. That is why I brought these things forward today, including the partnership that we ourselves have entered into with Agriculture & Food and Organic Landsforening.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142938	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312142940	I'm not the one who says the government doesn't have a solution. After all, it is the climate minister who says that it can only be solved by shooting the animals. And that's a repeated sentence. The other day, I think it was, the answer was also: we have energy solutions, we have electric cars in transport, but in relation to agriculture, the government does not know what to do. And then I'm just saying, maybe it was worth reading about what it is that is being written and talked about around and doing something real about it. And my question was not whether today the Prime Minister just had some solutions that had been taken and put with him. My question was whether the government had an ambition that could only approximately match what is now presented by two of the country's largest players in food production who have set themselves offensive targets. Although all that the Prime Minister said about Danish food production is true, they have nevertheless said: we are ahead and we want to go further because we believe that this is the way forward. My question is: Can the Prime Minister mention what the Government's ambition is to reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143040	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143043	What a grumpy mood you're in here. I'm embracing this ambition. And when they have that ambition out there in the sector, it is probably also because they believe that it can be fulfilled in a way that still retains its competitiveness, so that you deliver your contribution to Denmark in terms of jobs and prosperity. I believe that too, and that is why we must do it wisely. And the wise way is not to say that we are now halving the Danish pig production and thus the contribution from exports, or that we are now taking off one third of all Danish farmland. The wise way is to work with the industry. And yes, it is true that if you want the methane gas from our cows to be killed, the easiest way to do that is to make sure you have no cows. But that's not the way to go. That's why it's a viable path, among other things. research. And what's going on out there right now, and I'm not gonna make myself a big expert here... that you also start catching up on research results, so, for example. can make feed compositions that make these cattle emit less methane than they used to. That is the right contribution to the environment. And besides that it is a real contribution to the Danish environment and the 0.1 per cent. And that's why we have to find this balance where we're gonna keep a competitive agriculture alive and take this environmental aspect.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143212	Thank you. It's the last round. Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143215	Thank you. It did not sound as if it were today that the government would announce an ambition to reduce agricultural CO2 I note that when money was to be found for a refugee island in Stege Bay, 759 million were found. kr. For that. One could have selected very vulnerable agricultural land for the one-off allocation if one had wanted to prioritize it. But there was something else very busy when you were meeting with Mr. Thompson. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. That is where I would like to end, because before, there was an exchange, which I was a little stunned about, between the Prime Minister and Mr. President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who was very concerned that youth education institutions in the whole country will be shipwrecked in the coming years as a result of developments. What struck me was that after four financial laws have now been drawn up, cutting down on all education in Denmark every year and planning it, as far as the eye can see, it did not occur to any of the gentlemen that it might be for this reason that there was a risk for these institutions. I think that without having to speak on behalf of others other than my own, if there was an act from the government to cancel the education savings from the next school year, in other words in the middle of 2019, it would get a smooth run through the Finance Committee, and then we were in the process of ensuring education throughout Denmark. It's just an offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143324	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143325	Well, thank you for the offer. Anyway, my money's gotta be in line with Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard, who is now taunting us for taking care of rejected asylum seekers and wants to spend the money on something else, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen is practically applauding. I know that Mrs Mette Frederiksen has helped us to take this initiative. So that money is kind of spent on taking care of the fact that we have some rejected asylum seekers that we can't just have to roam around in this society. And now, sir... Morten Østergaard stands up and looks up to the fact that that money can be spent on the green area. I mean, things have to be together. I think, sir. Morten Østergaard, that if things really work out as I might fear, then the greatness will go off that project, because the money sure is solved. Let me take the re-priority contribution. I just remind you that government, sir. Morten Østergaard himself was a member of, left a Denmark at the edge of EU budget rules. Things weren't connected, you were over the edge about those 0.5%. If there were to be a chance to prioritise cancer treatment, police and other things, we would have to re-prioritize. And some of the things we've been using this re-priority for, among other things, are... to promote this decentralized training offer. When we have been able to create educational satellites and training stations in Denmark, it is because we have had the resources that come from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143439	Then we'll thank the Prime Minister. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143445	I'm the last one. I hope the Prime Minister's good mood persists. But I don't know if the PM was watching TV last night either. Here you could therefore see a documentary, to which Mrs Pernille Skipper also referred in her question, about the conditions in Danish kindergartens and crèches. We meet lots of beautiful children, lots of talented educators, but we are also confronted with a stressful everyday life. I was touched, I was also worried, because we see children who need a little extra care but who meet with a daily life where it is not possible to give. We meet a manager of a day care institution who resigns because she believes that it no longer works properly, as everyday life has developed. She's actually starting to cry. It's just not good enough. Together with BUPL, Danmarks Radio has conducted a study with over 1,000 educators. More than half of them answer that they still do not have time to give the children sufficient presence or care. That, of course, has a reason. Number of adults per year Today, children are historically low. Calculated from the Statistics of Denmark's norms statistics, which I heard the Prime Minister tried to turn around a little, then approx. 4,800 people to meet what the educators think is a minimum to make a safe everyday life work. The Prime Minister's own Minister for Children says that she generally believes that it is good in the Danish day institutions. Therefore, I would like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment and I heard what the Prime Minister said to Mrs Pernille Skipper. I would like the Prime Minister to reflect a little on whether it is good enough when more than half of the 1,000 educators who have been asked in this study answer that they do not have time daily or several times a week to give the children out in the country's institutions enough presence and care.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143640	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143643	I didn't watch TV last night, I'm sorry. That's never good enough. That is, in fact, my approach to any question you might ask, even though I am trying to keep my spirits high. But I'm not gonna go with that black picture. When you ask the parents, when you ask the children, when you look at the figures, i.e. the average figures, for where the level of standards is, I do not agree with that black picture. But there are black spots, which is why it is never good enough. Neither was it when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself was a minister. It never happened with these minimum ratings. That was before you came into government, that is, up to 2011. I remember that. It was then both the SF and the Social Democratic Party that brought it. There were no limits to rights, norms and minimum requirements and all sorts of things. Then you came into government, and there was no virtue. There was no such thing happening in earnest until the month of May, I think it was; it was just before you pressed the election button, and then you pulled out some suggestion that never happened. So Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr did not succeed in putting everything through. Yeah, there are challenges. That's one of them. That's why we've done the 1,000-day program. I haven't seen that broadcast, but it also cuts my heart every time I see kids who don't get the start in life they should have. That is why I also welcome the policy we are pursuing. I am delighted, for example. that there are 40,000 more children in Denmark who now experience that they can roll out of bed in the morning, and then they can look at some parents who go to work and take education rather than be on cash benefits. There are 61,400 children whose parents have been moved out of cash care since I became prime minister. I think that is the greatest social progress one can think of at all, and that is to give those children a much better backlash. But that's never good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143841	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143843	One of the things that makes it possible for these over 60,000 more parents to go to work safely is that in Denmark you know that when you deliver your child in day care, you can be safe and be at your workplace. It is therefore also worrying that if we look at the figures of Denmark's Statistics, to which the Prime Minister referred just now, we can see that there are 4,800 educators missing out there in order to really live up to what is equivalent to minimum standards. If the Prime Minister now goes down in the numbers and says that this is equivalent to one adult to three children in crèches and one adult to six in kindergarten, then that is not correct. Then it is because the Prime Minister allows himself to include the leaders, those who are on maternity leave, those who are sick, and the temporary workers can then count twice. That's how you cheat on statistics. I know that the Prime Minister knows, because the Prime Minister was also former Minister of Finance. So economics is kind of something you can play with. But I think we should be honest about the numbers. There's 4,800 teachers missing out there. When we sat in government we delivered the very first Finance Act, the Finance Act for So the thing about throwing ourselves in the head that we didn't deliver in the field of children is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143954	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312143956	But it is true that 0.5 billion came. kr. That's a lot of money too, isn't it? It's gonna push this a lot. I'm not cheating on any numbers. I'm not cheating on any numbers. It is the case that there are 3.1 children in the nursery age per year. adult and 6.2 in what might be called nursery school age, from 3 years to school start. Then it is true that these are the people we pay each other's money to solve that task. That is why there are many places in which action must be taken. Well, when you have what you call face-to-face time in a terrible word at what? If the working time we have in our day care centres, which are used with children, then it is also a place to go. When we see that in some municipalities, rather than other municipalities, there is a massive absence of sick people, it is also a place we need to address. I know there's gonna be parliamentary elections and everyone has to pull checks out and stuff like that. I just have to insist that this is about something other than money. I don't know if I wrote out that check today, where you'd just find those 4,000 educators. Another day, it's a thousand nurses. In the second half of 2018 alone, there were more than 900 unsuccessful recruitments of nurses. After all, we are in the process of eliminating unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144122	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144123	Apparently, the Prime Minister feels a little creative about numbers. Peace be to it. The point is that, according to Statistics Denmark, there are 4,800 educators, adults out there. I think it's cheating when the Prime Minister says we can count those on maternity leave. Well, then you're not in kindergarten. And leaders who have no contact with the children are also counting the Prime Minister. But peace be to it. In any case, it is clear that this is not a priority for the government. Then I'd like to ask you about this with consent. Because I hear the Minister of Justice is ready. That's what the Minister of Justice said on International Women's Day in Vega. The Minister for Gender Equality is ready. The Prime Minister then says he's just referring to the Criminal Code Council. After all, the Criminal Code Council produced a report in the past four years ago. On the question of consent law, the Prime Minister can just look to Ukraine, Belgium, Germany, Sweden, UK, Cyprus, Luxembourg, Iceland. If it's hard, you can just translate from Icelandic to Danish. Icelandic legislation is very similar to Danish. How long will the Prime Minister estimate that it will take for us to have consent laws in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144240	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144242	Oh, my God. I can't believe this. Frankly, I take this a little too seriously for me to think that the right way to make a new Danish penal code is by making copy-paste of Ukraine and then just do some Google Translate, and then we put a Ukrainian provision into Danish law... or by Iceland for that matter. Well, hello, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr himself has been Minister. Let's take this seriously. I am sorry if you cannot build a conflict with me because my Minister for Justice has said what he has said and because my Minister for Gender Equality has said what she has said and because I have repeated this here today that sex must be based on volunteering. Yes, read it as consent. This must be the case and we must make a criminal law which better reflects it in its words and comments. That's what we're gonna do. So we agree that the conflict has been called off. That's nice. Then we have mutual consent here that we should do so, that is to say, look at the penal code. Then I just think that the responsible way to do it, when we have to take all the considerations into account, I had an excellent exchange of words with Mrs Pernille Skipper about the thing about when it slips over and being reversed the burden of proof... is to ask insightful people to do good preparatory work so that we get quality in legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144403	Thank you, Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144406	Today there are the following reviews: Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Pelle Dragsted (EL), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Trine Torp (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a centre for the development of democracy and citizen involvement). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on extended interpretation fee) and motion for a resolution No. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter rules for obtaining permanent residence permits). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the European Convention on Human Rights). Jeppe Jakobsen (DF) and others: Haste query no. F 40 (How will the government, in the light of the VIVE • National Research and Analysis Centre for Welfare's coverage of the deterioration of home care by municipalities ensure and strengthen the local authorities that care for the elderly is given adequate priority in the country's municipalities?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Danish Parliament Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF) have informed me that they want to take back the following suggestions: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the legal basis for municipalities for the establishment of free WiFi for the benefit of citizens and business. 119). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. We are about to vote, but it will take just a few minutes before we can vote because we have a deadline from the press on the A until we can vote. So it will be just a few minutes before we start the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144813	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144834	Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312144854	Thank you. The other day I agreed with the Secretary of State, and I've been thinking about that a lot since then. That could be a good feeling. But then I read his reply to me when we first dealt with this proposal the other morning at 9 a.m. 10.54. He said at the time: let me start by stating that the government agrees with the political objective behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, namely that Israel suspends its settlement policy. He then gives it a proper head at the end of that section, namely when he says: "It is the government's unequivocal attitude and policy that settlements are illegal under international law. The position is shared by a broad majority here in the Folketing. We do not recognise the settlements as part of Israel's territory. It is Danish and EU policy that Israel must cease its settlement policy because the settlements are illegal and because they undermine the possibilities of a two-state solution. The two rounds I was very, very much in agreement with the Minister, and I really had hoped that he would say: and that is why we are now going to give it a head and act instead of just talking. Unfortunately, he did not, because he said that we should not prevent the flow of goods from Israel. That may be an opinion, but that was not what was under discussion. It was the flow of goods from the West Bank Hold on to it. The government sent the Secretary of State to take this debate, not sent the Trade Minister. And then he said: there is nothing we can do, by the way, because the European Union has exclusive rights to trade policy. And I just thought we were talking foreign policy at the time, because that and talking about the West Bank and Israel's occupation of the West Bank is a foreign policy issue. This will probably also mean a stop to goods from the West Bank, a foreign policy issue which we can discuss further, but I was somewhat surprised. He then says (First Vice-President, Minister for Foreign Affairs) the following sentence later. Sorry, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs says it is only a year since the Danish Parliament, with the government's approval, adopted V 30. The proposal for adoption states with seven inch nails that Denmark makes a clear distinction between the territory of Israel and the occupied territories in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2334. This distinction comes into practice, among other things. The EU and Denmark are operating a territorial clause in order to prevent settlements from being covered by agreements with Israel. This is what the Foreign Minister says in one sentence, and then he goes straight over and says: yes, it means in concrete terms that the agreement with Israel must include a clause that cannot be applied in areas occupied by Israel. So where are we? Then we'll talk about goods from something that isn't Israel. Denmark and the European Union have a good relationship with Israel, and Israel's goods will do well to trade in 'no', we would like to trade in goods from the West Bank anyway. In other words, the Minister cannot really figure out what he is going to think. He thinks it's a territory outside of Israel and that it's a bad thing that Israel has occupied this area. Therefore, I cannot find out what the territorial clause means when the goods enter the EU and Denmark via Israel anyway and that we should not do anything about it. It would never have happened if we were to think about the sanctions we have imposed, for example. Russia. It's quite, quite strange. The reason I raised this question was that another European Parliament, Ireland, is working on a proposal to say no to West Bank goods. They have come a long way with a bill at the moment, and they are not afraid of the EU's sanctions, and the EU says: Hey, you must not interfere in trade policy. This has not been discussed at all in Ireland. They are afraid that the United States will react to Ireland and put some restrictions on it. That is what their debate is about. That is quite interesting, because the crux of the matter is that we can actually act if the West Bank is not part of Israel, because it is Israel on which the Foreign Minister is focusing. So where are we now? Yes, we are in the situation where the Minister and I agree that this is a bad thing. It is actually quite problematic and rather criminal • that Israel has occupied the West Bank and oppresses the Palestinians, thereby undermining the possibilities of a two-state solution. But there is no majority in the government to act. We just have to talk, we have to adopt resolutions, we have to tell the Israelis, but we should not act. I have to conclude and say that then we are almost in the same place again as we have been for at least 40 years. We talk without action and we do not want to help solve the problems; we do not want to take initiatives that can move that agenda. This will legalise the situation as it is, and so we are jointly responsible for ensuring that nothing happens in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict where Israel has occupied a piece of land that does not belong to the Israelis. It's quite strange. We are perhaps one of the countries closest to Israel, which could thus say with great force: we do not want the goods from the West Bank in. We can concentrate on those goods and then say that these are the ones we do not want in, and thus hit Israel in that area. I don't understand government policy in this area. It is not because I do not understand the words, because they are very, very much in line with what I mean, but why should we not act, Mr President? Minister? Why do we just have to talk? I would like to recommend to all of you that we vote in favour of our proposal so that we can move one step further. I do not believe two minutes that the European Union could stop us. And if they could, they must be clearly informed that this is foreign policy and that it is the Danish Parliament that decides Denmark's foreign policy. I would therefore urge you to vote in favour of our quite excellent proposal, and I would particularly like to appeal to the SF to do the same. I can see that they have taken the initiative to abstain on this matter. I think we have to try to gather our strength and then vote in favour and act in this situation, whether or not the European Union wants to interfere in it and call it a trade policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145522	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145530	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 16 (EL and ALT and 1 V (by mistake)), 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted in favour and against 9 (RV and SF). That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145611	We're just gonna have a little quiet over there by that side over here. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, we need to get some rest. Thank you. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145634	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 42 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 65 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145704	Does anyone wish to speak? The rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution does so, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312145722	Thank you. When we are about to vote, the government will be in a minority on an important issue, namely whether there should be a referendum if a majority in the Folketing would want to join Denmark's EU banking union. It is far from every day that a government is brought into the minority, and it is very rare that this happens on a matter of Denmark's EU policy. However, the Socialist President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, said clearly to the Danes at the Danish Parliament's major public hearing on 4 November when she was asked by the television host whether the banking union should be sent to a referendum: yes, it should. Yes, it has to be the answer to the Danish people from the Socialist President. And I guess it should be in place. That is why we have also put forward this proposal from the Enhedslisten that a referendum should be held if a majority in the Folketing would want to join Denmark's EU banking union. We did so on the part of the Enhedslisten to give the Social Democratic Party the opportunity to implement the policy promised by the Social Democratic President to the Danes her party. It just hasn't turned out to be right. During both the first reading and the report, the Social Democratic Party has turned 180 degrees and has refused to vote in favour of a referendum. The Social Democratic policy is obviously to say one to the people and then vote quite differently in the Assembly. There is a word for it, and it is electoral deception. As you know, we must refrain from doing so, and I would therefore recommend that the Social Democratic Party vote, as Mrs Mette Frederiksen replied in the party leader's debate on 4 November, when you are asked in a moment whether the banking union is going to referendum yes or no? First Vice-President I have to say that there are a great many discussions going on in the Chamber at the moment, and we simply need to reduce the noise level. Excuse me, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen). My appeal must then be repeated to the Social Democratic Party. When you are about to vote, you are basically asked exactly the same question as Mrs Mette Frederiksen was asked in the party leader's debate on 4 November, which the Folketing arranged to highlight what the parties think about EU issues when the banking union was up for discussion, namely: Should the banking union be in a referendum? Yes, it must, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen replied. In that case, the green button will have to be voted and pressed shortly when the vote starts. I would urge the Social Democrats to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150028	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150033	Thank you. I hope that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen will go home and revisit television from the Folketing from today. I hope he will see his own speech, and I hope he will be able to see exactly how irresponsible and polemical he himself appears right now. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen mentions exactly what the resolution is about. This is a form of gun democracy, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen will introduce that it is impossible to express anything in a debate without it being tabled as a motion for a resolution the next day. In addition, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen that the motion for a resolution is, should a majority of the parties of the Folketing wish Denmark to join the banking union. The position of social democracy is so clear: we are not yet convinced either that it is a good idea to join the banking union as it is now, or that we have taken a decision before we have seen the statement that the government is preparing, because the Social Democracy differs from the Enhedslisten at the point where Enhedslisten wants us to have a referendum tomorrow, if one could be allowed, on Denmark's membership of the European Union without knowing what is hiding on the other side. This is not how we work in the Social Democratic Party, so there is nothing surprising in our position in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150133	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150135	So that it should be irresponsible and polemical to expect the parties of the Folketing to vote the same as they are saying they will do to the Danish people, is above my understanding it is completely above my understanding. In other words, if you stand and say to the Danish people, when you are the chairman of the Social Democrats, that yes, we must have a referendum, then you should not vote 'no' when it comes to the Assembly. I think there are a lot of Danes who get really tired of politicians when this is the way it works. We can do something about that in the Social Democratic Party. One can only vote, as the President said, on 4 November last year, just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150221	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150223	I think most of all that the Danes out there are tired of bullshit in here and at all. We in the Social Democratic Party do not commit ourselves to all kinds of referendums on issues where we do not yet know the answer to what we would recommend to the electorate, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's party right now would not know what to recommend to the voters to vote if they had the referendum on Danish membership of the European Union that they otherwise request. That is not how we work in the Social Democratic Party. It may well be that we should have a referendum on Danish membership of the banking union if we end up thinking that it is a good idea for us to join the banking union, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150301	Thank you. Then there is an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150304	Mrs Mette Frederiksen said quite clearly on 4 November: in the social democracy we did not decide whether to join the banking union or not, but in relation to the process I believe there should be a referendum. The host then asked whether there should be a referendum, and the answer was: yes, there must be. That is what we are discussing today. It's not bullshit. It is a concrete motion for a resolution that can implement what the Social Democratic President said and promised the Danes, namely that there must be a referendum if there is to be a majority in the Folketing wishing Denmark to join the EU's banking union. And it is even a proposal that will be a majority in favour if the Social Democratic Party insists on doing what the President stood and said to the Danes on 4 November. There will be a majority in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150349	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150358	Thank you. I can't believe that the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, now can describe it as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's chairman has said as bullshit and squabbling. That's what you can understand, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen thinks about Mrs Mette Frederiksen's promise to the Danish people. On 4 November 2018, the European Committee held a public hearing in Odense about the European Union, and on that occasion the party leaders met for a debate on Denmark's relationship with the European Union. In the debate, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, was asked whether the Danes should have a referendum on the EU's banking union. Yes, Mrs Mette Frederiksen replied, I think so. And it wasn't a finch that flew off its forehead, because it could have been. Well, if it were a finch that flew off Mrs Mette Frederiksen's head, Mrs Mette Frederiksen could have just said: unfortunately, I have come to say something I do not really mean; I was not so well in the material, so I am sorry; it was a mistake. However, in the ensuing Question Time in the Folketing, Mrs Mette Frederiksen actually stated that with a referendum on the banking union it was now the official position of the Social Democratic Party. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said: I feel that if we go down the path of banking union, then I would say that the most natural thing is to ask the Danes. It is also, of course, in the light of the fact that we had a vote on the reservation in the area of justice, to which the Danes said no. That is what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said in the Chamber. The party's rapporteur, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, told Børsen on 21 November that a referendum on the banking union should then be held by the Danes, because it is important to have popular legitimacy behind the decision-making process. I fully agree with that, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says here. It is important to have popular legitimacy behind such a decision; a decision that means that we leave it to the ECB to decide whether or not to save a major Danish financial institution; a decision that means that Danish bank customers must jointly cover losses for bank customers in Italy, Greece and Spain; a decision that challenges Danish mortgage. Great was my amazement, too, when Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen indicated at the first reading of this resolution that the Social Democratic Party would not support the proposal, so it would not support what Mrs Mette Frederiksen had promised the Danes on 4 November. So the Social Democratic Party had changed its attitude again. On 29 October, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen to the Stock Exchange that the Social Democracy was against a vote, but on 4 November the Social Democracy was then in favour of a vote, and now, on 12 March, the Social Democracy is again against a referendum. And this morning you could hear Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen said in Radio24syv that the Social Democratic Party will take a position on the matter in the autumn, that is, after the parliamentary elections and after the European Parliament elections, that is, at a time when there are years and days when the Danes are going to vote again. So you just have to ask the question: can you even trust the Social Democratic Party? Is it electoral deception that is going on? Is it such an attempt to create conscious confusion among the electorate? What is Social Democracy doing? At any rate, I think it is bad for the electorate and the people's regime, and I do not think it is right to take the voters by their noses, as the Social Democrats do here. And I do not understand how a clear statement by the President of the Social Democratic Party about a 'yes' to a referendum could end with a 'no' to a referendum today in this Parliament. Can we not just add value to what the chairman of the Social Democratic Party says in a live television debate? Is it just worthless? Can you just say anything and then seem to retreat on what follows? And if that is the case, the Danes can only acknowledge that if not even a clear promise from the Social Democrat President is to be trusted, one cannot trust the Social Democracy. If so, it will not be the first time. Social democracy has a long list of promises in the bag, and if Mrs Mette Frederiksen wants to take over the baton of her predecessor, Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, I will just say good pleasure, but I say to the electorate: do not go back to fucking. And right now, the Social Democrats have once again exposed themselves as exactly that, namely a phony.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312150908	Actually, I don't think it's that hard to understand, because Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says this very clearly and quotes Mrs Mette Frederiksen as saying that if we go down the path of joining the banking union, then she thinks there should be a referendum. But Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen and the motion for a resolution anticipate the decision that we will go down that path and that we will be in the banking union, because we have not yet taken a position on whether we think it is a good idea for Denmark to join the banking union, both because we lack knowledge we expect that with the government statement which is on the way and also, to be quite honest, because we in the Social Democratic Party simply have not yet taken a position on whether we think it is a good idea. So Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth the course of events by asking us to vote in favour of a resolution which commits a referendum, on the basis that we should have already said that we are joining the banking union when we have not even done our job yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151001	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151002	There are no Danes who understand a honk of what it is, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen has just said, and there is a reason for this, and that is that it is incomprehensible. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says this morning in Radio24syv that he does not even know whether the Social Democratic Party is actually in favour of a referendum or not, and I understand that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsens says, for it would only have confused things even more if Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen had said this morning that the Social Democratic Party was still in favour of a referendum, while here in Parliament he says that it will not vote in favour of a referendum on the banking union. In other words, there is total confusion on the top floor of the Social Democratic Party on this issue, and I think that is disgraceful. I think we owe the Danes an answer as to whether we are in favour of that referendum or whether we do not support it, and that answer could be given by Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen certainly doesn't give this morning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151047	Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151048	If sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth would like to quote me, so I think he should do it properly, because what I replied on the radio this morning, and as I have quite clearly stated here, is that we in the Social Democratic Party have not yet made up our minds whether we think it is a good idea for Denmark to join the banking union. But I could also put a question to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth: When should we have it seen with the eyes of the Danish People's Party • long-awaited vote on Denmark's membership of the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151118	Well, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen speaks out again, and that is because Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen notes that in four months the Social Democratic Party has had three different views on the question of whether or not to hold a referendum. I was so naive that I expected that when the President of the party had spoken out in favour of a referendum, it was something that could be expected, but I understand that it is to be expected that it is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, who organizes what the Social Democratic attitude on this issue is. I do not understand that, but I have to say that this is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151149	We thank the rapporteur. No one else has wanted to speak, and that is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151159	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 37 (DF, EL and ALT), against 68 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151309	We shall vote on the final adoption of the proposal and the vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151358	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151428	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151500	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151523	Thank you. Even if you can get a little bit depressed when you see that the whole map up there turns red and most just votes no, I still feel like saying two things. First of all, I have the deepest respect for the many people who have worked hard and really made a fantastic effort for this citizens' proposal and, every day at all, are working hard to save lives in a way that is actually going to make the upcoming election campaign look like a bathing holiday. Secondly, I know that although most dots up there will soon turn red, several of you are on the move, and that is why I think that when we meet again in 10 years and discuss this, it will be perfectly natural that you are in favour of automatic organ donation, and then you will ask yourself why in the world it took so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151616	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151623	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 5 (RV), against 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 4 (SF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151659	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151714	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and RV)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151723	Then it is the debate on the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151730	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151802	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312151813	Thank you. L 111 is symbol legislation of the worst drawer. It is foreign policy disguised as health policy. Overall, the draft law basically violates the principle of equal and free access to emergency hospital care in Denmark, as the regions are required to collect payments from citizens who are not registered with the CPR register or are from the Faroe Islands, Greenland or EU countries. So far, the regions have been able to collect, but now they are being imposed on them. The Enhedslisten supports the fact that the regions charge for patients who have insurance covering the treatment. As I said, that possibility already exists today. However, Enhedslisten considers it unreasonable that persons from outside the EU who are not covered by insurance may be faced with a quite significant economic requirement for treatment in Denmark. The proposal is also a fundamental breach of the principle that there should be no economy between patients and treats by emergency treatment. The Enhedslisten wishes to maintain that the patient should receive the most optimal health care and that it should not be economic considerations or considerations that determine this. Furthermore, it is not certain that the patient can be informed prior to the start of treatment of the expected cost of the treatment and, as the Minister's reply shows, the cost of the same treatment may vary considerably. In the view of the Enhedslisten, this leaves the patient with a completely unclear picture of the financial requirements that may subsequently be met by him. Normally, it will be necessary to have a prior overview of the economic consequences that a commitment might entail. However, this is not the case here, leaving the risk that the amount may vary depending on the place of treatment, treatment, complexity, etc., which ultimately leads to a lack of transparency and ambiguity as to the amount of the self-payment and the risk that the price of the same treatment may vary from region to region. The unit list also fears that opacity and ambiguity may prevent patients from seeking timely medical treatment because of the risk of being met by an unknown payment claim. Enhedslisten believes that Denmark as a society has a task and an obligation to help everyone who needs treatment. Then the Minister says · and I quote: If the patient does not wish to receive treatment, the patient may refrain from seeking treatment, as health care is an offer to the patient. However, this may indeed mean that there may be patients who refrain from seeking timely medical care. Fortunately, because of Denmark's contractual obligations, a number of patient groups have managed to be excluded from the proposal, including children and pregnant women, but there is still a group of citizens who may have to make economic considerations before an emergency treatment is started. With the proposal, citizens who have been brought together in Denmark but have not yet been registered in the population register will not be exempted from self-payment during that process period. The proposal therefore requires the family member concerned to bear the risk during the process period until registration in the CPR register has taken place. Enhedslisten finds this both unreasonable and incomprehensible. In addition, we in the Enhedslisten are surprised that the government is not prepared to exempt Danes, for example. pensioners, workers or students who, for some reason, reside in a non-EU country, from the requirement of self-payment. The Enhedslisten notes that these are people who for a number of years have typically paid withholding tax in Denmark and thus helped to maintain the Danish health and welfare society. In the Enhedslisten we find it extremely inappropriate, incomprehensible and regrettable that these people can be met by a claim for self-payment for treatment during their holidays in their country of origin. We must note, however, that the government unfortunately did not wish to change the above. That is why the Enhedslisten has tabled some amendments to this effect and we hope that the government, the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party will reconsider their position on these amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152226	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152233	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 2, where elected and elected by the same minorities, shall cease to exist. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of minorities (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, SF and RV). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152448	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152459	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of ALT and RV)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA, KF and 1 RV (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 85 votes (S, DF, V, LA, KF and 1 RV (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 6, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT and RV)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152639	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152701	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the legislative proposal into two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The draft law referred to in A is then voted on [Proposal for a law amending the law on primary education, the law on institutions of general secondary education and general adult education, etc.]. and law on vocational training institutions (consistent action against poorly performing primary and secondary schools)): requested vote on Amendment No. 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on primary schools, the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on social services and the law on child and youth benefits (Optional language tests in vulnerable residential areas and increased parental responsibility through the possibility of stopping children's checks, etc.].PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), on Amendment No 5, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats). 6-8, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of ALT), on Amendment No. 9, adopted by the Committee, or on Amendment No 9, adopted by the Committee. 10, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of ALT)? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152801	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152826	The Minister for Taxation has announced that he wishes to accept Amendment No. 10 remaining in the report. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? As this is not the case, the amendment has lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312152904	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL and SF), stating that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 47 (S, EL, RV and SF), against 61 (DF, V, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 0. Thus, the division of the bill has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 2-4 to the undivided bill lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 6, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 12 and 16 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7-9, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF)? They are adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 13 and 17 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 11, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF)? It's agreed. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 14 and 15 outside the report by the tax minister as adopted. They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153052	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153105	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (EL, ALT and SF), that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The division of the draft law into two parts has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2 of a A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 88 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We're gonna take a little break before we start first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153259	Then I think there is so much quiet in the Chamber that we can start the negotiations on Bill No. L 188. The debate is open. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153316	Thank you for that, President. Today, we have a bill that translates the last part of the agreement on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy into an agreement that we concluded in the Social Democracy together with a number of other parties with the government in May 2018. After all, the sharing and platform economy is an area of rapid development. When shared economy works well, we make better use of resources by sharing things instead of owning separate ones, and in this way new business models and new jobs will also emerge. Conversely, shared and platform economic activities also create a number of new challenges that already put pressure on the labour market, tax control and consumer rights. Here, as a society, we must ensure that the new opportunities go hand in hand with proper conditions, especially for employees and consumers, and that there are rules that support a fair market. One of the popular areas where more and more Danes experience shared economy platforms is when you want to rent out your holiday home for a shorter time, while you may be away or something else entirely. Here the challenge has been that the rules have not been clear enough. The bill here must therefore introduce a clear framework and limits for citizens to rent their own full annual residence for holiday and leisure purposes. It has been important for us in the Social Democratic Party to introduce a real ceiling on how many days a year you can rent out your accommodation, among other things. in order to prevent new opportunities from exerting pressure on an already pressured housing market, especially in our large cities, as we have seen in a number of large European cities. We are pleased that we have ended up with an upper limit of a maximum of 70 days rather than a minimum of 90 days, as originally proposed by the government. The limits for the number of rental days are closely linked to the type of reporting one chooses to use as a citizen, in order to support and encourage the use of digital platforms that automatically report rental income to income registered. All of this must be seen as a grip to ensure that we can tax this growing part of the economy more correctly. The proposal is therefore short, that using the citizen a rental agent that automatically reports the rental income to the income register, citizens can rent out for 70 days a year. If, on the other hand, the citizen himself is in charge of renting, the citizen can rent for 30 days a year. The municipalities have the opportunity to raise the limit from 70 days to a maximum of 100 days. A transitional arrangement shall be introduced until the automatic reporting solution for rental agents is ready in January 2021. This means that you can rent out your full-year residence for 70 days a year, regardless of the form of reporting until 31 December 2020. The Minister for Business, which in practice means the Danish Business Administration, must monitor compliance with the limits. The local authorities of the country may voluntarily choose to assist the supervisory authority in carrying out investigations and obtaining actual information, etc. At the same time, the supervisory authority is allowed to issue administrative fines. On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear that we in the Social Democratic Party have listened very, very carefully to a number of the critical consultation responses received. I particularly note the criticism that room rental is not covered by the bill. The challenge here is that it will potentially push the market for rental rooms to, among other things. students. On the other hand, it can open up the possibility of circumventing the rental day limit, since instead of renting out your entire house, you can rent out on a room basis. The second part of the criticism is that the control task will be difficult to lift, including both that the control tools are not sufficient and that control will be better in the municipalities. Both of them I look forward to having a thorough discussion in committee, and I am confident that it is reasonable that we have agreed that monitoring of the rules will be evaluated in a few years' time and that the evaluation of the automatic digital reporting solution will also be included in this. In many ways, it is also a new country that we are entering here when we try to create a proper framework for all parts of that part- and platform economic area. That is why we are also very sensitive to the criticism raised in the hearings. Basically, we support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party and we look forward to a thorough examination of the committee. Finally, on behalf of the Radical Left, I have promised to say that I agree with the comments I have made here, but also with the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153749	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153758	The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here today is, after all, the implementation of the agreement we have made on the platform economy. I believe that the law will have a positive effect when the automatic reporting solution comes into operation. This is the solution to ensure that it is automatically reported to the tax authorities when you rent your accommodation for shorter periods. It will be the case that you can rent your apartment for 30 days a year if you do not want to use one of these platforms that automatically report. On the other hand, if a rental agent is used, it can be increased up to 70 days. That is a high figure, even in our opinion, but it was the compromise that we could reach. In addition, the draft law means that citizens wishing to rent for a shorter period of time no longer need to have the municipality's permission to derogate from a residence obligation at the address. The law is not entirely without challenges according to us in the Danish People's Party. After we had reached the political agreement, the government made an exception to the law, an exception which, for the first time, was not turned against us, which was part of the agreement. Since then, the government has taken the parties to the agreement to the table, and also the Danish People's Party has ended up saying yes to the fact that we will have an evaluation much faster than otherwise had been planned. The reason why we want a faster evaluation is that we can already see the major challenges that come up with the exception that has come in. It's this exception that says that single rooms are exempt from the rule. We see for ourselves a possible barn gate of rentals that goes against the intent of this package that's been made. We therefore hope that in the period between now and the third reading we will be able to get another supplement in place, such as this one. can lead to an obligation to register, so that we can deal with some of this problem. This is certainly something that we in the Danish People's Party will try to see if we can find a solution to. Against this background, I look forward to a dialogue on how we can translate the agreement into the same spirit as it has been concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312153955	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312154004	Thank you for the floor. We are talking a lot and gladly about the shared economy, and that is something we on the Left are looking at very positively. There are many new opportunities, there are wealth of ideas, there are business models being developed, and of course there is also a resource issue in general when it comes to shared economy: instead of all acquiring the same goods and consumer goods, which are mostly unused, it might be more appropriate to borrow and rent each other. One of the areas and one of the concepts that has really been adopted in terms of shared economy is airbnb, where, as the owner of an apartment or a house via a digital platform, you have the opportunity to make a room or the whole apartment or the whole house available to people who want to use it while you do not make use of it yourself. There the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democrats and Radicals have made an agreement on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in parts of the platform economy, because this is a new area that has also challenged applicable legislation and rules. How do you tax a company that is not really resident in Denmark and how do you ensure that the revenues that Danes who rent out are actually registered? This has been a bit of a challenge, and it has taken a long time, but I am really glad that we have both managed to land a broad political agreement, but also to ensure that for those who communicate these platform economies when it comes to housing rental, there is also an automatic reporting to the Danish tax authorities, so that revenue that you earn as a citizen is reported. As the Socialist rapporteur has explained, there is a difference between whether you rent out through a reporting platform economy or whether you rent out yourself, and that is not a concept that is unknown. It is the same thing that applies to holiday rental, where you can rent out at a certain amount if you are in charge of the rental, while you obtain a greater tax credit if you use an agency that reports. In fact, it has proved to be very effective when it comes to curbing black rental and thus creates a quite reasonable incentive to make use of schemes where we are sure that the correct tax will be paid. So we think it is a good agreement that we have achieved, and some good principles, in relation to the possibility of longer rental, if you use intermediaries who pass on the information to the Danish authorities. We will then also be giving local participation, since the municipal council can choose to set a higher limit than these 70 days, i.e. up to 100 days. However, as I said, it is an opportunity for local authorities. It is not a duty, and it is, of course, also in line with respect for the agreement we have concluded, where there should be no doubt that there was a difference of opinion as to how many days it should be possible to rent. And it is the people's regime when it works best: when we can get the ends to reach together and make a broad agreement that ensures a stable framework for an area that can be quite complicated. I think it is important that we ensure that there are clear rules and a well-known framework which means that for people who think they have the courage and the desire to rent out their holiday home for a few weeks a year, where they do not use it themselves, it is easy and straightforward, and that as a customer you can also know that things are under control. So we basically think it is a very good political agreement that is being implemented and that it is a very good legislative proposal. I have promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312154426	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312154434	As has been shown, this bill is, on the one hand, an expiry of the agreement entered into in the Folketing, but, on the other hand, of negotiations between the Ministry and Airbnb, because there has been concern about the rentals that have been made there and the lack of the possibility of recovering tax payments. It can be said that this is an agreement in which Airbnb is rewarded in a way with a certain number of days that people can rent out their accommodation for short-term rentals in, and on the other hand it is expected that Airbnb will forward-lookingly report users' income to the tax administration. As a starting point, Airbnb has been rather reluctant to provide this information to the tax administration, as opposed to many other companies in the platform economy that have actually behaved properly. In principle, we in the Enhedslisten do not like to reward companies for not wanting to cooperate or to be difficult in cooperation. We think that is a rather strange principle that one somehow affirms here. Perhaps we also do not think that there has been enough thorough work to find other ways of securing this tax information, that is to say to see whether there are actually any handles in the international agreements that would allow us to get the same information. It could, for example, be done. As in the case of Uber, to contact the authorities of other countries for information in Uber's case, it was the pirate taxi traffic that has been involved. This has been done in a dialogue with the Dutch authorities in that case, and perhaps it would have been a way to go in relation to Airbnb. It could also be considered, as other countries and cities are considering doing so, whether to grant a licence to those wishing to rent their accommodation to a greater extent, in order to ensure that the information required is provided. So there were other ways to go than this one, if I may say so, the reward of Airbnb for not willingly giving up this information. After all, we are still left with the problem of platform economies. One thing, then, is the taxation of the income generated by the rental of housing; another is the taxation of the company itself. But this is another discussion, which is one of them. has been taken under the auspices of the European Union and is continuing in the OECD at this time. And it will also be exciting to follow, because we have to remember that every time we rent out a room, for example. through Airbnb, there is indeed an income for the individual landlord, but in addition, 15%, I think it is • I don't remember the exact figure in a tax haven, and that money would of course also be nice to get taxed. Then there is another challenge with the proposal here, and this is the 70-day ceiling. It is true, very many days you can rent in, and if it is fully exploited, I think most of us can imagine what it will be like to live in a property where it is almost like Copenhagen Central Station, because there are so many people coming into and out of the rise you live in. There we do not think that the right balance has been found on the Enhedslisten side. We fully agree with what has been said about the shared economy, namely that it is positive that you can rent out your accommodation, and we all enjoy doing so in other countries as well. But this must be done in a way that also takes account of the neighbours, of the town districts in question, of those of us who live here and we must also have proper conditions. So we do not think that the right balance has been struck in this proposal, and that is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312154859	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312154913	Thank you. Dele economy has become incredibly popular, and there are many advantages to it. It can provide better use of resources, more freedom for citizens, the development of new business models, and in several cases it can spare the climate. In the housing sector there is also a great advantage for the tourism industry, but there must be clear rules and there must be a level playing field between the new and established forms, and everyone must pay the rightful tax. Applicable legislation does not take account of this type of activity. When we see a new development in society, it is important that the legislation follows. That is precisely what this draft law wants. That is why the amendments already mentioned by previous rapporteurs have been made and an evaluation has been carried out so that it can be assessed whether the rules comply with the intention or whether changes are needed. This evaluation will take place in 2022. The Liberal Alliance considers this to be a good proposal and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155018	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155022	Thank you. After all, it is wonderful that when you come so late in the process by rapporteurs, you do not have to review the whole proposal again. It has been done so abundantly at this stage, so I will go straight to the positions on this proposal. We are very sceptical about this proposal, because we do not really think that we should regulate in the way we should, precisely because we are keeping single rooms out of total regulation and so on, what the consultation answers point to. This is something that the alternative actually thinks we should look into each other's eyes and look at, even if there is a settlement. I could hear that some of the parties to the conciliation had a bit to do with it. Now there are some very clear consultation answers, so let us now look at them in committee and see if we should go back to this. Because yes, the shared economy is great, and I have enjoyed living, even when I was travelling, in rooms I had rented, or on couchsurfing: on people's sofas. It's amazing that we can do this in new ways. Now I do not know if I am so afraid that it makes too much noise when people go in and out of the rise, but there is at least a fear that prices are rising and that you are pushing what is usually referred to as ordinary people, that is. people with little income, out of the city centers. It is clear that this is one of the major weaknesses. These are some of the problems that have been encountered in cities such as Barcelona, Lisbon and so on. That's what we're going to do about it. We need to get in there and regulate it properly. I actually thought, when I saw the first conciliation that had been made, that it looked very sensible. Then there are just some changes that make us say: Guard in the gun, this is not quite good enough. So I hope that we can discuss it in committee so that we get the right kind of regulation for something that is actually good as long as it takes place in orderly conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak, so that is the Minister for Industry. Minister of Business?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155233	I'm sorry, I didn't realize it was my turn already. Thank you for the comments to the bill, which is part of the government's implementation of a political agreement of May 2018 on better conditions for growth and proper tax payments in the shared and platform economy. Renting your apartment has become attractive and popular. This is good for tourism; it is good for citizens who can increase their income by renting out their homes. It is also important that there are some rules for citizens to rent their own full annual residence for holiday and leisure purposes in situations where the owner or user does not use the accommodation for a shorter period of time. And that's what this bill is about. Since the bill is part of a comprehensive package of legislative proposals to implement the aforementioned political agreement, it is also relevant to pay attention to Bill No. 102 which, together with this bill, strengthens the incentive to rent its dwelling through a third party reporting the income automatically. I should also like to refer to Bill No. 98, which is the Minister of Transport and which, by amending the law on the temporary regulation of housing conditions, reinforces the rules on checks and sanctions concerning the obligation of residence. Together with this bill here, the other two legislative proposals must ensure that the shared economy is well functioning and can be a driving force for growth, innovation and new jobs on good terms. The bill here lays down the rental limits for the citizens' rental of their own full full-year residence for holiday and leisure purposes when they are themselves away or similar for a shorter period. If the bill is adopted, individuals may rent their own full annual residence for either 30 or 70 days a year for holiday and leisure purposes, depending on the type of rental they choose. You can rent out for 30 days if you rent out yourself and you can rent out for 70 days if you use a rental agent. A way of reporting rental revenue needs to be developed, and we expect this to be completed by 1 January 2021. Until then, citizens will be able to rent out for 70 days, regardless of whether rental is done privately or via an intermediary. Municipal councils can raise the limit of 70 days to 100 days a year, and so we have tried to take account of the fact that local authorities in urban communities, local communities, local authorities can decide how much housing rental is desired in their area. Supervision of the rules will be carried out by the Danish Business Authority, which is under my authority in the Ministry of Business, but the municipalities can also voluntarily provide assistance for the supervision. The Danish Business Administration is given the opportunity to issue administrative fines in cases without any evidence. Municipal authorities will be able to obtain and collate information, including from the income register, and will be able to obtain consumption information and carry out checks on citizens if there is a reasonable suspicion that the rules have been infringed. Then we create a works council between the Danish Business Authority and the municipalities, where the challenges may be discussed. It has been agreed that there will be an evaluation of the rules in 2022 and it has been specifically agreed that there will be an evaluation of the rules for room rental in autumn 2019, which includes: The rapporteur for the Danish People's Party also mentioned. I am, of course, pleased that there is a majority behind the draft law, even a relatively large majority. And then we have this challenge with the rooms, and that is why we are evaluating this year, although I must also say that it is a relatively rapid evaluation where there will be a limited basis for experience. But we are very aware of that issue, and we will look at that at the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155655	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155709	The debate is open. Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312155735	Thank you and thank you for the alternative to the motion for a resolution. It is a motion for a resolution on the need for an investigation to be carried out in order to produce an electronic crown, also called an e-krone, which must be completed and submitted to the Folketing by 1 October 2020. The exploration work should illustrate how an e-krone under the auspices of the National Bank can be designed and implemented. The investigation will specifically highlight the possibility of offering an e-money deposit account in the National Bank to citizens and companies as an alternative to a deposit account in a private bank. The Government considers that it is not an idea to allow individuals and companies to have a deposit account in the National Bank, thus allowing the National Bank to compete with private banks and in practice act as a government bank for citizens. It is, after all, a completely different role from that of the National Bank today. There are several reasons why the government thinks this is a bad idea. The National Bank has already carried out a thorough analysis of e-kroner. The investigation work proposed is therefore largely already being done. The analysis by the National Bank shows, among other things, that the introduction of e-kroner could create a number of challenges in relation to financial stability, since the setup proposed here by the Alternative could allow a so-called bank run, where deposits are moved from the banks to the National Bank in a crisis situation. The point is that if citizens have the opportunity to have their money in a private bank and the opportunity to have their money in the National Bank, there will be a risk that, if there is some uncertainty, they will move to the National Bank and thus we will have such a bank run, which may have very major consequences for the Danish economy. Consumers are already entitled to a deposit account in a private bank, which, combined with the deposit guarantee scheme, effectively makes it risk-free for consumers and companies to place deposits in private banks up to DKK 750,000. The proposal will in fact involve the establishment of a state bank which can serve as an alternative to private and commercial banks. The Government considers that the State should not intervene in private markets unless there are particular circumstances justifying it. The payment market in Denmark is well functioning. In addition to cash, there are a number of digital payment solutions offered by private operators, and there is no assessment of any particular market situation that favours State intervention. As a starting point, we think that this should be a task for private operators, and only if there was a strong reason for it would we be in favour of doing it differently, and we do not find that there is. It is the government's opinion that confidence in the banks should instead be ensured through regulation, as we are now doing, and by ensuring that banks are effectively supervised, including the prevention of financial crime. We are in the process of tightening this up in virtually all the ways we have been able to think about that. In view of the circumstances I have listed here, the government does not believe that any investigation should be undertaken and the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160125	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160131	I have just heard the Minister say what he has been saying here, which is why I would really like to hear: now that there is international talk about this too, for example the director of the IMF, Christine Lagarde, has been talking about us having to start looking at this, does the government not think it would be sensible to start going deeper than the National Bank's report? The fact that we went down the politically deeper path and just found out what lies in this now that we have talked about it from various international organisations. So be at the forefront instead of at the rear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160210	No, the government doesn't think so. We do not think it would be a good idea to have such a total change in the role of the National Bank to be an ordinary bank where ordinary citizens put their money in. The National Bank is today the bank of the banks, and that is the role that we think the National Bank should perform; not that it should compete with all the other banks and have deposit accounts for the citizens. It is a very different role for the National Bank than it has today, and we do not like that idea. We think it is right that the private market should provide the deposit accounts to citizens that they need. It works quite well. There are, of course, plenty of challenges in the financial sector, but the challenges we are currently discussing are Danske Bank's case in Estonia and profit scandals etc. It has nothing to do with citizens having money standing in Danske Bank, that there has been money laundering in Estonia. So I actually find it hard to see what the challenge is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160317	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160319	I understand that the government will hold hands under private banks and that we must support their business going on. We think, of course, that it is quite sensible to look at how we create a free choice for the citizens of this society. But again, I would like to hear an answer to the question I asked: when the director of the IMF goes out and says these things, isn't that something you listen to in the Ministry of Business, in the government, and thinking that maybe we should be at the forefront of development, and maybe we should look at this properly? Because the motion for a resolution is, in fact, a motion for a resolution to examine it in detail, not to introduce it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160359	We always listen to wise people and, of course, also to the IMF. I am not sharp on how the IMF's statements should have exactly fallen in this respect, so I will not deal with them so much, but I will say that we disagree with the idea that an e-krona should be created and that the National Bank should act as a bank for citizens with deposit accounts for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160427	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160435	Now it's going to sound like this debate is about whether citizens should have an account in the National Bank, but it's one solution to this with an e-krona. I think we should be careful not to confuse the two discussions altogether, because we can easily have a public banking alternative without an e-krone, and we can actually also have an e-krone model without a public banking alternative. After all, the Swedish Riksbank has worked very hard in this work and looks at different models, both an account-based model, but also a non-account-based model. The reason for this work is, after all, a little more than what the Alternative writes in their explanatory statement, that it is also about the role of the National Bank itself in a situation where we are heading towards a cashless society. For one of the tasks of the National Bank is the creation of physical money, and when physical money is on its way to disappear, the role of the National Bank is fundamentally changed. This is first and foremost why the Swedish Riksbank has embarked on this comprehensive project, which, I believe, will have to decide within the coming year whether to introduce an e-crown. Is the Minister aware of the arguments underlying the Swedish project?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160551	First of all, we are dealing with what we are discussing, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, in which it has been mentioned that we would like to see it examined whether there could be an e-money account that could serve as an alternative to private bank accounts. It is a direct quotation from the resolution. In order to determine here whether we should vote for or against the motion for a resolution, I think it is appropriate to put forward arguments for and against the motion for a resolution. We just don't think we see any perspective in that the National Bank is about to offer private bank accounts. That is why I mentioned it. It is quite a central part of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160638	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160639	But historically it has been the case that banks produce what you could call digital money. They do that when we take a loan. As citizens, we have the opportunity to go to the National Bank and have the digital money exchanged for physical money at any time, regarding bank runs and everything else. That is what we could do today, in other words, raise our money and get cash, which only the National Bank must create, and which the National Bank guarantees, if it is to be said, the value of. They do not do so directly from the digital money that the banks are creating, and this is what I see as the reason why this is an interesting discussion which I hope will not end with this proposal. So my question is this: isn't it a little thought-provoking that two countries that are similar to each other? Denmark and Sweden... each have an independent central bank, where the Danish National Bank arrives that this is not relevant, and the Swedish National Bank initiates a huge international investigation work to investigate the possibilities? Is it not something that should at least do that we should pay attention to this in the coming years as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160749	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160750	Well, it is an exciting discussion, no doubt about it, and that part of the debate is also extremely lively, and a great many points of view can be taken very carefully, I think, at least very intensely in universities, in professional environments, in the financial sector and in all sorts of other places. It is perhaps a little difficult for me to see that if we ordered an explanation from the National Bank, there would be such a definitive authoritative clarification of the whole discussion that is running on life all over the world and where the fundamental issues are the same in Denmark as they are in all other countries in the world where you have banks that to some extent issue electronic money, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted put it. So I do not see that such an explanation just makes it possible for us to settle that discussion completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160846	With that, we thank the Minister for Industry. Then we start the rapporteur's round, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312160854	Thank you, President. Thanks to the alternative for raising this important and current debate on the situation in the Danish financial sector. I would like to start by stating that we in the Social Democratic Party are deeply outraged by the cases that have been brought forward, where there has been deliberate fraud and tax evasion in the Danish financial sector. Nor should there be any doubt that this represents a breach of the basic social contract between the financial sector and the rest of society. These are matters which undermine the Danes' confidence in the banks and the financial system. That is why it is also high on the Social Democrats' agenda to address financial crime and we agree that we have a political task to ensure a more effective protection against money laundering and profit fraud. However, we do not believe that a nationally run bank and the creation of an e-krona, as is also proposed in this motion for a resolution, are the right way to go. We believe that action should instead be taken through stricter regulation and control of the financial sector. We have put forward a number of proposals on how to strengthen the fight against financial crime. We have, for example. proposed to split the FSA's tasks in order to focus more on the supervision's work in detecting money laundering, and to give supervision extended powers so that they can issue e.g. administrative fines. In addition, we believe that public representatives should be re-entered into the Board of Directors of banks and financial institutions, and we will strengthen the possibility of imposing liability on senior members of the financial sector when their risky business models drive their banks into bankruptcy. I would also like to point out that Denmark has one of the most well-functioning digital payment systems in the world, where instant clearings mean that money can be transferred instantly. And we agree with the National Bank that the Danes are already being offered a number of digital currencies such as the National Bank. MobilePay, the dance card and the debit card. It is therefore our view that a national e-crown, as proposed by the Alternative, does not offer the Danes significant new features. I have also noted, as the Minister has also said, that the National Bank itself pointed out that the proposal could increase the risk that the money will move towards the National Bank in a crisis situation, and this could then mean that private banks may lack liquidity. In extreme cases, the National Bank may end up with the financing of the banking system. This means that the National Bank, and not the shareholders and creditors of the banks, are the ones with the risk, and I do not think this is an optimal situation. Against this background, we do not believe that the proposal to introduce an e-krona and associated payment account into the National Bank is the right way to go. We will focus our attention on ensuring effective protection against financial crime through enhanced supervision and enhanced ability to judge those responsible. In this way, we can clean up the fraud and tax evasion that is taking place, and thus we can also ensure the best possible conditions for safe and satisfied Danish banking customers with confidence in the sector. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal. And I welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be here, and say that the Radical Left cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161218	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161221	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. I'm a little curious, because yes, we can regulate more, screw the buttons we already know. Or it is, of course, that we can give people a new opportunity, that is, that you can get a digital room in your wallet and put your money into it. Do we have to rely on private banks to do so, or do we have to have the extra room in our wallet where we can have our e-kroner? That is what these ideas are all about, and that is why we are beginning to look at it by international organisations, and Sweden, in particular, has set the work in motion. Does the Social Democrats not think that it is sensible to examine properly what it will mean, how it can be done and what it will be? That is what the proposal is all about. It is not a question of introducing it tomorrow, but it is a question of taking a spade deeper down and finding out: why are so many others actually talking about it here? There may be some sense in it. We may not have just invented the very best in Denmark by saying that we regulate a little more on what we know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161328	I would like to say to the final point about the regulation that it is today and what we are doing in the field of money laundering, for example. So there is certainly a need for regulation in this area. As regards the National Bank, there is an arm's length arm; it is an independent bank vis-à-vis the State. However, we should not have public pay accounts in the way that I think is being proposed in this proposal. We believe that it is better to have private banks that keep the price down and compete to provide good services to people, while at the same time, from a political point of view, ensuring that the banks behave properly and stay within the legislation we adopt here in the Folketing. Specifically in relation to e-kroner, and what is focused on in the world, and whether there are other countries that go further than us, we must of course follow in whether there is a development somewhere, and whether there is something we need to look at in Denmark. But, as I said, the National Bank has made a study of this. So we actually have something relatively good national to relate to here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161448	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161448-2	But what I think is so important when we look at the financial sector right now and we look at the scandals that have been and which, of course, make us have to stop and see if there is anything else we have to do is look at how it is we give the individual citizen a real opportunity for a different choice by saying: If I do not want to support and depend on the private banks and do not want to take all my money out in cash and sew them into the mattress, I would like to be able to hide some of them as e-kroner. That's what it is: Instead of people taking out all their cash and sewing them into the mattress, we're making them an e-room that they can put that money in. Would it not be sensible to give the citizens of our country that choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161534	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161536	As it is today, there are, in fact, also some really good consumer choice for Danish consumers. I myself have changed the bank in recent years because the bank where I have my money is where I can see that you behave properly, and that is where I think you run a bank in a way that I think is the way to run a bank in Denmark. Now I am not going to be calling for certain banks to lose their customers or for people to go somewhere. But I hope that people will be aware of where they want their money or where they want to borrow their money, and in this way we will also see to it that the banks in Denmark behave properly. Because I believe that when people vote with their feet, it also has an impact on how the banks behave. Above all, however, we must ensure that we make legislation from in here which banks must stay within, so that we have proper banking operations in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161624	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161626	I think there are various discussions that are being messed up a little here. Because all this about combating money laundering and the behaviour of the banks is of course extremely important, and I think we are all concerned about this, we have so different wishes about how far the things should go. However, regardless of whether the private banks had behaved completely unproblematicly, this discussion about the e-kron is still, in my view, a relevant discussion because the cash disappears. I would just like to quote Swedish Central Bank Director Ingves, who says: if the cash disappears, then citizens will no longer have access to national bank money, central bank money, that is, money guaranteed by the state. It is therefore a completely significant change in the relationship between money, citizens and central bank if we move towards a cashless society. For then we have only one kind of money, and it is money that private banks issue, and we, as citizens, do not have the opportunity to exchange the money for some money guaranteed by the National Bank. That is why he also says subsequently: that is why it is natural to ask whether the National Bank should offer a secure electronic alternative, which should work in about the same way as cash works today. That is the background, at least for that debate. It is not whether the banks behave badly or well, but that we are doing a rather large paradigm shift in the relationship between money, citizens, private banks and state.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161756	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161757	In relation to whether there is a paradigm shift on the way: Should we not make sure that we here in the Folketing decide how the development is going and make the regulation on it? As the Minister also mentioned, there are certain problems if we take the steps that this motion for a resolution will examine whether we should take: the very thing about bank run, that is that it is the National Bank that people are coming to in the event of a financial crisis. There we have to think about how we will set up the Danish banking legislation, also around the National Bank, so that we make sure that if there are any shocks to the Danish economy and the Danish financial sector, we also have to be robust enough to ensure that the economy does not collapse in Denmark, so that it transforms into a real economic crisis. I think maybe I'm a little reluctant to just let go. Perhaps I would rather look at that if there is some experience in the world that we can learn from, so that we avoid getting into these situations where it can push the Danish economy. So let's take a look at it then. But I don't think that Denmark should be the frontrunner in this and gamble with Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161908	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312161911	No, but now the alternative is also merely proposing a study to look at this, just as we have seen that the Swedish National Bank has chosen to implement, and one can of course say that this is just political. But it is, of course, to try to anticipate developments where we see that it is not a political choice, but that it is primarily a technological development that we see where cash plays a smaller and smaller role and may be on the way to disappear altogether. And in this sense, it is good to look at the National Bank law that we, as far as I remember, made back in the mid-1920s, if not earlier, and which was precisely based on a society where it was cash that played the main role in the payment system. Because that changes significantly the power conditions when that reality changes. That is why I think that if you vote in favour of this proposal or not, I would recommend that the Socialists at least follow the debate that is going on in other countries' central banks around this in the coming years. Because I think this is actually a relevant discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162010	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162012	We shall keep up with the Social Democrats, and we have also taken into account today the fact that the National Bank has just examined this. Then I would just like to point out to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, that we are actually constantly making legislation that takes care of this with new opportunities for consumers. Within this parliamentary assembly we have taken a huge step - yes, in fact the biggest step since the introduction of the Dankort in 1984 - in relation to electronic solutions and the ability of fintech companies to make product development for the benefit of the Danes in this area in relation to payments and accounts, so that we can all have it on our mobile phones and all of this. So I think we have actually taken some steps in this parliamentary term, which is really, really good, and we have done it by a broad majority in here. Let's keep an eye on what's happening in the area around e-kroner, or what they're called around the world. And then, of course, we have to take stock of it and make decisions here in the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162108	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen and move on. It is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162120	Thank you, sir. President. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign for the opportunity to have a monetary policy debate here in the Danish Parliament. There are developments in this area, and if you look at just the last 5 years, you can see that a great deal has happened in relation to the way the Danes and our companies pay for the things they order. There are more and more payment methods, and many of the payment methods are also foreign, Google Pay and all sorts of others. So there is a lot going on, and that is why it is of course also a good opportunity to discuss it here in the Folketing, and that cadeau must certainly also have the alternative. In the Danish People's Party we think that some of the comments that the Alternative uses as an argument for taking this discussion may be a known misplaced. In any case, we do not share the view that discussions about housing bubbles, money laundering for billions, lies and concealment and what is called unequivocal greed, I believe, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist has put it as it is, are some things that have any factual justification whatsoever in relation to what we are discussing in the motion for a resolution. At least I don't think we're gonna get less money laundering or greed out of starting this investigation. We also share the comments of the Minister for Business and Industry on the fact that, in our view, the National Bank has already been carrying out extensive analysis work. Things are moving fast. I do not wish to deny that there may be a situation in which a new study should be carried out when there are new ways of doing things, a new development in terms of IT and so on. But in the Danish People's Party we do not think that is what is happening at the moment. If you look at some of what the alternative specifies, it is also that you must not be as a bank, I think there are profit-oriented banks; we should not be so happy about them. The Danish People's Party therefore does not share that view either. In fact, we believe that it is important that Danish banks are profit-oriented. If we did not have profit-oriented banks, many things would be very, very serious in Danish society. The development of computer programs, the provision of services to banks' customers, and these are both citizens and companies, comprehensive advice, pension investments, all sorts of other things, extensive analysis work, in relation to where best to place your funds and savings and have your capital managed; all the tasks in today's Denmark are services that a bank should be able to offer, and so this must be done in a regulated area. But it must of course also be the case that companies must be allowed to be profit-oriented. And so it is, as the Socialist rapporteur also said, that citizens and companies should then choose where they should lay down their banking business with their feet, so to speak. In the Danish People's Party, we are not in favour of entering and setting up a state bank when citizens have to set up an account in a bank where they cannot simply withdraw their money. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it is important that you have the opportunity to withdraw your own money. That is where the schism begins, because the alternative says that you have to be able to put the money into the National Bank and then you have to be able to get it back out. But there is something that, in our view at least, is beginning to cost money. Because when the money comes out, you might need a credit card to get the money out. You may have to raise some of the money in an external money change machine or ATM somewhere in the kingdom, and then things start to cost. There it is no good, then, that it is the state that enters through the National Bank and begins to compete for those kinds of payment services to citizens and companies. So we are not very enthusiastic about the overall thrust of the Alternative's proposal, but we recognise that developments are going incredibly fast, and we also believe that if we take that dialogue here in Parliament in a few years' time, there might be a completely different situation, because that is how fast things are going. The future generations who enter the consumer market also consume in a different way from those who are my age, 50 years old and older, which means that we may not have been brought up to where we come from. There we in the Danish People's Party think it would be quite appropriate if we took that discussion at a later stage. But as it is now, we do not have any further arguments to support this proposal, so we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162629	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162632	Now you can hear the big parties in the Folketing say: let us wait and see and just let the development go, and then we can stand and wait. What I really thought was interesting to ask about is because it's quite fine that we can have different views about this... is whether you see the citizens of this country as consumers or citizens. After all, if you have some money standing in a bank account, you can choose to raise them all together and sew them into the mattress at home if you don't want to be a consumer all the time, but actually just be a citizen. Or you can look at: How can we create other opportunities? Does not the Danish People's Party think that people should have the opportunity to do so, that is to say have a really free choice not to be part of the private banks and the way they want to do business in the same way that the different banks do so but actually that the values we have, which are crowns, should also be able to be saved in a different way, so that we do not always have to be consumers, but actually can also just be citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162736	It may well be a very, very abstract discussion that we embark on with the questions that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is coming with us. Most people who have so-called ordinary incomes do not want to place their funds in an account which they cannot simply raise when they want to. Therefore, we also think it makes sense to put your money into a free basic account in a Danish bank. We have also said on the other occasions that we have previously had here in the Folketing about the free accounts and guarantees for them, that if we get into a situation where there are suddenly no Danish banks who want to give citizens a free base account, then we have a different situation. But that is not the case because we have an open liberal market where there is good and healthy competition between very many Danish savings banks and not least larger and smaller banks. And that is not where the National Bank should enter and start competing with them to create accounts on which one has to put one's money. It's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162843	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162843-2	That's what we're going to get back to what this proposal is about. I would like to quote the following: the investigation will have to illustrate how an e-krona under the auspices of the National Bank can be designed and implemented. It shows quite a lot of openness that we are looking at this uncritically and actually looking at how this can be done, precisely in order to give the citizens the real choice. That is what I find interesting: it is actually also discussing what we are going to offer our citizens in this society. Should they be forced to be customers in private banks who do business as they wish to do in the legislation we have when it is complied with? Or should you have a free choice? That's what you have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312162925	This is also part of what has been done with the analysis carried out in the National Bank. I think, of course, that the alternative is trying to turn something into a problem which, as such, is not a problem. I do not think there are very many consumers at all with that wish. Now the questioner also calls them citizens, and of course it is citizens who have these accounts. But most citizens also want to have an account from which they can withdraw their money whenever they want, without having to enter via a central bank. That is what you can do today when you have the right to a free and free basic deposit account in a bank. Then it is true that you have to choose either a savings bank or a bank to have your money placed in. But there is also a great many opportunities for choosing such a place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163009	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted? Well, it's off again. It was noted here. But it's allowed to regret, so everything's okay. No blames from here, not at all. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, who is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163024	Thank you. I guess you have the right to speak, but you don't have the duty to speak. As can be seen, it is the alternative that has tabled a motion for a resolution calling for this study to be carried out on the design of an e-crown. The reason for the proposal is that it is evidently terrible that we are living in a free market economy. I also believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said that it is terrible that as a citizen one can only have a bank account with private, profit-oriented banks. Yeah, so it's like toned clean flags. I think it must actually be tough if you have that approach. When you need your necessities of life and have to go down to buy your daily bread, food and cold cuts, and whatever else it may be, you also go into a store where the starting point is that there are some who make money from it. There are a lot of places where you need someone to make money. That's kind of what makes things stick together. Now, of course, I see Pelle Dragsted is shaking his head. He probably thinks of Coop, which is an example of voluntary union, but the starting point is that what makes things work is that some people make money out of it. That is what drives our society. That is what creates growth; that is what creates prosperity; and that is what is the prerequisite for the welfare that we in here can then use taxpayers' money for. It is not because I am not going to agree with the authors of the proposal that there have been problems in the financial sector, because that has certainly been the case, and we have not been sitting on our hands for many years here either. We have tightened the legislation quite considerably. We have certainly not been satisfied with what we have seen going on with financial crisis, money laundering scandals, tax fraud and everything else, and that is why, of course, we are responding sharply again in the form of stricter rules. But that approach does not mean that we are now about to invent something completely new in the form of an e-money deposit account with the National Bank. I think there are a number of elements which have already been mentioned in the debate and which underline why we in the Left cannot support the resolution either. Firstly, it can be said that there is, of course, a very free market for the use of different payment solutions. New ones are constantly being developed, making it easier to be a consumer. It creates more choice, it increases competition, and that is quite reasonable. I know that it is probably not from a competitive point of view that the alternative has this desire, but that it is a question of having the opportunity to place your money in a different way than in the form of cash. But the consequence of the proposal is that, as a citizen, you will become a customer in the National Bank, and if customers move the money from their existing financial institutions and into the National Bank, we can risk, as I think the Minister also mentioned, that financial stability will be challenged. Secondly, it is also the case that an analysis has already been carried out by the National Bank in that area and, finally, there is an emphasis on the right of consumers in Denmark to have a free deposit account in a bank where there is a deposit guarantee scheme. So it is risk-free as a banker to place deposits in banks of up to DKK 750,000. So for these reasons, and for many other reasons, I can say that the Left cannot support the resolution, and I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163414	Thank you for that, and this time Mr. Pelle Dragsted is on this list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163420	After all, the rapporteur took up my objection. I would just like to point out briefly that there are, in fact, many good alternatives to companies that are there to make money. The largest chain of groceries, as the rapporteur said, is owned by consumers themselves and is precisely not intended to make money, but to offer consumers the lowest prices. It is, in fact, a corporate idea which does not grow out of the history of my party, but rather from the history of the rapporteur's party. The same is true in large parts of our supply sector, and indeed also in our banking sector, where we can easily choose banks that are not put in the world to make money. We have co-funds, and we have guarantee savings banks, so there are opportunities. And as I have said to the rapporteur before, I think that this is something we should grow a little more together and recognise this very important part of our business. But it was a deposit, so I shall be very brief. Does the rapporteur think that we can accept a situation where cash no longer exists or has no use whatsoever in the day-to-day business without finding another alternative to ensure that citizens can acquire money guaranteed by the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163541	Thank you. It is quite obvious that when you come from Thisted, where Denmark's first utility association was founded, you should have it with you. And I'm kind of glad that Mr. Pelle Dragsted also emphasizes the possibility that, as a consumer, you can make these free choices, so that you can enter a cooperative fund, you can enter a savings bank, you can enter a profit-oriented financial institution, as the alternative calls it. That is, of course, the great thing about the free market, so I can welcome the fact that we agree that the free market gives consumers most of the opportunities for action. When it comes to what one imagines in the case that cash such physically disappears, I would say that it is of course an interesting thought which has been difficult to imagine years ago. But I can easily follow the thought experiment, and for many people it is, in fact, everyday today, when you don't run around with a lot of sounding coins and crackling notes. And what is the solution? I guess it doesn't make the big thing, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that you have money guaranteed by a depositor's guarantee. And that is what I think is essential, in other words, that you, as a citizen, can keep your fortune securely within a certain amount of money. As a society, we ensure that, among other things. with a depositor guarantee fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163704	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163707	This is a rather nerdy discussion, but one of the arguments put forward by the Swedish bank manager is in fact that the fact that the citizens ultimately have the opportunity to change their money into cash is a kind of prerequisite for confidence in the digital money that the banks issue, so that we can actually risk a less trusting or stable system if we come to a situation where the citizens no longer have that opportunity. But it is probably a debate that we will have to continue in the coming years. It can be said that if Sweden actually implements this, we will at least have the opportunity to study the consequences and the results of it before we make a decision ourselves at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163756	I think I agree that this will be an exciting academic discussion. Because you could say that trust in our money is kind of abstract. You have confidence in the money system because you can get some cash exchanged. But the cash is worth nothing if there is no trust in them. It's basically just a piece of paper or some metal. After all, it is only because there is confidence in them and that we, as a society, recognise that it has a value and that we know that with the way our economy is linked, there is real value behind it. And that is the basic thing, in other words, that there is real confidence in the values that are called in our currency. Now I am not going to open up a long academic debate, but I guess it's not so crucial whether they're on paper or in zeros and ones electronically. But that's interesting, and let's follow what's happening in the wide world. But at the moment I feel covered by what the National Bank has already done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163859	It is quite true that there should not be a long debate now. 'Cause that's sir. Pelle Dragsted, the next rapporteur in line, and he is now hurrying towards the platform, I see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312163917	So, now, the long academic debate begins no, joke aside. Thanks to the alternative for raising this debate, which is an important but also, yes, a somewhat nerdy debate on the money system and banking system, and which, of course, is going on in very many countries around. The Swedish central bank is a frontrunner in it, but also the British and Australian central banks are looking in the same direction and discussing whether to establish what is called an e-krona, i.e. a kind of digital substitute for the role that cash has historically played. Because the cash is on the way to disappear, and so we can find ourselves in a situation where the citizens no longer have the access they have had to central bank money, which is guaranteed by the state. And what does that really mean for the relationship between citizens, state, banking and money? That is what the discussion is about and, as I said, it has led to a debate among economists and, above all, central banks around us. Because if you read the law on the National Bank, but also the law on the other central bank, the creation of money is a very, very central task area for the National Bank, but as soon as the cash disappears, one of its central tasks has been taken away from the National Bank. And then it is a little interesting to arrive at quite different results in the different central banks. After all, Sweden has gone a very long way and is launching such a project. There has not been a final decision on this, but a very thorough piece of work has been done, while the National Bank in Denmark has come to the very opposite conclusion, namely that there is no reason to look at it. And I think that in itself is a little thought-provoking to see in two countries which have such a common history and whose monetary policy developments have in many ways resembled each other, to some extent at least. I also think that in this debate we should highlight the Association of Good Money, which has helped to raise this discussion at home. I really think it is very impressive that an association can travel and manage to set a political agenda with such a nerdy discussion as that. I do not agree with all the views of the association. I think that, among other things, we should be able to do something about it. overestimates the importance of money creation and money supply. In my view, it is still the activity of the money that plays a greater role than the amount of money itself. But it's also a nerdy discussion. In any case, it is good that they have raised that debate. Whether to support an e-crown or not, and what form it should take, is not something we have taken a final position on in the Enhedslisten. However, we support the idea of an explanation and therefore also support the proposal. However, I think, as some rapporteurs have said, that perhaps there is a little confusion in the alternative's proposal, which, like a whole series of problems in the financial sector, lists a whole range of problems and then points to this as the solution or at least part of the solution to them all. And there I think there is a need for a more broad spectrum of medicines if we are to clean up the situation in the financial sector. It is also true when the alternative writes that one of the models you have for an e-crown will mean that citizens will have an account in the National Bank, i.e. a draw right on the National Bank. That's what's called the account-based model. But this is not the only model, and what is perhaps even more important is that the citizens are actually given freedom. Because I am very much in favour of a public banking alternative coming here in Denmark, so that as a citizen of Denmark, like the citizens of Germany, France, Portugal and many other European countries, people will actually be given freedom. This is something that the side of the House over here is usually in favour of, that is, the freedom to choose whether you want to have your account in a public banking alternative. However, it is not necessary to get an e-krona in order to get a public banking alternative. There are countless countries in Europe which, as I mentioned, have good public banking alternatives and banking offers. We have the German savings banks, we have the French Banque Postal, a bank with 11 million customers, which is one hundred percent state-owned, and in Portugal the state bank also has a dominant role. So there are public banking offers in many places, and we are strong supporters of that. But these two things are not necessarily linked. The Enhedslisten can support the proposal to have a closer look at this. It's a little funny, because the National Bank is an independent bank, and they might as well have decided otherwise, i.e. to make an analysis of this, just as you have done in Sweden, or to go ahead with this project. And then maybe the roles would have been reversed here. Then it would be me and Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Nordqvist, who had been happy, and those who today are happy, had thought it was something worse. And that in itself is a little interesting. However, we certainly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164421	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments, so now we are happy! Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164429	Thank you for that, President. After all, we live in a world of incredibly rapid development in technology and IT. It offers many opportunities for new products that can make our everyday life easier and freer, save the environment and make life miserable for those who want to do black work and launder money. The money laundering cases that we have seen are totally unacceptable and have wasted so much on the trust of citizens and politicians. And the financial world has a great task ahead of it in restoring that trust. It is important that the legislation follows developments, and in the case of money laundering, we have just done some pretty big things. However, in our eagerness to join both in the innovative wave and also in a wave to minimise the risk of fraud and money laundering, we must not move towards nationalisation, and we must, for all things in the world, avoid public theft of tasks. The public authorities themselves do not have to carry out tasks which are already carried out by private companies. With this proposal, it is proposed that the National Bank should compete with private banks and, in practice, act as a state bank. It is certainly not a road that the Liberal Alliance wants to go, and we therefore do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164554	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. In fact, Mr President, we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164604	Thank you. Thank you to all the rapporteurs who have discussed this today. This has actually been interesting, because the discussion has moved up and down slightly between the very concrete and the more fundamental. Some said it was academic or nerdy, and I will not take part in it at all, because I am just a designer and a politician, so I can neither participate in the academic nor the nerdy part of the discussion. What I think is an important issue today, which is why we have actually very deliberately written the comments on the proposal that we have, is that we see a financial sector that works as it does, acting as it does. And I think we need to respond to that. I think we need to react by saying that yes, more regulation needs to be made. It was the Social Democrat rapporteur on the subject, of course, that much more needs to be done. Some steps have been taken, but much more can be done. There must also be proper control, control at European level, etc. etc. But I also think that the last year, in fact the last decade, has raised questions about the systems we have. How is it that we can do something about the systems? And I would like to see us disturbing the fact that we were allowed to give the citizens a genuinely free choice. Today you have free choice between one private bank or the other private bank or I can go down and withdraw all my money and go home and sew it into the mattress and hide it there. That is where we actually just want to get into the discussion and say: how do we create the real free choice where we actually say that we are citizens and not consumers all the time? That's what we wanted to make with this proposal. It is also a cautious motion for a resolution, as we do not propose that the implementation of the e-krona be carried out tomorrow, but in fact it is only doing an investigation work to illustrate how an electronic crown under the auspices of the National Bank can be designed and implemented so that it becomes wiser together. And that is what we would have liked there to be a majority in favour, but I can count the seats, even if all the parties are not present, and see that this is not quite where we are. I'm gonna have to make a few points. Now was among other things. LA's rapporteur refers to nationalization and theft of tasks. No, it is really about giving the individual citizen a free choice, rather than forcing the citizens into a framework that we are doing today. That's what we want with this. It is precisely not to say that you have to create a bank that makes all the same solutions as a private bank does, but just that you can save your money in the electronic room in the wallet. And I actually think it would be worthwhile for the Liberal Alliance to ask itself: how are we giving that free choice to citizens, also in relation to not necessarily being part of the system we know? So I hope this is a debate that lives on, even though it does not seem that there is a majority for it now. In fact, I hope that we can also take the questions of principle. It doesn't have to be nerdy, it doesn't have to be academic, it can just be in principle. In any case, I hope that this resolution will be able to take part at first reading, and there will then be a committee reading in which I hope we will take one more step.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164932	There is already a curious question. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312164936	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist speaks of a truly free choice. There are a host of banks to choose from, but the definition of a real free choice is evident that it is only if there is also a state bank to choose. It is not enough that there are all sorts of banks. There must also be a state bank, otherwise there will be no free choice. That's how it sounds, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist defines the free choice. That's one thing. The second point is that with the proposal that a state bank should be allowed to outperform private banks, how does Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist saw that the future will be? There will then be a public monopoly which will so restrict freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165024	I can in no way see that an investigation to illustrate how an electronic crown under the auspices of the National Bank can be designed and implemented will mean the end of the whole world. But I can see that it is a really free choice that I, instead of having to withdraw my money and go home and sew them into the mattress, can have them standing as e-kroner. I think this is a free choice for me as a citizen, and it even comes with the time we live in when the attitude towards cash has changed. We have electronic money. What is it that we want to give citizens the opportunity to do so, instead of being the alternative to the mattress?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165057	Then Mrs May-Britt Kattrup will be able to make another brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165101	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says that the fact that we want to set in motion an investigation does not mean that the rapporteur sees any problem in it. However, the purpose of setting in motion an investigation is surely to reach where the rapporteur would like to go, namely to have a state bank. For why do an investigation work if you don't want to get there? That's one thing. The second point is that if the rapporteur wants an electronic currency it may well be that it may be relevant at some point in the day one may make a proposal on that which does not include a nationalisation of the banking world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165142	That is what is always interesting when you meet and discuss politics: there are some who see this as a nationalisation of the banking world, but I see it here in such a way that I, as a citizen and not as a consumer, have a choice. Right now I only have a free choice as a consumer and can go around and find out which banks want me as a customer. I want the real free choice. That's what we're proposing with this: we don't have to take the money out and sew it into the mattress, but actually just get an electronic room to put it in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165209	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. No one else has asked for the floor. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165229	We are opening the negotiations, and we are doing so with Mrs Malou Lunderød from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165251	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, could not be here today. That's why I promised to give her the speech. This bill is, after all, the implementation of the agreement we entered into with the government, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF back in December. In the social democracy we are actually very pleased with what we have ended up in cooperation. The agreement has given us a supplementary grant for pupils with disabilities in vocational schools with the agreement. This seems to us to be a vital and a good step towards equalising opportunities for young people with disabilities in order to take up university education and vocational training. By introducing this supplementary grant to vocational schools, it gives young people with a reduced function a practical opportunity to take up vocational training. Of course, one's economic situation plays a role in choosing education. And if you have to choose between higher education, where you are entitled to such a supplementary grant, or a vocational training where you do not have the possibility of financial support, I can understand if the incentives for choosing vocational training are reduced. Young people with disabilities should, as far as possible, also be able to take vocational training so that they can get a foot into the labour market. As I said earlier, this has only been given in higher education, but now vocational training is just as much a vocational education as higher education. That is why it makes only good sense for us to have vocational schools now. We thus ensure that an additional grant will not become a parameter in the consideration of what one would like to train for and hopefully work on afterwards. So part of this deal is also an increase of DKK 1,000 in the amount of the exemption. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is fine, as everything else is equal to a relatively small group of students who are up in that wage bill. And if they want to work a little bit more or earn a little more during the summer holidays, it is also only fair because at the same time we are so satisfied that we have managed to introduce this disability allowance for pupils in vocational schools. In the Social Democratic Party we are therefore in favour of the proposal as a whole. And we are primarily because the increase in the free amount of DKK 1,000. is a very good solution for the few students involved, but most of all we are very happy that we have had this opportunity that young people with physical or mental disabilities now have a real opportunity to also choose a vocational training on the same terms as if they were going to take a university course and that is without having to consider whether they can make their financial situation stick together. We think this is a very good step towards giving them even better opportunities to get an education and then get a foot into the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165547	We are grateful to the Socialist rapporteur, and then it is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, who is on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312165602	Thank you. I welcome the legislative proposals we are discussing here today. We have been discussing for a very long time the need to equate vocational training with higher education. We have discussed the fact that we would like more people to take vocational training and that we would like everyone to join us. And then it has puzzled us in the Danish People's Party that it has not been a matter of course that there should be equality. Why would we rather support people with disabilities in taking higher education than support them in obtaining vocational training? It should be such that you can take the education you have the skills to do. The Danish People's Party submitted back in spring 2017, in fact two years ago, a motion for a resolution that su-handicap supplement should be given to pupils in vocational education and training. During the committee's work we had a unanimous Parliament to support a report which said: "The committee agrees that students with a disability in vocational training should be supported in the best possible way in the implementation of their vocational training. Denmark needs skilled young people and we must help to motivate more young people to take up vocational training. In addition, the opportunities to take an education for students with disabilities - just as for students without disabilities - must be good. The Committee calls for students with a disability in vocational training to be assimilated, as appropriate, to students with a disability in higher education. Time's up. It's actually taken two years for us to get here. I was really happy when last week, I think it was, so a broadcast from Bornholm's TV about a girl with cerebral palsy. She talked about how she had helped to fight for this disability allowance for vocational training and how pleased she is with the proposal we are dealing with right now. She also told me how she had actually given up several times in this long, long run. Could it ever happen? But she kept going, and that is precisely the commitment that we must support. That is also why we need to secure the support so that girls like her can be supported in getting the education they want. She could tell that she had been lucky enough to have rehabilitation and thus had the opportunity to take a vocational training course. I know that there was a minister in this area in a former government, Morten Østergaard, who said at one point that if you had a disability, you should get rehabilitation. Now the problem is just that rehabilitation is not something you just get today, and I think that the very essence of this is actually that we should try to equate and equate different courses, also similar to young people with and without disabilities. So that's why this is gonna be central. Now we are discussing the bill today, and I am really, really happy about that. Then we just have to remember in the middle of the joy that we're not done yet. I am very pleased that we are getting the disability allowance in place, but it is only a supplement that you get while at the same time you are on the su, and that means that during the paid periods of the training you are not covered. Therefore, the next step in this fight for me and for the Danish People's Party will be to create a framework for young people with disabilities, so that they are also supported during internship periods and during paid periods. It is a little paradoxical that if you are young and have a disability, which means that you will obviously have to have a flexible job with the care that may be necessary, then the same care cannot be shown to the young person during the training in which you have to learn the subject in which you have to have a flexible job afterwards. This means that you can get the framework in the job, but you just cannot get the necessary framework during the training, so you can get the training which is, of course, a prerequisite for getting the job that you would subsequently be able to contest. Do you see the logic? Then there's the other part of this bill that's about free payments for su-beneficiaries. In principle, we in the Danish People's Party take the view that you should be allowed to earn whatever you want next to the study, but on the condition that, in order to have your full-time study, you take care of your full-time study. In the discussion about study jobs it sometimes seems as if it is the study that should conform to the study job as if the study job is the most important. In my view and in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, if you are enrolled in a full-time study with su, you have a full-time job in your study with an expected effort of at least 40-50 hours a week. I will not underestimate the value of a relevant study job, and if, in addition to your study, you can also do a study job, whatever you may earn, then that's fine with it. The alternative, which I would just like to mention, is the opportunity that has been offered for vocational training, where four years can be spent on taking a two-year Master's degree programme, while at the same time being employed in a company. I hope that vocational training can be very widely disseminated, because it is precisely there that jobs and studies are equal and integrated. However, the Danish People's Party also supports the increase in the free amount, and we are happy to support the overall bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170048	With that, we thank Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170100	Thank you, President. One of the great pleasures of working with our current Minister for Education is the Minister's ability to bring together very wide-ranging conciliations. We have already experienced this, but also to negotiate with good collaborators, so that we get a bill that embraces widely and that everyone can see themselves in. That is why I am pleased that there is broad support for an increase of DKK 1000 in the amount of the exemption. for all students, and I am pleased that there is broad support for students in vocational training to be able to receive an allowance of DKK 5,500 if they have a mental or physical disability. In the Left we are therefore very pleased that Danish students now gain more economic freedom and flexibility. On the one hand, the proposal will benefit the students, as Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party was also so good to mention • going on a vocational training but who cannot necessarily take care of a job because they have a disability. They will in future be able to receive a disability allowance which can at least partially compensate for what they would have been able to earn if they had been able to work alongside the training. As it looks today, the supplement is only an opportunity for students with a higher education, and we are spreading that more now. In addition, the proposal will benefit all students who wish to work alongside the study. The increase in the free amount means that students can earn 1,000 DKK. more, without them having to start paying back from their su. The proposal provides an incentive for students to get relevant work experience. It is good for employers, and it is good for students. So to sum up: The bill gives students more economic freedom and more flexibility, and it is precisely greater flexibility that is at the heart of our entire approach to education and the many good initiatives that we have taken recently. That is why the Left supports the bill, and I welcome it from the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170306	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170313	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we welcome the fact that the proposal provides for the possibility for young people with permanent physical and mental impairments to receive a disability supplement to their diet when they go on the initial course of vocational training. After all, this is a matter that we have discussed several times during this parliamentary term. As Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned, we had a good discussion and a very broad agreement on that matter 1⁄2-2 years ago. After all, some time has passed, but I agree with the joy that there has now finally been support for implementing it. There are today too many people with disabilities who do not have a qualification or are in the process of training. Among other things: Based on studies carried out by VIVE, the Central Disability Council has been able to analyse the educational situation of people with disabilities, and not surprisingly the new figures also show that there are generally far fewer people with disabilities who have a competence-giving education than people without a disability, and if we look at people with a wide disability, then it actually looks really bad. If you go down and look at the different age levels, you can see that for the group between 26 and 30 years, 49 per cent had. in 2016 by people with disabilities a competence-giving education. The figure was 80% if you didn't have a disability. If you go down and look at the vintage from 21-25 years, it looks even worse. Indeed, there were twice as many people without a disability who had a qualification than people with disabilities. In other words, there are very large differences, and what I think is the worst thing in this context is that things are going the wrong way. We can simply see that when we compare with the figures back in 2011. A number of studies and surveys of the figures have been carried out in the period 2011-2015, where you see a marked drop in the number of young people taking a qualification, i.e. young people with a disability, and it has not immediately improved since. That's a very good suggestion. On the other hand, in the Enhedslisten we are not entirely happy with the proposal to increase the so-called free amount, which should make it more attractive for young people to have more work while they are studying. We have looked carefully at the answers to the questions, both from the students' organisations and from the professional organisations in the field, the academics, the Magistrates, and we therefore agree with the answers given by the organisations concerned. We do not think it is the right way to go about introducing incentives to work anymore. There are rapporteurs who have said that a full-time study has more than 40 hours' duration. We think it would have been better if money had been spent on the sugar sector, for example. deduction of expenditure on teaching materials or discount schemes on transport, such as: The Joint Council of Danish Students has been mentioned. I have had the pleasure of sitting on the Committee on the Rules of Procedure for the last three years, when we have discussed procedures and working methods in the Danish Parliament. One of the things that has actually been widely agreed has been that, as a starting point, it makes very good sense that there is a possibility in the legislative proposals we are considering that the parties can vote in favour of the proposals that they think are good, while they can abstain from voting in favour of the proposals that they do not think are good. We can always discuss it, and I am not supposed to say here that this is an overall proposal. That would be to go completely beyond the target when there are two proposals in the same field. So that's not where I am. With regard to joint proposals, we have seen something quite different in character from this. Nevertheless, I think it would be sensible for the Minister to open up the possibility of splitting the bill. I would suggest during the course of the discussion that we should have a breakdown based on the fact that Enhedslisten can therefore warmly endorse the proposal for disability allowances in vocational training, while, as I have said, we are not enthusiastic about raising the free amount. So a call to the Minister to respond to our requests for a division of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170811	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, next in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170818	Thank you. Bill L 182 is a consequence of the fact that the association has agreed with itself to grant a supplementary grant to vocational training students who have a disability. As several speakers have also said, it is a form of equality because there is already a similar system when you take higher education. This is in recognition of the fact that having a disability is associated with costs that you do not have when you do not have a disability. So harmonization, adjustment: that is what is the password for understanding the bill, and all of it has as its ultimate purpose that people with a disability have a higher participation in employment with the economic opportunities it offers and with the opportunities for personal development which it also offers to have a job. These are all very sensible ideas on which we in the Liberal Alliance welcome agreement and on which we naturally support them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170944	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312170949	One of the things we are talking about today relates to su and a greater amount of free money and then, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned, compensation for young people with physical and mental disabilities. One of the things that made a great deal of impression on me when I studied in England was the marked difference between studying, and that there was virtually no scholarships for studies of Bachelor's degree level and that is what is called government grant in England. In fact, this meant that only young people with rich parents had the opportunity to have a higher education. When I was standing there at 24, it actually shocked me. I was very surprised because I was not used to it at all; from what it was like in Denmark. So this meant that I came to appreciate very much the Danish model, which we have at home with su. After all, it helps to offset social divisions and to give young people with parents who do not have long education an opportunity to choose as freely as others. In the alternative, we believe that we should have free and equal opportunities to take up education, and that is why we support the proposal put forward today by the Minister for Education and Research. Today's 73 percent. of all the country's students a student job, and in addition to supplementing financially to the students' finances and the opportunity to pay rent etc. It is also a way to use your knowledge from the studies in practice and to establish a link with the labour market. I myself have worked alongside my studies, and my experience is that getting a little away from the books and out into the real world is actually very good, and it is also a forming element where you mature and prepare for life after the studies. In general terms, we think that su is a relatively low performance, and that is why we think it is natural to supplement work alongside it. We are also aware that there may be problems, as has also been pointed out in the consultations. Both the Danish Magister Association and the academics find it problematic if it shifts the balance between study time and jobs. So we must, of course, be careful that we do not contribute to increasing stress among students. The last part of the proposal is about young people with physical and mental disabilities, who must be compensated financially for not being able to take up a job, and we are very positive about that. Like the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten, we are also aware that there are still problems in relation to young people and the training of young people with disabilities, and we will continue to look at this. Although we are well aware that the first part, which deals with the free payment, is not only positive but can also push a little in the wrong direction, we support the whole proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171257	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171305	Thank you. As SFs, we always have the goal, when discussing education policy, that all young people, no matter where they come from and whatever their physical or mental potential, must have good conditions for taking an education, because education makes free. There has been a clear bias in the way that we have helped students and students with physical and mental disabilities so far, and I also think that we can do better after today in that you have been able to get a disability allowance when you went to higher education, but not when you went to vocational training. Down in the Common Assembly we have spent the whole day discussing how we can ensure that everyone gets an education in Denmark, and one of the ways to do that is that, if you have a physical or mental disability, you can be compensated financially so that you can make it run around at home, so that it is certainly not the economy that pushes you out of education. There are many other things you can do. We have had a lot of good debates on this in this Chamber, and I hope that after the next elections we will not be able to achieve much more before a parliamentary election........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But now we have managed to get this disability supplement through on vocational training, and it is really the expression of a classic political compromise. It was really important to the SF, it's something we've been fighting for too long. The government played out in the Finance Act with a proposal to increase the free amount so that it could be allowed to work more alongside without being punished in the su. It wasn't very important for SF. We would also have liked to spend the money differently, and we have said so several times. We also read the expressions of concern that are among the consultation responses, such as: The aim is to improve the balance between working life and study life. And when you don't have full-time studies in many places, even if it's a requirement that you have it, what happens after this proposal? So this is something we want to keep an eye on, but to be completely honest it was a war cost, a negotiation cost that for SF was to live with when what we could get through was quite a big financial aid for pupils with disabilities in vocational training. So we think this is a good compromise and that is why we support the whole proposal. There are still some things you can do and some of them I will already mention briefly for pupils with disabilities. There are some of the consultation responses that express quite a lot of concern about the criteria for obtaining this disability supplement, i.e. that it is quite difficult and that it is also a little unmanageable. It mentions Danish Disability Organizations. We have actually promised each other in the circle that we will look further, so we must have done that, and I hope that more people feel that they can get the help they need. Finally, both in vocational training and in many other studies, we have the problem that pupils with disabilities are left to themselves when they enter internship. They are experiencing quite a marked reduction in income because they cannot work as much when they are internship, and then they go down in pay. So we need to solve this not only in vocational training but also in other education. But this is a good place to start, and SF backs up on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171636	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. And then we have actually reached the Minister for Education and Research, who with an easy walk is on his way to the platform with broad support in the Danish Parliament for this bill, so it's easy to be a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171654	Easy and easy, I don't know. But it is a pleasure to be a minister and again stand here and, as Mr. Marcus Knuth also said, have broad support. I would like to say very briefly that the draft law follows up our agreement in the conciliation circle to introduce supplementary grants for pupils in vocational training courses with a disability allowance. And I am glad that, with this agreement, we are now giving vocational training students the opportunity to receive a supplement to the ordinary Su-Scholarship when they have a disability which imposes considerable restrictions on the ability to have a job alongside the training. With this bill, we are extending the system we already know from higher education to include vocational training. I think it's amazing that we can do this. We have set a supplement of DKK 5,500. a month, an amount which actually exceeds what their fellow students may earn next to the study. So what we're aiming at with this is to equate them with their fellow students who can make money next to, which they can't do because of the reduction in function. In addition, it is also gratifying that with this bill we can give the trainees the opportunity to earn more in addition to their studies by increasing the free amount by DKK 1,000. per month. We give them more freedom and flexibility than they have today and we ensure that those who can and will work more alongside their education have better opportunities for it without having to pay back parts of their diet. Both elements of the draft law benefit those seeking training, and I am proud that we can agree on this and that we agreed in the conciliation circle. I would like to make a few comments on the questions that have been asked. There was a specific question from the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten about the willingness to divide the proposal. I do not think we should divide it up, because I think that the two elements are very close to each other, as they are both about work next to the studies. We give the one group which, due to disability, has no opportunity to work alongside, a supplement of DKK 5,500. We also have the opportunity to do so on a monthly basis, and the other group which has the opportunity to work alongside, and perhaps would like to work more than they do today. That's why I actually think they're connected. I still hope that Enhedslisten will seriously consider voting for it, because I think it is a very, very good proposal. There was also a question from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl on whether there is more we can do, and that was Mr. Jacob Mark also mentioned. I believe that we can, and that is why we have also made it clear, as a consequence of the previous parliamentary resolution to which reference was made, and the discussion in the conciliation circle with the group of experts which we have set up and which will have to look at it here, that they must also look at what action is being taken on the educational tendency of people with a disability. I hope that, in the light of this, we can have a concrete basis for continuing the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171945	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Malou Lunderød, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312171949	Thank you. I just want to hear from the Minister, since we are now talking about su and we are also raising this amount of free money together, whether the Minister can guarantee that the Left will not use this as a springboard after an election to weaken the general su.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172008	What we have said in the Left is that we would like to have a discussion about it, and we would do so on a proper professional basis, and that is why we have asked a group of experts to look properly at what the Su does about the educational propensity of all groups of students I mentioned before, including students with a disability. So that is the work we will be waiting for, and then I hope that we can have a joint discussion on it, depending on what that expert group brings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172035	Mrs. Malou Wonderful.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172037	Thank you. So I would just like to ask: is there generally the position in the Left that the sugar should be lower than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172045	No, there is no general position in the Left on that. There is a general position in the Left that we should always look at how to fasten everything together in the best possible way, and that is why we have asked a group of experts to look at this, because we have to remember that the su is set in the world to ensure that we have an educational propensity and a high level of implementation, because we have an ambition that more than 50%. In the case of the 30-year-olds, higher education is to be provided, and that is what the su has to support around. There we have then asked the expert group, which consists of both economists and sociologists, to look at the context of it. The work has never really been done properly, i.e. to find out what the su has of impact on it. That is the work that I look forward to receiving the results of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172122	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and no more have asked for the floor, so the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172137	The debate is open. And that is what the Secretary of State is proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172157	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposers want to oblige the government to work to implement a number of proposals for more openness in the Council. The Enhedslisten, with this resolution, is really opening doors because, like the rest of the Folketing, the government is of course in favour of openness, whether in Denmark or in the EU. In this sense, Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution is really little more than formalising the great and committed effort that Denmark is already making. And many improvements have already been made in the area of openness in the European Union in recent years. We have, among other things. In addition to this, the European Union will continue to play a leading role in the development of its relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the countries of But there is still room for improvement. This is particularly true in relation to the EU legislative process and the work of the Council. We must take advantage of the opportunities to increase transparency in the processes, we must ensure that more documents are automatically laid out in public and we must find solutions that increase democratic control. Fortunately, we are not the only ones who want more openness in the Council. In fact, the pressure exerted by the national parliaments in particular has borne fruit. In concrete terms, this has meant that there are now a number of concrete proposals on increasing openness in the Council. These proposals are now under discussion in the Council, and it goes without saying that Denmark has a very ambitious line and plays a very active role in the discussions. We work together with a small circle of like-minded hard-headed and determined for greater openness. I do not want to hide the fact that it is difficult, partly because many are not enthusiastic, partly because a smaller circle of countries actively opposes openness. Let me specifically highlight three of the central priorities of the government. Firstly, we need to increase transparency about the overall legislative work in the Council. This applies above all to openness in the positions of the Member States and greater openness in the negotiations between the Council and the European Parliament. Secondly, far more Council documents must be automatically placed before the public on the Internet from the outset. Thirdly, we need to bring about changes that can increase democratic control over legislative work. The Council must apply far more and more systematically procedures similar to those applied in the European Parliament. This applies, for example, to how the Council adopts its negotiating position vis-à-vis the European Parliament. In other words, there is no doubt that we need more openness in a number of key areas. At the same time, however, it is essential for the government that the solutions that we find work in practice as well and that they take account of the effectiveness of the Council's work. This means that there will also be a need in the future for genuine negotiations to take place in a confidential space. We know this too in the Danish Parliament, where for example. The conciliation negotiations shall take place behind closed doors. The government is working actively and purposefully to increase the transparency of the Council's work in the legislative process, and I both hope and believe that we can achieve a good result. However, as I said before, I do not want to hide the fact that these are difficult negotiations, nor is it a secret that there are parts of the proposals from the national parliaments to which the government has certain reservations and which we also believe will be difficult in practice to implement. All in all, however, there are many good elements in the resolution and the letter from the national parliaments. That is why the government basically welcomes this and I believe that with some minor adjustments in the work of the committee we will be able to reach where the government will be able to vote in favour of the proposal at second reading. The most important thing is that together we can agree on a balanced approach to where Denmark must put its strength, so that we can achieve real results for increased openness in the European Union. Specifically, we would like to see our initial focus, based on the letter from the national parliaments, on the proposals for greater openness in the Council that are already being negotiated and where it is realistic to make progress. Denmark, together with our like-minded people, has a real chance of creating greater openness about the Council's work, but that is uphill in the negotiations, and that requires that we do not do the best for the good's enemy. We need to prioritize and use our forces where the opportunities for greater openness are greatest and, as in all other negotiations in the EU, the government will therefore manage the Danish line in the way that in practice offers the best chance of achieving concrete and workable results. At the same time, we will pursue a balanced approach that ensures both openness, democratic control and efficiency in legislative work. The government is looking forward to the committee reading and we hope that we can end up with a result which the government and a broad majority in the Folketing will be able to support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172648	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172650	Thank you. I also very much hope that we will be able to end up in a situation where we stand as a united Parliament, which can agree to send the Danish Government off with full support to fight for more openness, because that is actually what has actually been done in the Netherlands, which we also refer to in the comments here. So, fortunately, what has happened is that the Dutch House of Commons has taken the initiative to bring together a large number of national parliaments for a call for more openness. We have supported this in the Parliament's Committee on Europe, and it is obvious that the Danish Government will also have the support of the Danish Parliament to support the Dutch proposal. So I hope we can end up together. But just to understand the position of the government: is it the case that the government is backing the Dutch Government in the negotiations that are going on in Parliament right now, and what are the parts of this proposal that the Danish Government does not think are good?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172755	We work with like-minded countries. This is the line that we always put on the Danish side. Now I will do it today that I will listen to the debate on the proposal and not, in the first place, enter into a more detailed discussion on where it is that we think something is being done that is counterproductive or perhaps counterproductive. I have tried to highlight this and I have also said a little about what it is that we do not put so much emphasis on where it is that we should focus, also in order to achieve realistic, workable results that balance the concerns of democratic control, openness and so on. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172839	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172841	Well, it is good to hear that the Minister will listen to the debate and will be constructive in the work of the committee. And then I very much hope that we can come to an agreement. It is a bit difficult, the devil is sometimes in the detail, but I hope that we can get a situation where we can end up with a united Parliament giving the Danish Government a strong mandate to fight for openness, because that is really, really needed, unfortunately, in the situation we are in today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172912	As I said, I share the ambition, as I said in my opening speech. I believe it can be done with some adjustments in relation to what is currently in place, in fact, to bring together a very broad majority in the Folketing. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172927	Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and it is Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312172943	Thank you for the floor, President, and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this proposal in order to force the debate into the Parliamentary Chamber. I would like to start by saying quite unequivocally that we basically support all the initiatives that Enhedslisten has, of course, written in this motion for a resolution, but which we ourselves have actually helped to sign on behalf of the Danish Parliament. The Socialist Erik Christensen has done so as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. And we are also fully committed to all four specific measures aimed at increasing transparency in the work of the Council. In the same way, our Head of Delegation in the European Parliament, Jeppe Kofod, in his capacity as head of the special committee on taxation, has also criticized the secrecy of the Council, including the fact that it is even possible for countries to block in secret. In other words, it is fair enough if a country ends up using the right of veto that one has on particular issues, but then it should not be possible to do so in secret. In fact, we also think that this resolution takes into account a number of these things. On the other hand, we also think it is important that we, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen mentioned, a little like the Dutch Parliament gets together a completely unanimous Parliament on this issue as far as possible. This also applies, of course, to the government, and I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs' announcement on the platform today is that during the committee's work it is willing to look at whether the government can also agree, with some adjustments, to a report on the motion for a resolution or something else in this context. Because we believe that this will actually be the strongest. Of course, there must be a balance between the fact that, on the one hand, there is as much openness about the legislative process as possible and, on the other hand, there must also be a little bit of life strap in order for governments to negotiate with each other. And hopefully we can find that balance together during the committee procedure in an interaction between Parliament and the government. So just to sum up: we basically support the proposal from the Enhedslisten, but we also support the Minister for Foreign Affairs's wish that a common basis for government and parliament can be found in this matter during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173213	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173230	Thank you. The Danish People's Party basically supports all initiatives that can create more transparency in the legislative process in the European Union. Of course, we would like to see such a more fundamental reform of the way in which decisions are made, for example. by granting the national parliaments the right of initiative and the possibility of effectively stopping EU legislation through a red card which the European Commission did not have the opportunity to ignore. This would ensure the greatest possible democratic legitimacy behind decisions taken in the European Union. The democratic legitimacy of the European countries does not exist either in the Council, the Commission or the European Parliament, but only in the national parliaments, which today play a very modest role in the creation of EU legislation. We therefore prefer a fundamental reform of the decision-making powers of the European Union, but we naturally support any steps that go in the right direction. And it is undeniable that the negotiations under the auspices of the Council, COREPER and the trialogue negotiations are among the most obscure parts of the EU's decision-making process. In Denmark, we have a European committee to mandate the government for forthcoming negotiations, but this is by no means a system known in other EU countries. Thus the decisions taken by governments and officials in the context of negotiations under the auspices of the Council are surrounded by great secrecy, a lack of democratic insight, control and influence. It is vitally important that something is done about this. The 26 national parliaments have given the spotlight to precisely the cover-up of the Council's deliberations through the representations made in December last year. It is positive that these countries have now chosen to take up the gauntlet, and it is of course also very positive that it seems that we can go a very long way along the road today, with the support of the government and the Social Democrats for the resolution. This proposal from the Enhedslisten should in fact be supported by all the parties of the Danish Parliament, all the time that the parties of the Danish Parliament have agreed to the request from the Dutch Second Chamber. In any case, I can say that the proposal naturally meets the support of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173452	There are no requests for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173501	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising an important debate. We have had a great deal of resolution from the Enhedslisten on EU issues recently, and one could almost hope that this means that Enhedslisten has abandoned its opposition to the European Union and has got used to the idea that it has come enough to stay and that then we should try together to make the European Union as sensible as possible. The proposal here is that you want more open doors, you might say, in European cooperation. There you kick in a little bit to use the same image, an open door, because there is already a work that is well under way, to create even more openness in the EU system than there is today. That is why I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we are fundamentally positive about the intentions of the motion for a resolution, but some of the details will have to be worked on in committee. There are clarifications and adjustments which the Foreign Minister also mentioned, which we must continue to work on in committee, but are we not going to reach each other? I would also like to sign up to the Social Democratic Party for the things that were said about us having to take what has come from the 26 parliaments, that is to say the cooperation in COSAC, to us, but of course it needs to be cut in a way so that it is also something that we can count on to gain the support of the other countries. So in these few words I would just like to thank Enhedslisten for having raised this debate and I very much hope that we can reach each other in committee work. It would be nice if we could also stand together every once in a while and not always have to fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173704	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173708	Well, thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for his fine words. However, speaking of openness, the rapporteur could not lift the veil a little over what adjustments are being made, so it has now been said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that a number of adjustments are being made. What is the position of the Left in relation to what adjustments are being made? For this is really a further development of what we have already done in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe; there we stood together to support the call for openness from the national parliaments. This proposal is thought of as a "what can one say a backlash to the Danish government before it goes down into the circle of EU countries and raises the same demand? So we have in fact all agreed in the Committee on European Affairs once to support this content. So what is it that the Left believes needs to be adjusted? I think that might be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173812	I think we should take it in committee, that is not a big deal, and I am sure that we will reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173818	The questioner, for follow-up, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173827	It is clear that, of course, I am extremely excited about it, and I hope that it is really not a big deal. Because I think it would be very good for us to follow up on the consensus that exists in the Committee on European Affairs to support, in reality, the government's ability to take up the same thing in the government. I think it would be really strong to be able to do it in reality, shoulder to shoulder. There is always an opportunity for the devil to be in the detail, but let us believe in the best and then hope that it is not great things that separate us so that we can come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173901	But I can only agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173904	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312173912	Thank you for that, President. With motion for a resolution (Doc. B 88 wants the proposers to oblige the government to work to implement a number of proposals for more openness in the Council and, as the Foreign Minister has already said, this is an idea that must be sympathetic to in principle. Fortunately, the Council is working more openly today than it did in the past, but it would also be strange if Parliament did not have sympathy for some ideas, which it has in fact indirectly signed up to through the Committee on European Affairs, from the 26 countries which support the COSAC declaration. We do not believe that the motion for a resolution is quite quite so clever and complete in exactly the form it has been put forward, but I am sure that in the committee procedure itself we can come to a broader consensus and discuss things. Of course, the important thing for us is that there is some sort of balance between openness and a necessary respect for confidentiality, and of course also that there is some realism in what we end up adopting. So I look forward to the committee reading, in which I have the expectation that there will be a broad circle of parties that can speak and adjust and clarify the resolution here, so that it can be adopted by a broad circle of parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174055	There is a question from Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174057	Thank you. It's again because I'm so curious. It is said that we must strike a balance between openness and then the opportunity to work in the Council. That sounds fine, but sometimes the devil is in the detail, and that is why I would like to hear about the same thing that I heard the Left about, namely what the Liberal Alliance thinks you have to change before you can back this up. When I ask, it is because, in fact, with this proposal, we are building on an agreement that we have already had in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, and it is at least the view of the Enhedslisten that we there struck a fine balance. I also take the view of the other parties, since we were united in supporting the call for openness in relation to national parliaments. So if we have hit the balance once again, do we not hit it again if we shoot with the left-hand leg I say as the left-hand foot and have it sent off to the governments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174201	I cannot tell you where the negotiations are going to end, but there is no doubt that we can improve the system of how documents are to be published and where they can be found. The last word is probably not said about how to classify documents and how countries publish their positions before the negotiations. As I said, this is not something we have negotiated, but there are a number of areas where there is room for improvement, and we must then talk about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174241	Is there anything else from the questioner? We're gonna have to press it. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174245	I thought I had the pressure. I need a stronger finger. That is fine, and I also very much hope that we can reach an agreement. When I say that, it is a little bit about the debate on openness. Now we are in the open hall and we have a debate on openness, but we cannot really know what needs to be changed since we finally reached an agreement in the European Parliament Committee. It will then take place in committee and in fact behind closed doors. It is fair that you cannot uncover it, but in reality it could be very good for the opportunity to have a good debate about this, that you were ready to qualify and classify. I hope that we can reach agreement, and I would also say that I hope that this is a real wish of the parties, otherwise there is a danger that in the open debate we will not get the prune on the counter, and then we will be behind closed doors, and then the debate on openness will suddenly be closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174348	I think this conversation is an example of how you can talk and talk towards each other, but I do not think it is fair that you should go into too much detail about where the consensus should end. It is also clear that in connection with the work of the Danish Parliament we have a very good website where you can find everything you need from documents for legal processing etc. There are plenty of such things as systematisation and transparency that you can work with and, as I also said, there is the question of how much the public can access and how much the public cannot see. All these things, I think, certainly there is room for discussion, and that is why I am confident about the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174430	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174437	Thank you. We are discussing a motion for a resolution on whether the Folketing should take seriously the work that has been done in the Committee on European Affairs. One can say that it should be running in an open door, because of course, when the Parliamentary Committee on Europe writes it in this letter, it must actually also bring attention to the ministry, so the minister thinks that they will follow what the Folketing wants. So, all in all, this should be such a small proposal, where you think: okay, should we discuss this too? After all, we have had good discussions in committee, and that is not just something that has been decided overnight. There have been a number of meetings under the auspices of COSAC, i.e. the framework under which the national parliaments cooperate, where I myself have been present, and where there has just been a discussion about how we can become more actively involved in the work. This requires transparency, but unfortunately it has to be pointed out that the Council is the element of EU cooperation that is not transparent. There are things listed here from the letter that we Members of Parliament have signed, and I hope to the extent that we still agree with the content, just as we were in committee when we chose to put the signature of the Folketing on it. I also think it is a work which should underpin the very, very clear criticism that has come from the EU Ombudsman in this area, from the work of the Council and the Council. Personally, I have tried to gain insight into some minutes about how Denmark acts in some Council working groups, without that being possible. So, of course, the alternative supports this motion for a resolution, just as we have actively participated in the work of the Committee on European Affairs with this letter, and we look forward to it being reaffirmed by the Committee on European Affairs when it comes to dealing with it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174643	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see a radical rapporteur in the Chamber, so that is why we move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174700	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution which, of course, concerns an extremely central issue of European cooperation. It is not a new discussion; it has been running for the last 25 years, as I remember at least. In fact, it was part of the national compromise that the then government should work for more openness and democracy in the European Union. EARTH was called Å-N-D • Openness, proximity and democracy was the slogan that people worked for. So it is, if I may say so, a debate that has been running and it is important. This has a lot to do with the fact that the Council of Ministers is very much working on things similar to legislative work like this Parliament. We're not there, and we're not going there. It is still the nation states that work together in the EU. We are adopting very far-reaching resolutions which, if I may say so, will subsequently have to be implemented by law for some; for others, these are regulations where it is direct law. However, these are very far-reaching decisions that go in and affect the legal, political and organisational systems of the Member States. That is why it is reasonable to demand that there are the same requirements for openness as there are here in the Folketing, for example, where we have opened up a great deal in recent years about committee work, for example. Not everyone thinks that it is always an advantage, but I think it is, anyway, because it may mean that citizens can keep up with transparency to a greater extent. After all, this is also what has been going on in the European Union and which one mentioned, the Ombudsman of the European Union has on several occasions criticised the lack of transparency and has, like a so-called strategic study of the lack of transparency. So she's very, very committed to this work. So again, thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. Whether we can land with a joint report I hope we can agree on that. After all, we have worked a lot together on these matters in the Parliament's Committee on Europe, and we will certainly be very constructive in it. I am sure that it will give Denmark a strong voice. But it is clear that there must of course be substance behind what must be the content behind what must be a certain force behind the demands we make about openness in the European Union. But I have no doubt about that even after today's debate will be possible, so thank you for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312174957	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see a conservative rapporteur in the Chamber either, so we move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312175015	Thank you. Closeness in the European Union is a huge problem, and if you are in doubt, you can look at the current debate we have had in recent days about the EU blacklisting of tax havens or the lack of them. It takes place behind closed doors without public access and for the press. The proposal for the updated list, which was adopted today by the Finance Ministers, has been prepared by a working group behind closed doors. Yesterday, when we discussed the updated list in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, we were not allowed to mention the names of the countries on the list and we had just got it 15 hours before the start of the committee meeting. After all, it is absurd to have a population and a public who will not be allowed into the process until it is too late and before everything is decided. After all, the Enhedslisten is not alone in criticising the secrecy and lack of transparency in the European Union. This can be clearly heard from the feedback that has come from the parties of the Folketing and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs today. As Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen also mentioned, the EU's own Ombudsman has on several occasions criticised the EU for being too closed. In addition, there is a process that has also been discussed today, when a number of national parliaments, namely 26 national parliaments in the European Union, have pressed for more openness in the EU system. After all, this is a work which we in the European Parliament Committee have also supported, and we have supported the initiative that has been taken in the Dutch Parliament to work for more openness in the Council. After all, EU ministers from the various Member States take a number of very far-reaching and important decisions for ordinary people in Denmark and in the other EU countries. We on the Enhedslisten feel that it is perfectly natural to ensure that the Danish Government supports these initiatives and in fact gets the support of the Danish Parliament to do so, so that there is a strong commitment in the negotiations to demand more openness in the European Union. On 22 February 2018, the House of Commons of the Dutch Parliament decided unanimously to call on the Dutch Government to ensure that the four proposals from the 26 national parliaments are discussed at a forthcoming formal EU summit and that the Dutch Government actively advocates the adoption of the proposals put forward by the national parliaments. We believe that it is obvious from the Enhedslisten that the Danish Government supports the Dutch Government's proposals and that we in Denmark are also working to ensure that the proposals are implemented. It is absolutely essential that we bring more documents into the light so that we can have open and democratic discussions about the important decisions that are being taken in the European Union. We need both as parliamentary politicians and as public opinion and press to have access to the discussions that are taking place, so that we have as much openness as possible, with respect, of course, for decisions to be made. The Dutch House of Commons proposal will not solve all the problems of lack of transparency in the European Union, but it will be an important step in the right direction. That is why we in the Danish Parliament should instruct the Danish Government to work to ensure that it is implemented as soon as possible. I know, as sir. Holger K. Nielsen said that this debate is not new. This is something that has been fought for for a very long time, but nevertheless it does make it important that we hope to be able to stand together as a Danish Parliament, which can give the Danish Government a clear mandate to go to the negotiations that are then already going on, as we could hear from the Foreign Minister, and stand firm and strong in the fight for openness. I hope that we can have a very good committee work where we can reach agreement on really sticking to what we have already agreed in the Parliament's Committee on Europe in relation to the demands of the national parliaments. I would like to thank you for the many positive commitments that have been made by all the parties present in relation to the proposal. It is wonderful and I very much hope that we can reach a broad consensus on being united in the fight for openness in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312175511	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Nikolaj Villumsen You're welcome). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312175525	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Flemming Møller Mortensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312175545	Thank you for that, President. After all, we have to consider that when patients enter a public hospital in Denmark, their treatment, care and care are entirely dependent on the principles, the basic idea and the knowledge underlying care, treatment and care being collected with the background of what is good practice and what works. That's why this bill is a really good bill. Because it is about how it is that in the future we can also ensure that the framework for health research in Denmark will have an even better platform, an even better condition for the very fact that we have to make use of knowledge, and that knowledge is also very much related to what the individual patients are exposed to today. It should therefore be understood that today's treatment at the hospital is based on the knowledge and data collected in the past and that the good treatment and improved conditions of the future are largely based on what is collected from knowledge and health data today. What is the main thrust of the draft law here is to ensure that a better framework is created and that safety is built into health research. It is now being demanded that scientific assessments of the health data science research projects be brought together and that frameworks be set up to ensure both patients and research. It is also the case that competence in relation to who is to approve the transmission of health record data for research, statistics and planning purposes is shifted from what is today called the Board of Patient Safety and to the Regional Councils, who are familiar with the setup in each region, including regional scientific committees. What has been respected with the bill is to rationalise things, to make things even more flexible, and we in the Socialist Group think this is good in every way, as long as security and security are encamped in what is the new framework. We also like the fact that the draft law provides a framework for how the time limit should be in relation to the procedure. Because we know that research is also very much a matter of wanting some momentum, and it is clear that if you have to wait for the permits, things can come to a standstill unnecessarily. The last and fourth elements of the bill, as presented here by the government, are that the individual managements at the individual clinical treatment sites are now being given the opportunity to allow authorised health professionals to access the personal and medical records needed to build up the research which is thus approved by the regional scientific committees. We in the Socialist Group believe that this paves the way in the right direction. We in the Danish Parliament bear an incredible responsibility for constantly creating the best possible framework, as I said, not only for the patients and the treatment we must ensure in the near future that Danish patients are offered, but also into the future. And then there is also a special responsibility on us as such, a rich welfare nation, as Denmark is, for us to have researched to the delight of the entire population of the world and also those societies in the world that do not have the resources, the opportunities and the data systems and the accumulated data that we actually have in Denmark and which we rightly pride ourselves on. Social democracy supports the bill as it has been put forward here. After all, we have also noted that the consultation answers are generally very positive in relation to what are the lines of the draft law. Apart from the fact that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, I must say that so does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180016	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180024	Thank you very much. Security and trust: It almost sounds like a slogan, but that's what it's all about here. This bill must help ensure the safety and confidence of citizens in health research. The draft law aims to provide a better framework for research into health record information by ensuring a more effective procedure for accessing this information for research, statistics and planning purposes. Today it is the case that patients are protected by a committee law and the purpose of the law is to protect patients from unnecessary harm if they are part of a drug trial. If a study is considered to be a drug trial, the study must be notified to the Danish Medicines Agency and to the ethics committees, after which you check whether it is ethically justified. So it also makes sense that other attempts in this way have the opportunity to be evaluated. We must ensure good data retention and a safe approach when it comes to either statistics or research. However, we must also be able to guarantee people that their data is not misused, as well as to ensure their anonymity when information is withdrawn. So, of course, these are some of the things I would like to hear the Minister guarantee that happens with this proposal. Another bone in this bill is that the competences to pass on patient information from the Board of Patient Safety to the Regional Councils will be brought together, assuming that competence will be placed in the secretariats of the Regional Scientific Committees. This is thought to reduce the number of different bodies to which the researchers are addressing. But we're not quite comfortable with that idea. First of all, we do not quite see that it reduces the number of agencies when you go from one to five, and at the same time it says that you are assuming. I would also like to ask the Minister how they have thought this into health reform. Even when you read the Danish Regions and the individual regions' consultation responses, you can see that they do not think it is appropriate to shift competence. So that is also some of the things I would like to ask about. In relation to the consent part, we are in the Danish People's Party, where we have always stood. We believe that consent should be given, as some also mention, to metaconsciousness in order to gain insight into purely private matters and other confidential information from patient records. The last element is the possibility for management at treatment sites to allow authorised health care professionals to obtain health record information if it has been approved by the various bodies. Here it is important that it is only for the specific research project and not for other information. So we have some questions about the bill from the Danish People's Party, so that we can live up to the security and trust that is written about the bill to secure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180339	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180348	Thank you, President. The future is now, we must forward into it, and in the Left we welcome the future. We live in a time when data and information are flowing more and more, where we exchange data and information across, and where data and information are very much driving the development. Using data, we can predict patterns, detect new diseases, prevent, engage in earlier and target treatment, and we can equip patients for better treatment. Fagre new world has become everyday: new opportunities, new obligations, new risks of misuse of Danes' valuable data. For it is, and remains, a balancing approach between ensuring integrity and strict control of access to sensitive data on the one hand and opening up the bag on the other, so that tomorrow we also have the opportunity to run research and development to the benefit of patients. The bill we are dealing with today addresses the difficult balancing process, which is to ensure that personal data are stored and used securely and with respect for the privacy of the individual, while allowing researchers to use the data tools that can help ensure better prevention for future citizens and better and more targeted treatment for future patients. Most people are willing to share their data for the good of the community, and it is a valuable gift to give to the community to share their own data. The code words are security, trust and support. We must not put popular support at risk, and that is why today's draft law is an important legislative proposal. The bill contains four elements which make the processes of the researchers flexible in various ways and make the data processing safer for patients. Our use of data is very much about ethics, which is why scientific assessments are an important instrument when assessing access to data. Research using Danes' health data must be for the good of the community, but it must not become a bureaucratic monster for researchers to gain access. The bill reduces the number of institutions to be contacted by researchers when they want access to health record information. Competence is transferred from the Board of Patient Safety to the secretariats of the regional scientific committees. If a research project is not covered by the Committee Act, the Board of Patient Safety shall continue to approve the disclosure of information. Whether you're a scientist, a patient or just in line at the supermarket to buy a litre of milk, yes, waiting is a true killer. Quick access to data is a competitive parameter in our globalised world. Therefore, it makes good sense to set a ceiling of 35 days on how long the case may take when a researcher applies for access to health record data. Today there is no time limit regulated by law, and the purpose of introducing one now is, of course, to contribute to a faster and more flexible procedure. Last but not least, the framework for clinical research is being improved with the bill here. The management of a given place of treatment or the data controller authority for the respective health record information may authorise persons employed in the health service to obtain data for specific research, provided that an authorisation under the Committee Act or the Secretariat of a Regional Scientific Committee has been granted for the transmission of the information. The bill is a consequence of the government's proposal, • Health in the future • Responsible use of data for the benefit of the patient, from June last year. On the basis of the data project, in June 2018 all parties of the Folketing concluded an agreement on better use of data, and this is a strong common starting point which builds on the seven principles of modern and safe use of health data that we agreed on back in February 2017. There should be no doubt that the data should follow the patient, so whether you are a patient of a general practitioner or a hospital, data are included. Nor should there be any doubt that in the health care sector personal data should be taken care of in safe environments. The Left can support the bill as put forward, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that the bill is also supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180800	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312180810	Thank you for that, President. L 193, which is being discussed here today, concerns the strengthening of citizens' security and confidence in health research. The intention is to ensure the same level of protection for sensitive dry data as re-mappings derived from tissues as there are with so-called wet data, i.e. tissue material. In the Enhedslisten, we support the adaptation of legislation in line with technological developments, so as to ensure maximum safety for citizens in dealing with their health data. The draft law includes four elements: requirements for scientific assessment of health data science research projects; transfer of the approval of research access to health record information from the Patient Safety Agency to the Scientific Committee System; introduction of a 35-day time limit for the processing of applications for the approval of the transmission of health record data for research projects of major societal interest, statistics or planning; and, finally, the introduction of the possibility for management at the place of treatment or the data controller health authority to allow authorised health care professionals to obtain patient information for the purposes of approved research projects and for technical assistance to be provided in connection with the acquisition. We welcome the introduction of a scientific assessment of scientific research projects in the field of health. However, we agree with the concern of the Medical Association in relation to the unclear definition of which research projects are to be subject to a real scientific ethics committee assessment. It is not clear from the draft law whether the risk of secondary findings, which may result in stigmatisation, will result in an assessment of a scientific ethics committee. It would be desirable to define more clearly which criteria are used for a scientific-sethical committee assessment. This is an issue that we will pursue in committee. We can also support the transfer of regional scientific committees from the Board of Patient Safety. We may, however, have a concern as to whether there are sufficient resources to carry out the task of the Scientific Committees and will try to clarify it in committee to ensure that the regions are compensated for any additional costs that may result from this. In order to reduce the collegial importance of the approval of other doctors' projects by doctors in the committee system, consideration should be given, in addition, to strengthening the weight of laymen in the committee system, while at the same time providing personal data protection and data processing skills. Finally, in the Enhedslisten we find it a pity that the bill does not clarify clear rules for consent, especially because the proposal is about citizens' safety and confidence in health research, because the vast majority of citizens would like to give their consent to research. In fact, they have full confidence in the health services, admittedly a trust that has sometimes had little difficulty in living up to, but yet they would like to pass on data for the sake of research and the Community's best and thus contribute to improving the general health of the population. They just want to be asked first. Therefore, it would have been obvious to include the possibility of meta-consciousness proposed by the Ethics Council back in 2015 because confidence is created primarily by involving citizens in the decision-making process, thereby ensuring that they know what their health data is used for when researching. We will continue to work for the introduction of a model of consent, such as: the proposal from the Ethical Council. All in all, we see the proposal as a step forward which we support and, as I said, we will try to get answers to unresolved questions in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181150	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181158	Thank you. Sharing data saves lives, and it's not a pussy. In the past, pneumonia killed, today, once penicillin is given, and we have been given vaccines that can save lives, prevent and even eradicate diseases that used to develop into epidemics where people died. Today we even have medicines that can prevent certain forms of cancer, such as cancer. hpv, cervical cancer, medicines that can prevent HIV and perhaps completely eradicate this terrible disease, and immunotherapy that can help cancer patients with more targeted treatment with fewer side effects. These are just a few, but important examples, and it's absolutely fantastic, but it doesn't come by itself. It comes from huge investment in research, both private and public, and huge private investment in the development of new medicine, which is of huge importance for our survival and quality of life. But it requires that you have data available for this research and development of new medicine. In Denmark, we are quite unique to data sharing and processing, and citizens are very confident that their data is not misused. This trust is essential not to fail. Citizens must continue to be able to rely on the fact that their data do not end up in the wrong hands, and it is really inexcusable that we have seen on several occasions that municipalities and other public bodies accidentally and casually leaked citizens' data. I just can't let that happen. This bill aims to strengthen citizens' security and confidence in health research while at the same time creating a better and more flexible framework for health research in Denmark. On the trust side, it is proposed that research into so-called dry data developed from biological material should in future be evaluated and approved by scientific ethics committees, as is the case today with wet data. This is particularly relevant for genome research projects, i.e. projects where a full DNA analysis is carried out. And just to take it back, no citizen can get a full DNA analysis without informed consent. And it's designed so that everyone can find out, even if you're very sick and bottled of resources, and even if you don't have anyone to help you. It has been very important for the Liberal Alliance that informed consent should be easy and accessible to everyone. So two forms have simply been drawn up, which are given to the doctor. One is to cross off and sign if you want a comprehensive genetic analysis. If you do not want it and you do not fill in the form, the analysis cannot be done. It's one form. If you have completed it and given informed consent for a comprehensive genetic analysis, you will receive another form. At this banquet you just have to put one cross, and the text next to the intersection is: My genetic information may only be used for the treatment of myself or purposes that have an immediate connection to my treatment. I'll send you a receipt. In this way, you are registered with the Tissue Use Register, and your data cannot be used for anything other than your own processing. Back to the bill here with the more flexible framework: less bureaucracy is being put in place to give the doctor more time for patients, because other healthcare professionals, subject to professional secrecy, can take care of the more practical part of data sharing, namely the dissemination of data. At the same time, the changed system of science-sethic committees for researchers will provide easier access and less bureaucracy. In addition, we are introducing a 35-day time limit. So, all in all, it is a proposal that gives less bureaucracy and smarter workflows and therefore gives the doctor more time for the patient and, at the same time, hopefully strengthens citizens' security and confidence in health research. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181615	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181623	Thank you. The bill is about the former rapporteurs having examined it quite precisely, so I will not go through it in my speech here ■ to strengthen the security and confidence in health science data. I would like to start with some consultation answers and the wordings contained in the consultation answers. The University of Copenhagen estimates that the bill supports a reasonable balance between protecting the integrity and privacy of citizens on the one hand and improving the framework for health research on the other, and that is what this bill is about. In the alternative, we would like to stress that these data are of course sensitive to people, and that is why it is also a balance in how far we want to go to accommodate research, while at the same time protecting patients' data, but that is why, as I say, I am starting from the consultation answers, where among other things. Also, the Consumer Council Think supports the bill and considers it fundamentally very positive that the draft law deals in detail with the many scientific questions that health research can bring to consumers. We support the need for the research projects to be notified and approved by the Scientific Committee system, as it is important to safeguard the privacy of the subjects in research. I would also like to mention what the Danish Free Research Fund says, namely that the introduction of requirements for scientific assessment of health data science research projects is extremely appropriate, as it can help to strengthen citizens' security and confidence in health research. So, overall, we are also positive about this bill, and we also have some questions, just as others have mentioned that they have been I believe that Enhedslisten also mentioned that there are some issues that need to be discussed in committee, among others. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers, as well as the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers and their trailers, is a step in the right direction. something that the fight against cancer is expressing. And there are several questions that we will certainly ask. This is a rather complex area, so we will ask some questions in committee, but, as I said, we are positive about the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181912	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312181922	Thank you. As many have already said, the Government's bill aims to strengthen the security and trust of citizens in relation to their personal data, in relation to the safe use of health research. In addition, the proposal proposes to ensure a better framework for research into health record data by ensuring a more effective procedure for accessing this information for research purposes. The SF welcomes the bill. In the SF, we believe that consideration of the rights, safety and well-being of subjects is paramount and must take precedence over everything else. It is important for us that in the future we can continue to mark ourselves on the results of health science and research projects, but it must never be a question of patient safety or patient safety, for that matter. That is why this proposal also makes sense, as it facilitates the possibility of health research projects in the future. But there's one, too, but we must never risk looking at the blind eye in our enthusiasm for research. Data security is and always becomes the most important. We have noticed that among other things. The Ethical Council, the Medical Association and the Danish Psychologist Association have a number of concerns regarding data protection and consent to the disclosure of information that we think should be discussed in the further work. It is important for the SF that security and trust are complete. So even if we like the proposal, we will need to discuss, as others have already said, exactly the exact circumstances in the next reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312182122	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the trip has come to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312182135	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you for your comments. After all, the government published its data play on 8 June 2018, where focus among others. was on a responsible and balanced use of data with the patient at the centre. Indeed, it is important for the government that the right knowledge is in the right hands at the right time, and that is also what subsequently crystallised in a common broad political agreement on how to ensure better use of health data and digitalisation in health care, and which we have also dealt with in an independent legislative proposal. However, one of the elements that also emerged from the government's data project is to create a secure and up-to-date regulatory framework for the use of health data, and also to thank you for the basic positive and supportive words to the bill here today. After all, the draft law contains four elements which aim to strengthen citizens' security and confidence in health research and at the same time also create a better and more flexible framework for health research in Denmark. Citizens can already have confidence and confidence in participating in health research, but there are also points where we want to strengthen it further. Today, only research projects with biological material are required to be notified and approved by the Scientific Committee system. Research projects containing only character-based data, i.e. dry data, should not be notified and approved by the Scientific Committee system today. Today, however, it can play a more insignificant role as to whether data is stored in biological material and in biological form or on a hard drive in relation to scientific protection considerations. This is particularly true for genome research projects where it is not meaningful to distinguish between the form of storage of the wet biological sample and the dry data set derived from the biological material. In the dry data sets there is also a risk of significant secondary health findings corresponding to what is applicable to the biological sample, i.e. the wet data. Therefore, it is proposed to introduce a requirement for a scientific assessment of research projects with sensitive bioinformatic data, i.e. dry data where there is a risk of significant secondary health findings. Then you might ask: what does that mean? Yes, bioinformatic data are sensitive when there is a risk of significant secondary health findings. It may also be findings that are not covered by the project's objectives. The secondary findings shall be assessed as essential to the research participant when it is life-threatening or a clearly serious disease which could be significantly treated, prevented or alleviated. The proposal is therefore intended to ensure that the Scientific Committee system also carries out an independent pressure test as to whether the project is relevant and ethically sound and takes the necessary account of the participants. The bill also proposes to transfer the competence to approve and pass on health record information for research, statistics or planning from the Board of Patient Safety to the regional scientific ethics committees, of which there are now 12, and where the secretariats are located coincident with the regions. It is also proposed to introduce a 35-day time limit. I can hear that there are a number of questions on the part of the legislative proposal which I naturally put at my disposal to answer in committee or today. However, I also think it is important to maintain that there are a number of certification bodies today that researchers need to have an overview of in order to get the right permits to carry out health research and that a great many researchers today see it as incalculable. For something to be obtained from the Health Data Board, something to be obtained from the Board for Patient Safety, and something to be obtained from the Scientific Committee System. So it can be said that when we want to put it out, it is also to simplify the entry point for researchers in relation to research projects, so we know that it is the scientific ethics committee system in which the majority of the authorisations and authorisations to be granted are to be obtained. Today, the competence to approve applications for the transmission of medical records for research purposes is, as I said, placed in the Patient Safety Agency, but the notification of health research projects is made to the committee system. So it is such an example that today you have two places to go where we think it is better to bring it together for the individual researcher and also for the clarity and overview of the system. Today, the management of patient safety is not subject to a legal time limit for processing, and in order to make it more manageable, including for researchers, and thus to create a flexible procedure, we propose both to move it, but also to introduce a time limit of 35 days. The aim of this part of the bill is also to reduce the number of different certification bodies with which researchers are in contact, while maintaining the independent certification body, which then also takes a position on the individual research projects, and which also approves the transmission of health record data for research, statistics and planning purposes. There is no doubt that there will be the same administrative and legal assessment of applications as what is being done today, which will then have to be continued by the secretariats of the regional scientific committees, and with the 35-day deadline we will also have a shorter processing period than what we have today. This also means that the secretariats have to decide on the applications and assess them in a way that, as a researcher, everything else is equal, will have a simplified entry into the Danish health service. The final element of the draft law is a proposal that the management at the place of treatment or the controller health authority may allow authorised health professionals employed in the health service to obtain health record information for specific research projects under certain conditions if the project or the transmission of the information is approved by the appropriate authority. Today, researchers must first have approved the disclosure of health record information by the Patient Safety Agency, and then the information must be passed on by the controller. This means that the employees of the controller, for example. health care professionals at a treatment site must present the relevant information before it can be passed on to a researcher. With the proposal, we are proposing that the possibility of obtaining this facility should create a better framework for clinical research, and this is very much needed. But there are also some limitations, such as: it must be an authorised healthcare professional, that the management at the place of treatment or the data controller health authority must grant the authorisation for the acquisition itself and that the research project is carried out in connection with the employment of the authorised healthcare professional. It is also proposed that the management at the place of treatment may authorise another person subject to a statutory obligation of professional secrecy to provide technical assistance to the authorised health care professional in connection with the acquisition. I think we have all experienced many inquiries and contacts that today you can neither get the help of your PhD student nor of people who are technically knowledgeable to obtain data. It is then still a condition that the person providing technical assistance is subject to professional secrecy and that information is obtained under the responsibility of the authorised health care professional. It is also a prerequisite that the number of persons authorised to provide technical assistance is reduced as much as possible. However, with these reservations, I would say that it is also an attempt to modernise the legislation we have so that it can support the clinical research that is going on out there, and also in a way where health professionals have time for their core task and can also obtain technical assistance from other sources. As I said, of course, I am answering all the questions that may be, but I welcome the basic broad support that has been shown for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312183001	I thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312183015	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312183035	Thank you, President. The draft law here is about strengthening the framework for hearing aids. I would just like to make it clear, as a start, that a great many Danes have a hearing disability of greater or lesser magnitude. Somewhere between half a million and 800,000 Danes have a hearing handicap, and it is estimated that approx. 300,000 Danes have a hearing aid to meet some of the challenges with the hearing impairment they have. We have had this subject on several political occasions. It has not always been easy to achieve the necessary clarity in this area. Now we have it up again, and we very much welcome it from the Socialist side. We in the group of rapporteurs have had a debate on this under changing health ministers, and that is part of the content here. Similarly, part of the content of the bill is an agreement concluded under this year's Finance Act. When I say that we have had it up several times, we have mainly looked at some ambiguities that have been around the legislation and framework. We have looked at the challenges of impartiality on the part of the ear-nose-neck doctors, and we have looked at the challenges of capacity in this area across Denmark. What we have to deal with is that these hundreds of thousands of Danes who have the problem should, of course, have the right, the qualified help. They should be assured that, regardless of whether they go to a public or private part of the health provision in the field of hearing aids, they will receive the right guidance and treatment and that, if they are to have a hearing aid, they will also receive the very best hearing aid. There are, overall, six elements in the draft law, and I would just like to mention some of them at least. I can see if I can reach them all. New national quality requirements will be established for hearing aid treatment, whether public or private. There is a need for the patient to know that it is the right quality to be offered. The use of professional guidance is required in connection with the search of the hearing aid area. It is the case that all patients should receive it, so you have the impression that the assessment of your hearing disability is carried out with the same professional criteria. What has been a huge challenge and must be experienced as a very, very big challenge and also an unreasonable challenge for a great many hearing people is that we have incredibly long waiting times. There's a lot of variation across the country. The regions have done a lot and set up new clinics around, but whatever it is, we have a huge challenge. This is where, with the conclusion of the Finance Act and the parties behind it, 25 million have been set aside. kr. to an extraordinary pool settlement. We have advocated this in the Social Democratic Party too, so we very much welcome it, because it would be nice if we could look at the other side of the hump and then get much more into the muddy waters and could make things slip. An additional element is that a national information booklet has to be prepared which requires that all ear-nose-neck doctors hand over to patients, and these are patients with uncomplicated hearing loss. It is important to try to distinguish between those who have the really complicated hearing disorders and those who have the uncomplicated hearing loss. And it is the case today that a great many of those who have the uncomplicated are waiting to enter the public clinics, and here the draft law proposes that it may be appropriate for them to consult more closely the private audiological clinics, which have many places in the country. We also welcome this from the Socialist side. We believe that all the capacity available should be used to remove the hump. Then there is a very important point, and that is about impartiality. There have been many double interests in this area and we have discussed it politically. Now there will be an obligation to ensure that patients and signs of which clinics offer hearing aids that can be acquired within the financial framework covered by the public subsidy. Perhaps we in the Socialist Group would like there to be a duty to hand it over in all the clinics, but that is what we are going to do in the third reading. I did not manage to get it all through, but I would still like to dwell on the last point, and that is that there is now a ban on ownership in a company that has retail hearing aids, while at the same time practicing as an ear-nose-neck doctor and thus referring to its own retail store. There is a deadline, which is 1 July 2019, which means that you do not go back. You can't, because then you'll talk about expropriation, and that's what the terms are. This is a good distinction to make. On the socialist side, we think that there are a great many good elements in this. There may well be something we need to discuss towards the third reading, and I am sure we will have a good discussion on that. And then I am very pleased that the President gave me a little extra time, but I can say that we are saving a little time, because I have to say that both the Radical Left and the Alternative are in the same position as I have indicated here that the Social Democratic Party has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312183634	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then the trip has come to Mrs Liselott Blixt as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312183644	Thank you very much. After all, the previous rapporteur has presented the whole legislative proposal so well that I do not need to go through all of it. Instead, I can dwell on the fact that when you have been a health rapporteur for many years, hearing aids have been spoken many times. There have been a great many consultations, there have been a great many questions for the Minister, and there have also been legislative proposals along the way. We in Denmark have been in a rather special situation compared to so many other countries, because we did it so that if you had a hearing loss, you could get subsidies, yes, you could actually get hearing aids for no money. This meant that we actually got some fantastic forward-looking and innovative producers in the country, and this enabled us to give the people who suffered a hearing loss, some hearing aids that they could use, precisely when they were going into social contexts and many other places where it is a huge nuisance, if you cannot hear what is being said. We know that it causes social isolation and it causes problems at work; I do not think you can imagine how bad it is if you have not tried it yourself or have a relative who you find out does not hear at all what you say. That's annoying, isn't it? You actually end up thinking sometimes: I don't want to say what I wanted to say, because then I have to explain it a lot of times. We think it has been a really good development, but a few years ago there were some cases that some people waited a long time and that some people made a lot of money for the state to grant this subsidy. And it made us take it up in here. Unfortunately, this meant that the previous government actually removed a lot of money from the area, and this meant that the Danish People's Party called for a question debate which has resulted in us standing here today with this bill. We have negotiated a number of things with the government and with the Minister for Health, and we therefore also agreed that something should now happen in this area. Some of the things we used to say back then were double roles and how some made more money than others because they could refer to their own store and sell their own hearing aids, and how to create a system that benefited the patient more. We feel we've got that with this bill. At the same time, we have had some money set aside to ensure that we look at the whole area in a completely new way. In the Danish People's Party we also thought that we should look at the humpback settlement, because there are some places that have 90 weeks of waiting. And we know that there are a lot of people who wait until they have said what many times and found out that there is actually a lot that they have missed. I and we hope that we can now do something about that in relation to this bill coming through. It's not solved with this, but it's certainly a push in the right direction. A great deal of money has also been set aside for the hunching, and then we hope that it will benefit those who have gone for a very long time and waited so that they can get back to being social again, could hear what their children and grandchildren are saying, and for some they could also maintain their work • something they have had difficulty with, because they are waiting for them to adjust their hearing aids. So we agree with the agreement and look forward to it working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312184034	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the trip has come to Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312184041	Thank you, President. Do you hear what I'm saying? The vast majority of us will answer yes, but about 900,000 Danes will either not answer because they have not heard the question, or they will say: What is it? Of the 900,000 who, as estimated, have hearing challenges, the majority will be men, and approx. 50% of all Danes over 75 years of age will have impaired hearing. If we look a little in the crystal ball, by 2030 we will have 230,000 more elderly people, and a large part of these will have hearing challenges. Today we live in a terrible noise with loud music and street noise and sound from radio TV and noise from the workplace and much more, and it challenges our hearing. One thing is that impaired hearing challenges the everyday and social life of the individual; another is that there are immensely long waiting times for hearing aids. In November 2018, the waiting period was between 15 and 115 weeks for public hearing treatment. 115 weeks, that's more than two years. And this is a totally unacceptable long wait and therefore action is needed now. We in the Left are incredibly pleased with the financial agreement we have signed with the Danish People's Party. With 25 million. kr. Every year from 2019 we are now taking a big and important step to give Danish hearing patients better opportunities to get help with their hearing loss. In the Left, we want all these people to have their social life back, so that with a hearing aid on or in their ears they can again participate in social gatherings with family and friends without having to put themselves outside or be left out, simply because with a hearing disability you cannot keep up with the conversation. Today, it is almost impossible for patients to navigate between public and private offers. At the same time, it is not possible for patients to know what private financial interests a doctor has in this area. Legislation on the financial relations of doctors with hearing aid producers is virtually non-existent. And it is simply not acceptable that as a patient in the Danish healthcare system you cannot be sure that it is only a health professional assessment that decides the doctor's instructions. With the bill, we are now taking on the challenges in the field of hearing aids, and in a total of six areas we are addressing: patients' rights must be strengthened so that private clinics are obliged to inform the patient whether the clinic can offer a hearing aid within the price of the public subsidy. New national quality requirements will be introduced for both public and private hearing aids. And demands are made for the use of professional guidance at the visitation, and this means the same criteria for assessing hearing loss, whether as a patient you have chosen a public or private grant. With a new information booklet to be provided by the ear-nose-neck doctors, we ensure that all patients with a non-complicated hearing loss have a real opportunity to choose between the various offers on an informed basis. Then we need to know more about the area, and that is what we will get, because ear-nose-neck doctors in public and private clinics in the future will have to report patient data on, for example. waiting time and quality. Finally, we are tightening up the rules on doctors' association with the retail sale of medical equipment, and we are doing so to ensure that it is a medical assessment and not financial interests that govern the doctor's decision. It is simply not good for Danish patients to live with the risk that it is financial interests rather than a medical assessment which is the basis for the choice of medical equipment or, in this case, a hearing aid. With more information for doctors who work both in the clinic and at the same time have a link with the retail industry, and with a future ban on ear-nose-neck doctors being co-owned by a retailing company, we are now strengthening the ability. Last but not least, it makes sense that in the long term we will have more uniform supervision. As in all other areas of our health care, greater uniformity in treatment should be sought. It must not be pure postcode lottery when a hearing loss is to be treated. The Left can support the bill as tabled, and I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312184504	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312184512	Thank you. Today, we are going to deal with this bill for stronger hearing action. This is an area which is so much in need of clean-up. There are far too long waiting times, and there has been a long time. It affects people who suffer from hearing loss, many are at risk of social isolation and being excluded from the community because you cannot have conversations with other people and you cannot be there for the important people in your life because you cannot hear what your spouse or grandchildren say. You risk losing your job and your network. Hearing loss is highly disabling. The draft law also addresses the important problem that the hearing area is somewhat the Wild West. Today, private audiologists can refer to their own store where they can sell hearing aids in expensive sentences, although it is possible to get hearing aids with public subsidies so that there does not have to be self-payment. We therefore support the part of the bill that will ensure better transparency in treatment provision, so that private clinics have to provide clearer information on free treatment and ownership. We believe that there is still room for improvement, as the Hearing Association also points out. They write: "But the bill is not enough. As it stands now, it is up to the individual negotiator whether you want to offer hearing aids without payment. We believe it should be a requirement that all private distributors selling hearing aids with public subsidies should offer hearing aid without self-payment as part of the range. We are aware that the comments state that this is the intention, but it should be tightened up in the legislative text. Furthermore, we do not believe that there is a real dispute about the fact that it is really a seller who has to advise. It states that, as from 1 July 2019, specialist physicians in ear, nose and neck diseases who work or assist in hearing aids for patients shall not acquire ownership in establishments retailing hearing aids. But that does not solve the problem that many already have a company from which they sell hearing aids. It is positive that the bill provides an opportunity for patients who receive hearing aids through a private provider to be able to better replace lost hearing aids. However, it is a little incomprehensible why the four-year deadline should be extended to the public sector, where people with complicated hearing loss are also treated. On the one hand, the definition that there must be a marked deterioration in the health of the hearing is imprecise, and on the other hand, there may be reasons other than deterioration of the hearing that motivated a need to replace the device. We believe that it should be a medical judgement that determines whether there is a need for a new hearing aid. We also support the collection of more data and knowledge in the field of hearing so that the area can be continuously improved, because there are too many hearing aids in drawers around the country. We need to find out whether hearing aids are being handed out to people who do not really benefit from them or what is wrong. We fully acknowledge the problem. There are far too long waiting times for specialist departments, there is a demographic pressure that makes it inappropriate to base the long-term strategy for hearing aids for citizens with uncomplicated hearing loss in hospital care. Therefore, it is positive that the 2019 Finance Act provided funds for extraordinary hunching, so that waiting times are reduced. The bill is motivated by the fact that it will prevent similar humps in the future. There, however, we believe that the proposal basically does not solve the underlying problem, namely that hospitals are so economically starving that employees would rather work in the private sector, where they can take care of the uncomplicated treatments and go home on time, and that there are not enough staff trained to care for the many more elderly who need our health care, including hearing aids. These are problems that create waiting times for patients, both for those with complicated and uncomplicated hearing loss. We think it is a wrong solution to prevent waiting times by moving the uncomplicated out of public treatment and into private offers. Already this summer, Danske Regionser wrote that part of the problem of waiting times is due to the fact that the audiologists quit in the public sector and take jobs in the private sector. With the legislative proposal, that movement will only strengthen and weaken our common health care, also because we are imposing more administrative and trouble on public servants by means of the bill. Instead of treating, they need to spend time on visitation processes, information about private clinics, etc. We believe that instead of making efforts to create good public services in the primary sector, efforts could be made closer to the citizens. Around the country health houses are being built and public crowns are being used to train skilled and committed people within a number of new professional groups, such as: university-educated audiologists and audiologists. Let us use those investments to create good public offerings where people with uncomplicated hearing loss can get treatment close to where they live. Then we will also avoid the difficulties that the draft law is trying to overcome, namely the problems that arise when doctors can make money selling the equipment they prescribe themselves. So, although there are a number of positive measures in the draft law, we basically believe that it is moving in the wrong direction. And that's why we can't support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185015	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185026	Thank you. In the field of hearing aids, there may be between 15 and 115 weeks of waiting in the public sector, and this is a huge problem for the patients to whom it relates. It means something both in terms of work and in social terms. You are often perceived as antisocial when you sit in a company because you don't really participate in the conversation, and then people think that it is because you don't care about it and don't want to keep up. You can also be seen as stupid, because what the others have just been talking about can suddenly be asked about. This means that many people do not participate in social events, and it is not particularly appropriate or pleasant for anyone, and certainly not, when one could actually be treated without waiting or after a very short waiting period, if one simply approached a private person because the capacity here is present. Why, then, is it that you are on the waiting list for so many weeks when there is spare capacity in the private sector? It is simply because patients cannot see through their opportunities and rights, because in this area there is actually a free choice from day one. It is not conditional on the public being given first rights. This is not subject to any treatment or investigation guarantees in 30 days. In principle, the day after your diagnosis, you can go to a private person and get your hearing aid. But you do not, and that is because you have not been properly informed about that possibility. That is what we are going to change now by obliging ear-nose-neck doctors to have mandatory information. At the same time, there needs to be more clarity about equity and economic self-interest. It will be the case in future with this bill that it will be forbidden for ear-nose-neck doctors to establish ownership in a company with retail hearing aids. This is one thing which I hope will help to ensure that we have a more free choice in reality and that this will help to dismantle these long waiting lists. This is a very good legislative proposal, for which I myself have spent a lot of time, and I am quite happy with the result. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185312	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185321	Thank you. The bill here is about ensuring patients with hearing loss access to effective, high-quality treatment and shortening the long waiting times for hearing aids. That is two good purposes. Between 500,000 and 800,000 Danes are estimated to have reduced hearing to a greater or lesser extent. Of course, we need to take this problem seriously, especially since untreated hearing loss can lead to serious challenges in the patient's life. It is important for SF that we ensure patients with impaired hearing in the best possible way as normal a daily life as possible. We know, of course, that the consequences of hearing loss can be difficulties in communicating, loneliness, isolation and frustration, and we must, of course, do all we can to combat this; perhaps especially if it is the case that there is also a connection between hearing loss and, for example, hearing loss. development of dementia. That is why we also support a proposal which can qualify for the treatment of hearing loss. The right to be treated in good time is important, without self-payment, and the right to be taken into account individually, for patients are not the same, and therefore standards should not be the same. We have already worked with medical coverage and there is a connection between medical coverage and waiting time. In the SF we sympathise with the humpback settlement, but we would like to see the proposal also have the opportunity to look at a longer-term strategy, where we will also have the opportunity to consider the possibility of research, for example. And if you are able to do so, you will also have to look at the fact that a non-complicated hearing loss can be the forerunner of a complicated hearing loss, and the proposal should allow the ear doctors to look at that part as well. We think that there are still some considerations that we would like to take into account in relation to the part that we would like to discuss in committee, and I am also listening to Mr Enhedslisten asking a number of questions which it may make sense to try to include in the committee's proceedings afterwards. We would like to have the opportunity to do so before we finally take a position on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185545	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then we've come to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312185558	Thank you for your comments on the bill. There is no doubt that untreated hearing loss may have serious consequences. Hearing loss can lead to difficulties in communicating, it can lead to loneliness, isolation, job loss, relationships and other things. What we have also discussed in relation to the hearing aid area is that, unfortunately, today it is not working optimally for the individual patient. It is difficult for patients to navigate between the different treatment options and there is no common quality control of treatment in the public and private sectors. There is also a lack of transparency, among other things. also transparency of convergent interests. In addition, it has to be said that waiting times for public hearing aids have been unacceptable in all, far too long. With the bill that we are dealing with today, the government, as a follow-up to the financial agreement we have concluded with the Danish People's Party and the proposal that we made in the autumn, wants to clean up the area and create the conditions for future hearing aid treatment. That is why the draft law also contains a large number of elements which aim to ensure that citizens with hearing loss can receive in future effective and impartial treatment of high quality. It is time, as I have also heard several of the rapporteurs say, that we cleaned up the structural challenges in this area too. In addition to the bill, which provides a better framework for the area, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has also prioritised 25 million with the 2019 Finance Act. kr. Every year the next four years to reduce waiting times for public hearing aids, i.e. to dismantle the hump that has accumulated far too many places. First of all, the draft law contains an obligation for ear-noseneck doctors to provide a national information booklet in future so that all citizens with hearing loss are informed of the treatment options available to them and that it is, of course, the same information, regardless of which department you are being treated, but also information which shows what treatment options you have not only in the public sector, but also what options you have for free choice in the hearing area, where, from day one has the possibility, if you are a citizen with uncomplicated hearing loss, you can use your free choice to obtain treatment, for example. in a hearing clinic or other places where treatment can also be offered. Secondly, private hearing clinics are required to sign up with a number of information, and it is important to go because many people today find that they do not have the full information. It acts among other things. ensuring that the hearing healthcare provider also signs whether they have a hearing aid in the range, which is priced within the public subsidy limit for private treatment. I actually think that we have all talked to patients who have agreed to a hearing clinic with the idea of having a hearing aid and then find out, when they have been there for half an hour, that there is no hearing aid within the subsidy limit, and that it is both wasted time for them, but also for the hearing clinic. There we need to make it easier for the citizen, the patient, to navigate between the different treatment options and also to choose the solution that suits the needs of the individual. Thirdly, we propose to introduce national quality requirements for hearing aids in Denmark, and this must apply both in the public and private sectors. You have to be comfortable with the treatment you receive and that it is of high quality wherever it goes. Fourthly, we propose requirements for the use of professional guidance for consulting hearing aid, so as to ensure that all patients have their hearing loss assessed on the basis of the same criteria, regardless of where in the system the patient gets the hearing test, i.e. a system that we are missing today. Fifthly, we are launching a national systematic and uniform collection of data on hearing aids in Denmark. For today, unfortunately, we know far too little about both who receives hearing aid and what treatment they have received or what follow-up they have received. Nor do we know whether the individual patient actually achieves the desired effect as a result of the treatment and, as several of the rapporteurs have also said, it sometimes leads to the drawers that are being talked about. I mean, we're actually in danger of using the resources incorrectly. We need to have a comprehensive overview of this. Finally, we are proposing increased capacity requirements, and there I am pleased with the good dialogue we have had between the rapporteurs in relation to the problems experienced by people with hearing loss. There must be no doubt about the viability of doctors. Doctors should not only ensure that their patients receive the best treatment, they should also do so without taking into account their own financial interests. This is important, and this is highlighted by the draft law, in which we also ensure the framework and conditions for future hearing aid treatment. It can be said that this is something that goes beyond the bill, but which is also part of the agreement that the government has made with the Danish People's Party, namely to look at the technology and opportunities in the hearing aid area, look at how it is evolving on an ongoing basis, and on the basis of the bill we will also have the opportunity to further develop the area. In addition to the initiatives in the bill, the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the agreement we have made on the Finance Act, wants to introduce a new model of visitation to hearing aid treatment in Denmark, where we make better use of both new technology and knowledge, but also look at what it really is for some well-educated professionals we have in the field today, which we can benefit from better. With the new model, we will make it possible to standardise and digitise parts of the course of treatment and also move parts of the course of treatment closer to the citizen, while maintaining a strong health care concern. I welcome the positive reception that the draft law has already received and, of course, makes available to me for any questions that may be raised during the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312190222	Thank you very much to the Danish Minister for Health. No one else wanted to speak, and that is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Elderly, and if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312190246	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 14 March 2019. The reason for the question is given by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party, who has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312190316	Thank you very much. I've been interested in the diagnosis of ME for the past 11 years. Now I'll try to see if I can pronounce it: myalgia stands for the M, it's muscle pain, and the E stands for encephalitis, it's a little hard to say, and it's inflammation of the brain and spinal cord. But we use ME and more mouthily we call this in Denmark chronic fatigue syndrome. For 11 years I have had regular contact with patients and relatives, and at the same time I have also read and followed what has been done in other countries. In the autumn I received a request that means that we are here today. It was a request from a couple on Fanoe. I feel like I have to talk to people, look people in the eye, and therefore I go out many times and visit them too to see whether they are serious and credible, and especially because some of these people are actually told that they are suffering from the disease Münchausen by proxy. I met these parents... they were ordinary people... and they told me about some terrible years with a sick daughter they were fighting to help. When I heard their story, and it's not the first one I've heard, I've heard more in these years, you don't think it's Denmark you live in. I believe that most people, like me, expect a social and health care system that exists for the citizens and that cares about the individual. But that's not what I heard. They have a daughter who spends almost 24 hours in bed, does not tolerate light, sound and touch, and for every day that passes, becomes weaker and weaker, and is gradually unable to see opportunities in life. We are talking about a health service in which doctors refuse to treat her, refuse to make sick visits, and a social service which refuses to grant aids and which accuses parents of suffering from Münchausen by proxy. You think it's a lie that we're in Denmark 2019 when you hear about neighboring countries, where several years ago, the prime minister candidate actually went to the polls to do something for this patient group. So what I am asking the Danish Minister for Health is: What will the Minister do to help and recognise and support these people who have been diagnosed with ME, and the parents who are fighting the worst fight every day to help their child, who has been so unlucky to have a disease that, unfortunately, we do not know all about today, but who need to be recognised, supported and not the opposite, as we see here in Denmark? I look forward very much to having a debate on this today, and I hope that the Minister will help to support this group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312190620	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the questions. Before we go any further, I should like to send a warm invitation to all the rapporteurs to come up and take their seats up here in the inner circle. And we're gonna take a break. You will be allowed to sit quietly and hear the Minister's wise words. I should have told you before we started. I regret the poor orchestration and thank colleagues for their very great goodwill. I can see that everyone is about to be ready, so they have a good chair to sit in when we welcome the Minister for Health. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312190842	Thank you, President. Thank you for the question. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for focusing on the efforts of patients with ME I will avoid trying to pronounce the word " or chronic fatigue syndrome," as we also call it. It is a disease that unfortunately affects many people. It is difficult to put on an exact number, but the Danish Health Authority estimates that this applies to between 10,000 and 20,000 people. Patients often describe ME as a profound fatigue • fatigue that affects their ability to function and quality of life and that can be both debilitating and prolonged. Chronic fatigue is among other things: characterised by the patient having clear physical symptoms, but sometimes it cannot be detected by blood tests, X-ray examinations or other medical tests. There is a lack of professional consensus in some areas, and there is also a lack of adequate identification of causes and disease mechanisms. There is a great deal of need and I fully share the rapporteur's wish for greater clarity in this area. Research is being carried out in ME, both abroad and here in Denmark, among others. there is a comprehensive Danish research project that is currently uncovering a large number of factors in relation to the development of ME, but we need to keep our minds focused on the new knowledge that is coming, because it is also a prerequisite for us to be able to organise our treatment better tomorrow than we have managed so far. However, although we still lack much knowledge about ME, there is no doubt that this is a real disease, a real disease that needs to be recognised, a real disease that needs to be dealt with and treated. It is important to state that certain diagnoses are not a condition for receiving treatment, nor is the exclusion of certain diagnoses. And when I say that, it is because there is a discrepancy between the number that has actually been diagnosed and the number that the Danish Health Authority estimates there are of citizens suffering from ME. Patients with ME must of course meet with the same professionalism and the same relevant offer of investigation and treatment in the health care system as all other patients. And unfortunately, we have to recognise that not all patients with ME meet with the professionalism and the relevant services of investigation and treatment to which they are entitled today. We must also note that efforts vary across the country and that in some places there is a great deal of lack of effort. Many patients experience stigmatising, and when they have been through an often long study course, there is also not always a relevant offer of treatment at the other end. The Danish Health Authority submitted the report published in June 2018, among others. focus on ME, also with recommendations for both investigation and treatment, rehabilitation and detigmatisation of e.g. ME. It is a report prepared in collaboration with representatives from the various thesis, but also together with Danske Regioner, the National Association of Municipalities and also the relevant patient associations, in this case the ME Association. One of the key recommendations made by the Danish Health Authority was that all regions should set up specialised multidisciplinary centres to provide and process, among other things. patients with severe cases of ME and who also need to ensure coordination and concerted action for those patients who today sometimes experience that they are being sent from one offer to another by a specialist and who lack coherence and consensus on the offers and treatment to be undertaken. Patients must also ensure that the relevant specialties are involved in their investigation and treatment, and the centres must coordinate the overall effort so that patients do not become throwing balls in the system, from department to department and back and forth, then back to their own doctor and then again on to e.g. hospital clearance or something. There is a need for overall coordination. The centres must provide professional advice to the other parts of the health service, but also to the practical sector and also to the municipalities. In addition, it is at the heart of the recommendations made by the Danish Health Authority that greater knowledge about, among others, is to be ensured. ME in all specialties. And now the rapporteur did not read out the proposal for adoption. I assume that the rapporteur will do so in the next round, but I would just like to welcome the fact that many of the elements are also reflected in the joint proposal for adoption, which is the subject of today's debate, because that is very much needed. The Danish Health Authority is already reviewing the medical specialties to ensure that ME is enrolled in the relevant places. The aim is, among other things, that ME should be anchored in the somatic specialties, rather than that, as is the case today, the disease is only described in the psychiatric thesis guide. It's important. It is also important to ensure that the use of stigmatising names is stopped. When we talk about stigmatisation, we also need to look at how chronic fatigue is recorded. In the medical records, doctors can use the terms they believe to be most relevant and descriptive for a patient's disease, but there has to be standards when healthcare professionals have to record patients' contacts in connection with investigation and treatment. And then there is a need to introduce a neutral and non-stigmatizing code practice for the registration of ME. A code practice which also supports and recognises WHO recommendations and initiatives in this area. The new coding is expected to be introduced during the first half of 2019. It is also crucial that in the practical sector and in the municipalities there is an armament, so that there is also provision for both providing, treating and retraining patients with ME to make relevant offers at all. Therefore, the Danish Health Authority also has recommendations that are specifically directed at those parts of the health care system and that are intended to help patients with ME. The Danish Health Authority recommends, among other things, that the municipalities should ensure knowledge and competences in relation to citizens with ME • this applies both to employees in the municipalities, but also to the general practitioners so that it becomes clear what kind of offer it is, for example. is present in a municipality, so that you also as a general practitioner know what you can refer to or what you can draw from resources the place you are anchored. Clinical guidelines are also an important tool for the dissemination of knowledge about ME, and the Danish Society for General Medicine has prepared a clinical guide for patients with e.g. ME. That is why it is also important to ensure that that knowledge comes out everywhere. Based on the recommendations made in June 2018 by the Danish Health Authority to organise professional centres, the regions are in the process of establishing specialised interdisciplinary regional centres, and as I said, the Danish Health Authority is reviewing the thesis guides and code practices so that we can ensure a much more up-to-date and targeted offer for ME patients in Denmark. As a result of today's question debate and the proposal for adoption, which I know has been negotiated between the parties of the Danish Parliament, I have also stressed to the Danish Health Authority that development and research must be monitored, both internationally and from the Danish side, in order to ensure that we keep up with how we can improve treatment in Denmark. I know that the board is aware of this and will also do so, among other things. through dialogue with the relevant patient associations, as was the case in relation to the report published in June last year, in which we also tried to involve all parties. So thank you to the authors of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191714	Thank you very much to the Minister. According to our practice, there is now an opportunity for all rapporteurs to have a brief comment before we proceed to the speeches of the rapporteurs. That is to say, those of you who want a brief comment to the Minister now have an opportunity, and the first is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191733	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. I was just a little interested in hearing about something. Now the Minister says that the Danish Health Service should look at the treatment practices that exist in other countries, for example. Norway, Sweden and England, where you have some other experience in terms of treatment methods, among others. in relation to graduated training and cognitive therapy, and then I would just like to hear the health minister's opinion on the experience that has been gained there. After all, it seems obvious that in countries with which we usually compare ourselves, we have a completely different practice from that in Denmark. It is of course fine that the Danish Health Authority investigates it, but I was just a little interested in hearing the Minister of Health's opinion on the obvious difference between how to treat ME patients in Denmark and how to do it in Norway, Sweden and England.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191823-2	I also hear various actors pointing out that in the United States, England, Norway and in part in Sweden there is a slight difference, depending on who you are talking to, there is good experience that we could benefit from. I also see this as a result of the reports published in June last year, both in relation to the multidisciplinary organisation and in relation to the work that has been set in motion in order to find a non-stigmatizing code practice in this area. In relation to Sweden, a written reply has also been sent, where the Danish Health Authority has made contributions in relation to what Sweden is actually working on. And I have no wish but that we ensure that we constantly draw experience, also internationally, to improve treatment in Denmark, and I actually experience that as well as the Danish Health Authority. So I can only say that it is a natural thing, and I think that the question today also underlines the need to look beyond the country's borders in terms of being inspired by the experience of others in treating ME patients better than we have been able to do up to now in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191926	Then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191928	Thank you very much. The minister talks a lot about the Danish Health Authority doing so much and has done so much. Now I have been rapporteur on this for over 11 years and I would like to ask: what has been done for those who are out there? I can see no other difference than that you try to train them, which you know backfires, and you try cognitive therapy. And if the Danish Health Service has done so much, why hasn't it dressed the doctors who are going to treat them with chronic fatigue syndrome?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312191958	Well, I don't think much has been done for a long time. That is actually what I was trying to say. But there was the survey that was published last June, which was an attempt, as it were, to say: here we have an area where we do not do enough for patients and where we see to a large extent that there are patients who do not get an adequate offer and experience inadequate coordination, that is, there is neither the analysis nor the effort that needs to be made. Against this background, a number of initiatives have been taken, and that is how I tried to list them. From a historical point of view, I fully agree with the rapporteur that this is a group which has experienced a lack of coordination and that this is one of the things we need to correct. I see that as well as the conclusions of the report last June. The work to correct this practice has now been started, and I think that today's question just gives us another opportunity, like getting the focus on, for the goal is surely that ME patients in Denmark should experience a completely different context in their treatment and experience a better offer than they have been given so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192105	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192107	Thank you. I think this may be one of the most important questions we have had for a long time; at least I think we have all experienced an extremely large number of inquiries. You don't have to search the web for very long to find that when we talk about functional disorders, there are also a lot of patients who start talking about bin diagnoses. In fact, it is probably one of our biggest problems, I think, when some patients experience that the diagnosis they have received is considered something we really do not really know what to do about: what is called functional disorders with a collective term is something that we do not really know what to do with. Could it not make very good sense in this context to divide it up? This also shows the seriousness that needs to be done by looking at ME, as is the case here, but it could also be by looking at some of the other diseases that are in this very common group. I mean, I think we owe it to patients at least to have the respect to have that look at what is possible for the individual and not just for a group as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192214	In other words, the Danish Health Authority has also provided a professional recording, which has also been sent to the committee today, on the occasion of the debate, in which the Danish Health Authority also clearly states that for the Danish Health Authority the concept of functional disorders is neither stigmatising nor an expression of the absence of a disease. So, people with functional disorders have a completely real disease. The Danish Health Authority also points to something else, and when I repeat it, it is because it is a bit like the problems, if you call things something new, go away, and because I think it is important to say that all the work that was also done last year, in looking at how we treat functional disorders in Denmark, the basic thing was that there are some patients we have failed, and that there is a need to improve the treatment, regardless of whether you relate to the individual diagnosis and the peculiarities that may be there, or that in some wider areas there are also some patient groups who have similar problems as long investigation periods, the lack of experience of being recognized, the feeling of being throwing ball in a system, and in which one might well benefit from the fact that some of the problems are similar, but where some of the solutions have to be diverse. That is certainly what the proposal for adoption today is very much an expression of. It's not just about moving ME and functional disorders for that matter... away from being anchored only in the psychiatry and being recognized as a somatic disorder, but also about the fact that in some places there is a difference between ME and some of the other diagnoses that lie among the functional disorders, and that it is not the same offer as a patient. That is also what I see as the starting point for the joint proposal for adoption, which has been given the energy to get negotiations in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192351	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192353	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express an incredibly great pleasure at the fact that all parties here in the Folketing have agreed on a proposal for adoption which will clearly make some new traces for the ME treatment in Denmark. That's really good. Then I would like to ask the Minister something, because the Minister says that it may well be that we have not done so much in Denmark in relation to ME patients. On the socialist side, we would very much like us to have a health service that also acts proactively. Does the Minister have an answer to what we can do so that we do not get into similar situations where the Minister must stand and say that we may not have done so much, that we may not have done enough, that we may have done less than other countries? This should not be what characterizes the Danish health care system. I think: how can one do something where one benchmark more proactively, where one gets listening to medical companies, patient organisations' experiences at home and abroad, so that we get it incorporated, so that we get it built into our behaviour and the health authority's pro-activity in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192503-2	There will always be areas where some countries are taking the lead or some research results that suddenly show some new things that we need to benefit from. That is also why we have a strong Health Board, which also has to inform health professionals both in what is moving in Denmark, create a professional dialogue in the area and look beyond the country's borders in the area. I basically agree with the dilemma that may be, but in relation to the systematic follow-up, I see that it was, and the Danish Health Service, with the entire survey of the area of functional disorders, tried to have a systematic approach to it. We have also done it in the area of metabolic diseases, and we have done inspections in a number of areas where we have seen that there are patient groups who have little felt that they have become throwing ball in our health care and have not been seen and recognised. I believe that the system we have in the inspections that are being carried out also provides both a basis for seeing what international experience is and what we are doing in Denmark, but also the involvement of patient organisations and professional companies in a way in which we will then also have recommendations that we can work on politically as well. Then we need to keep the emotional horns out all the time in order to gain new knowledge in this area, and that is what the proposal for adoption today is all about, namely that there is a desire to look even more beyond the borders of the country and see if we can be inspired by the treatment there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192630	Thank you to the Minister in this round. To the traditional number of listeners who listen to it here, but also and especially at home, I can say that a question debate is an attempt by a Member to get the Minister to explain a particular subject. Afterwards, the Minister will reply, and now we have had the rapporteur make a brief comment. Let us now turn to the speeches made by the rapporteurs. Then they come with their commandments, and they also have the right to ask each other. In addition to that, something has been mentioned which is called a proposal for adoption. All Members may make proposals for adoption. There is probably one on the way with which we can conclude the very question debate with which we say that we are so agreed. It's gonna be exciting to hear what happens next. At the end of the day, it is the Minister for Health who comes to this and, of course, the rapporteurs have access to two comments, as they usually do. It is not an instruction to the rapporteurs, but it is a briefing to our listeners. Here you go to Mrs Liselott Blixt, who is the first rapporteur because she is a questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312192728	Thank you very much, and thank you for your review. It's been a long time since I've been in on a request, so I haven't been in on the new way of doing it. But I'm really happy about it. First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs today, because we have reached agreement in a proposal for adoption which I will read out when I have finished my rapporteur's speech. I have listened to the Minister's reply, and I am also grateful for the Minister's reply and all the good things that are about to happen. And when I say to happen, I am surprised that the Minister is talking about a report that was completed in June last year. When we have such sick people at home, I think that nothing has happened to them for six months. I think we have received hundreds of requests from people who are at home with ME, who cannot work, who cannot do anything; who are either on the couch or in bed 24 hours a day. The only thing they are offered is training that is known from research elsewhere to destroy them rather than help them. That is what we have seen repeatedly for many of the years I have been sitting here as rapporteur. That's also one of the reasons why this thing keeps calling it a functional disorder isn't good enough. It may be that the Danish Health Service and some doctors think it is good to have a collective term for it. But everyone knows by now that people feel like a trash bin diagnosis. When the doctor doesn't know what's wrong with you and you have some of these unclear symptoms, it's a functional disorder, and then it's something mental, and then you need cognitive therapy or psychiatric treatment. Some also get psychopharmaceuticals. We can also see this with the diagnostic code that has been used. That is one of the reasons why we are now also making representations and saying that we want this other diagnostic code, which is also used by the WHO to ensure that from here we send the signal that we recognise the people who have ME, chronic fatigue syndrome, and ensure that you look at the treatment and not just wait and keep doing the same, because the same is not good enough. We have reached agreement on a proposal for adoption. I could have seen it differently, but I thought it would be much better for us to be a united Parliament, all parties that were united, including with the government, to say that we want something else in this area. We can't keep doing this. The people who are at home need help. We know that you don't have a treatment that you can just go in and give them, or that it's easy to figure out. We know it takes different specialties. But we also have to say that it doesn't work just to keep doing what you know is wrong, or that there are practitioners who won't take care of them when they're at home. We know they can't get out of bed, and yet there can be no sick visits. Some of them have a doctor who lives really far away from their own home. We can't be that familiar. There are hospital wards that find it difficult to take care of them. They must be lucky to go somewhere where some people recognize it and try to help them. There was a conference in February where 15 European countries were gathered around ME to find out what is being done in the different countries and how far it has progressed. There is Denmark at the bottom. Sweden and Norway are some of those who can pride themselves on doing a little more than what we do. Sweden has four different departments, special clinics for ME, where the three of them are paid by the government. In Norway, as I said at the beginning, it was Erna Solberg when she was Minister for Health who went to the polls to do something for ME patients. Already in 2011 research started. So they've done something. I do not think that much has happened in Denmark over the many years that have passed. I think that must be the end of this proposal for adoption. We must recognise that there are patients with ME and that the treatment they have received so far is inadequate. We must ensure that we get a treatment, if only try to see what the others in the other countries are doing. We need to ensure that we get the relevant specialty guides updated so that we ensure that it is described in the instructions that the Danish Health Authority sends out. We must also ensure that the WHO diagnostic classification is used. We also need to ensure that, with the new code practice, we distinguish ME from the collective term functional disorders, and then we need to obtain the knowledge we have in other countries. That is what I want to say in my rapporteur's speech. I've spent my time. I should just like to say to the Radicals, Mrs Lotte Rod, that it is important for the Radicals to recognise ME as the somatic disease, so that the many people concerned can be researched and helped in the right way. Then I have a proposal for adoption, which I can announce that all parties are in favour of Flemming Møller Mortensen (S), Liselott Blixt (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), Peder Hvelplund (EL), May-Britt Kattrup (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Lotte Rod (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Mette Abildgaard (KF). Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes: The effort for patients with ME Fatigue Syndrome/CFS (G93.3) is inadequate. Patients experience stigmatisation and do not receive relevant information and treatment offers. The existing treatment for ME patients is far from sufficient and an initiative is being taken to establish specialised treatment for ME. This should be done in a multidisciplinary setup with all relevant specialties and should be organisationally anchored in the somatics. The Danish Health Authority updates all relevant specialist guides across the entire ME disease cycle to ensure that ME/CFS (G93.3) is described in all relevant guidelines. The Danish Health Authority recognises and recommends the use of the WHO's diagnostic classification systems ICD10 and ICD11, which include the diagnosis ME (G93.3, ICD10 and 8E49 in ICD11). The Danish Health Data Protection Agency and the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, with the new code practice, distinguish ME/CFS from the collective term functional disorders. Knowledge is obtained from other countries about initiated treatments of ME/CFS. • V 82).
ParlaMint-DK_20190312193538	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is then part of the debate. Now our secretariat writes it clean, and then it gets distributed. Then that is the text that will be voted on on Thursday when we have to adopt a final position on the proposal. However, we are in the particular situation, one might say that when there is only one proposal for adoption, it is probably not so much a debate as it gives. But it is something of a special effort that has been made to bring together all parties, one might say. Thank you for that to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Now we move on to the ordinary rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312193615	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Minister and thank Mrs Liselott Blixt for this question. We tend to call things something, even in the Danish language, so that we do not understand what it is. ME doesn't say much in itself, but I actually think that chronic fatigue syndrome says everything. And if you have a friend, if you have an acquaintance, if you know someone who suffers from chronic fatigue syndrome, ME, then you have such an understanding of how everyday life and how life has changed and is in a very narrow setting. I can also see that there may be variation. Not everyone is lying in bed, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says. Here, too, we must be careful not to set up a framework for how ME patients should feel, because there is also a great deal of variation. I already said in the opening comment to the Minister that the Social Democrats are delighted that we have a joint proposal for adoption. It is the case that broad political decisions and signals move things in quite a different way than if there is a political narrowness about it. Those who had to sit here and attend our question should also know that such a common text does not just come from themselves; it has actually been really complicated, but the greater the joy of having a common text today, which lays new traces for the ME patients. And that has been a great social democratic wish. Our society, our health care, must be able to do something very special. We pride ourselves on our democracy and the fact that there must be room for everyone, and we should like to have a health service where there is free and equal access. And therefore, as a basic condition, there must be understanding for all patients. I think the strongest thing about our proposal for adoption today, and the fact that we are united, is that we show an understanding of the ME patients. It is not a small group no, it actually says up here that somewhere between 10,000 and 20,000 patients suffer from chronic fatigue syndrome. And as I said, if you've met them, you know how difficult their everyday life can be. We in the Socialist Group want to see an increased focus on ME, in the same way that we also want it in relation to patients with other diseases who are in the same, challenging and difficult situation, that you cannot just measure and weigh or take a blood sample or take an X-ray to get a safe diagnosis. Our health services must have that understanding. It is an expectation on my part that this is what makes us say today that it may well be that there are things that are difficult in setup and structure, but that challenge has to be solved and broken. And we must also ensure that the offer is organised with a geographical spread which gives the proximity that is such an important element from the point of view of social democracy when we have to structure our health services. And when we talk about what needs to be expected of our health care, it is, of course, that both investigation, treatment and rehabilitation get a boost. And then we also want to see this as an example of not leaning back. As I said to the Minister at the beginning: I think we should try to help each other with helping the Danish Health Service to become more robust so that they can have the proactivity that I wanted more. I think we need to strengthen our health services. It is becoming more and more complex to keep track of what is going on throughout the disease field, both in terms of investigation, treatment, rehabilitation and medical development. But I think it should be an expectation and a claim to our society and our health care that this can happen. We must be careful that we cannot also support stigmatisation politically, because there is a lot of talk about prejudice and stigmatisation around ME. We must be careful that we do not come to the debate today to trample some other large groups a little underfoot in stigmatisation, in that very much disease development has both a psychological, a psychiatric and a physical and physiological context. We must take that recognition with us, but I think that the tracks are perfectly right in this proposal for adoption. And I want to thank you all for your success.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194134	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann, and Mrs Jane Heitmann comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194150	Thank you for that, President. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on the question. As a government-leading party, we in the Left always welcome both broad agreements and agreed texts. And this is an important debate about an often slightly overlooked patient group, despite the fact that the Danish Health Authority believes that somewhere between 10,000 and 20,000 suffer from chronic fatigue syndrome. When we talk about chronic fatigue syndrome, all too often we hear about patients who are for one reason or another not feeling seen or heard or taken seriously at all. And it doesn't work in a modern health care system. I'm not a doctor, so I don't have to be smart about symptoms or investigation, and the way I understand the typical patient picture, there's no typical patient picture. Symptoms can be diffuse, both biological, psychological and social conditions can influence the direction in which the disease develops. Today, patients with chronic fatigue syndrome find their way to health care through several channels. General practitioners play a crucial role, but also specialists and various departments in our hospitals play a role. And our health care is complex. I understand that some people are losing their lives during long investigation, especially if the investigation does not result in concrete treatment initiatives. The status quo is grueling and tiresome in itself, especially if you experience that your credibility is compromised or you are stigmatized, pointed at fingers or experience that you are being held out in a stretched arm. The Danish Health Service has made a number of recommendations. The most significant initiative is the creation of interdisciplinary centres in all regions targeted patients with functional disorders. And it makes sense to bring together several professional groups under the same roof: psychologists, ergotherapists, physiotherapists and medical generalists, if you may say so. Two regions, the Capital Region and the Central Jutland Region, have already opened up centres. The last three regions will open centres during 2019 because coherence is particularly important for this patient group. Many patients suffering from chronic fatigue syndrome feel stigmatised due to the diagnostic code. We know, among other things. the problems from past discussion about tranned, which also felt stigmatised due to the diagnostic code. I am both pleased and proud that the former Minister for Health of the Left, Sophie Løhde, had this changed into a non-stigmatizing code. During 2019, the diagnostic code for patients with functional disorders will be changed to a neutral diagnostic code. With the new code practice, we distinguish ME or fatigue syndrome from the collective term functional disorders. I would like to stress that we in the Left support the proposal for adoption, but at the same time it is important for me also to stress that today we are going against past practices by separating ME or chronic fatigue syndrome. We are directly opposed to the recommendations of the Danish Health Service. I would like to quote a section of the letter sent today by the Danish Health Service to the Danish Parliament's Health Committee. I quote: From an overall assessment of both available knowledge in the field and the scientific consensus, the Danish Health Authority cannot therefore recommend that chronic fatigue syndrome be removed from the functional disorders category, nor can the Danish Health Authority recommend that the use of diagnostic codes be regulated, for example. The G93TAME code attaches importance to recognising certain perceptions of disease related to chronic fatigue syndrome or uses the diagnostic code system to limit treatment to selected multidisciplinary somatic interventions. It is the Danish Health Authority's clear view based on a broad professional consensus, best professional knowledge in the field, domestic and foreign experiences, etc. that a multidisciplinary stigmatisation of patients with chronic fatigue syndrome will do more harm than benefit, quote end. We on the Left will follow the patient group closely, just as no one should be forgotten or squeezed. The Left is pleased that the government has played out with a new health reform and that there is a sharp focus on ensuring a more close and coherent healthcare system. Precisely patients with chronic fatigue syndrome are sad examples of how to get thrown around the system and one hand does not know what the other does. We need to break down the silos so that municipalities, hospitals and general practice can be much better able to coordinate and raise the level of knowledge on both treatment, prevention and rehabilitation. There is a need for strong somatic anchoring and review of relevant specialty guides, so that we get done with stigmatizing expressions. It makes good sense and points in the right direction, so that future patients with chronic fatigue syndrome can feel much more included and taken seriously in the Danish healthcare system. It's all missing. I welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194704	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194712	Thank you very much. Thank you for supporting the proposal for adoption. I am just a little surprised that the rapporteur read out the Health Service's note saying that it will remain under the collective name and not change the diagnostic code. I would like to know: what does the rapporteur mean by what is in the proposal for adoption or what the rapporteur read from the Health Service?
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194735	I fully believe what I said, namely that I would like to emphasise that we in the Left support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194745	Then we thank Mrs Jane Heitmann and welcome Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312194755	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question. This is a very important issue, and I know that we have all received several requests from citizens, who emphasise that it is a matter of fundamental living conditions for a large group of people here in Denmark. 10,000-20,000, estimated to be affected by the neurological disorder ME fatigue syndrome. Citizens who have previously had a life without complications now experience symptoms such as exhaustion, pain, migraine, memory and concentration difficulties, fainting, difficulty sleeping, gastrointestinal problems as well as a massive attack on both immune system, hormonal system and nervous system. That sounds violent, and it is also for many of these citizens here. And that is precisely why ME is categorized by leading professionals as a multisystemic disease. In 80%. of the cases is a serious infection the triggering factor. ME is chronic and there is no curative treatment yet. When these patients are met by a health system that does not have the necessary tools to stop disease development and stabilize their ability to function, the majority lose jobs and friends, or at least many of them lose their lives and belief in a future tolerable life. Often they are rejected by doctors and departments because of lack of knowledge and the desire not to take responsibility for such patients. The diagnostic time may be up to 8 years or more. I would now like to quote from one of the approaches we have received, because I think that it is a very good approach to the problem. It is a 40-year-old woman who writes: I miss my friends, I miss traveling, I don't always have to say no to social things, and when I say yes, then having to prepare people for that I might need support to go or someone to drive me home, and that I have to sit down while everyone else gets up when the bride comes into a wedding. But not only do you have to fight to be sick and fight with the municipalities, but you also have to fight prejudices, as we live in a country where you are considered to be lazy, unmotivated or just depressed when you have to spend most of your life in bed or on the couch. Funny enough, I've never heard anyone say to a cancer or sclerosis patient that they should just pull themselves together. We didn't ask for this disease. I was planning a career and was doing a dream study at the university and perhaps family and children. But how could I care for a child when I have days when I can't even wash my own hair or have the power to eat, or when I have so much fog brain that I take medication three times because I can't remember whether I have taken it or when I can't figure out how to turn on the stove because I've forgotten how to do it. It's a quote from a patient suffering from ME. ME is now considered to be a so-called functional disorder in Denmark, along with several other diseases that have nothing in common but that we do not know how to cure them. Patients are offered cognitive therapy and graduated physical training over a comb. ME patients do not experience any positive effects of these offers on their physical condition, and the condition of many even deteriorates significantly. So we can ask whether there is nothing else we can do for these patients who work better, especially now that countries such as Holland, Scotland, England and the United States in their parliament and the health services have decided to move away from these treatment services. The treatment offers in Denmark are also different from what we know from, for example. Norway and Sweden, where the disease is recognised with independent diagnostic criteria and treatment guidelines as the neurological disorder ME according to WHO. This means that there are independent treatment centres with specialized ME services. ME The association itself has set out three requests for future treatment: first of all, recognition of ME according to WHO diagnostic criteria G93.3. In the Enhedslisten we find this a very reasonable requirement. Once the diagnosis is recognised and there is good experience from the official offers in Norway and Sweden and several other countries with which we usually compare, we find it quite natural to recognise the diagnosis. It is unreasonable that citizens suffering from severe symptoms should be subjected to stigmatisation, for example. can not be covered because the diagnosis is not recognised. Secondly, we want a stop to what we consider to be a mistreatment of ME patients. Again, there are clear experiences from abroad showing that significantly better results can be achieved with more specialised and targeted ME treatment. Cognitive treatment can be a good tool to master the loss of functional ability, but it should not be the first offer when both correct diagnosis and relevant explanation are not in place. Finally, there is a desire to review the treatment offers in order to benefit from the experience gained from, among other things, Sweden with more specialized offers. It would be extremely useful to gain experience from the countries where specialised somatic offers have been created and benefit from them with an ME-targeted treatment offer and updated diagnostic guidelines, which Danish ME patients are now completely without. I am thinking in particular of the most painful and bedridden patients left to themselves without the help of local authorities and doctors. We can and must do better. Therefore, it is very reasonable requirements that the ME Association here raises and that we will continue to support in the Enhedslisten. We can also work on them from the platform of the proposal for adoption that is there. And then I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they also support the considerations I have set out here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195342	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195350	Thank you. When Danish patients turn to the Danish healthcare system, they should be taken seriously. It is useless for patients to bring in a disorder, and if you cannot find out what they are doing, you just say that it is going on on top of their heads and then put it in something you call functional disorders, which patients are at least perceived as a trash can. It just can't do anything. We actually saw the same thing with the hpv vaccine, where there came some girls who had some terrible diseases and experiences, they were feeling really bad, and they just weren't taken seriously, at least at first. Whether it has something to do with the vaccine or not, you have to take patients seriously, and when they bring some suffering and they want help, of course they have to have it too. I've been asked by hundreds of patients about this and I just haven't had time to answer if I'm to be completely honest. It is certainly not because I do not take it seriously; on the contrary, I take it very seriously. And I am so happy and would like to thank both Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Minister and the rapporteurs for agreeing on these very important measures for this patient group, so that now, as stated in the proposal for adoption that we agreed on, we are taking the initiative to establish specialized treatment of ME, that the Danish Health Authority updates the relevant specialist guides, that the use of the WHO's diagnostic classification system is recognised and recommended, that the Danish Health Authority and the Danish Health Data Board, with the new code practice, separate ME from functional disorders, and that we obtain knowledge from the other countries, where one is apparently more advanced than one is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195553	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no brief comments here either. That is why we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195603	Thank you. You're smart when you know what you don't know. I think that is a very good saying and a very good way of thinking when something is difficult. Our health services must be able to recognise that there is something that we do not know enough about yet. I would like to thank Liselott Blixt very much for putting chronic fatigue on the agenda. I also very much welcome a joint proposal for adoption in which we take the problem seriously. Unfortunately, patients who are diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome are facing many unresolved factors today. No one knows for sure how to treat the patient. It's just known to rest and sleep, for example. do not cause fatigue or fatigue to disappear. No one knows exactly what the cause of the disease is; no medicine is said to be able to help the patient. Furthermore, there may also be differences of opinion between the physician and the patient if there are different perceptions of cause and treatment. A lot of patients have reported this in a lot of inquiries to us. Thank you very much for that. It is good to shout, it is useful to make its voice heard, and it works in our democracy, and that is where I think democracy, fortunately, is better than its reputation, when it is the case that the whole of Denmark is helping to make us all smarter. It is a major problem that there is today disagreement about the cause, diagnosis and treatment between the medical profession and the patient organisations. I understand that it is difficult for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome that the disease is placed under the collective term functional disorders, just as I know that patients with other diagnoses can have exactly the same view. Because when the collective term covers as different symptoms as irritated colon and fibromyalgia, we should consider what kind of signals we are sending. When patients get the impression that the collective term is the character of a dustbin for diseases that we don't really know what to do about, well then we have a job to do. I am fully aware that this particular disease is a difficult one to work with, and I am confident that our health services are doing as well as they can, but we should be able to do more to help these patients. So today's debate is also relevant in order to get an explicit emphasis on the importance of learning about this disease. And once again, thank you to Liselott Blixt for bringing the debate to the Chamber. I think that the proposal for adoption, which we all very surprisingly agree on, is a very good step along the way. It is unusual that we all agree on a proposal for adoption, so perhaps I could take this opportunity to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195922	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then we've come to the second round of the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312195931	Thank you. Thank you for your comments along the way. It was not my intention to sum up or repeat much of what I said in the first round, but rather to make myself available for the debate, because the new form slightly makes it a little weird. However, I would also like to say that I think it is a pity that, like and perhaps actually a little artificially, such a desire to speak up disagreements has been created instead of looking at the fact that there is a common proposal for adoption today. I think this is a little too bad, because I really thought that all the forces we have used to make a joint proposal for adoption were an expression of the fact that all the parties in the Folketing recognise in such a way that this is very much about a group for which we can do better in our health services and for which we need to do better in our health services. There may be many feelings and attitudes about the whole term functional disorders, and that is also well expressed in today's debate. I would just like to repeat, in general, some of what I said at the beginning, namely that we should now be careful not to stigmatise some other groups of diagnoses, which are then covered by the collective name, and that we should not, according to the note that we sent to the committee today with the background of the professional contributions from the Danish Health Service, get it illegitimately also sometimes to talk about it under a collective term. I am not saying that in order to be polemical or anything, but there is just such a tendency that sometimes, in order to talk something out, we risk ending up talking something down, and that was actually the reason for the comment I had at the beginning. However, as I said, I will not repeat what I said at the outset, just make myself available for any questions that may be raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312200127	They're overwhelmed. There are no brief comments, so everything has been done very well and thoroughly, and the work has been well done. Then we usually give the rapporteur for the proposers the opportunity to conclude today's debate on this subject. Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312200146	Thank you very much. I thought that instead of asking the Minister questions, I would rather take the floor here and thank everyone and thank the Minister for having a single proposal for adoption. I think it sends a very, very strong signal as to which way we will go for the patient group we have just talked about. So I am really glad that we had the debate today. I am glad that there is work ahead, which everyone supports, and I am sure that we will all follow it and ensure that something is done in this area. So thank you all very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312200227	You're welcome. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. As mentioned earlier, the vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday, 14 March 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190312200247	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 13 March 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
