ParlaMint-DK_20190910130010	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 24 August 2019, it was decided that the responsibility for tasks relating to bookkeeping and accounting, etc., relating to the Kingdom Ombudsman in Greenland, was transferred from the Minister of Finance to the Prime Minister. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 24 August 2019 provides that the responsibility for all tasks relating to bookkeeping and accounting, including creditor and debtor management, preparation of period accounts, management of cashier and liquidity, asset management, accounting of grants in the Navision State, maintenance of the accounting framework in the accounting system, accounting of travel bills, and the preparation of standard management information to support the institutions' governance needs relating to the Greenland Rigsombudsman, is transferred from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister to the Prime Minister per. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Mette Frederiksen The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that with effect from 4 September 2019 it has appointed a member of the Folketing Flemming Møller Mortensen as a new State Auditor for the remainder of the current term of office. The person concerned is then elected. The parliamentary group of the alternative has informed me that the member of the Folketing Torsten Gejl has been appointed as a member of the salary council instead of Carolina Magdalene Maier, and that the member of the Folketing Susanne Zimmer has been appointed as a deputy to the salary council instead of René Gade for the remainder of the current term of office.
ParlaMint-DK_20190910130125	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190910130157	The debate is open. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190910130217	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday 12 September 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
