ParlaMint-DK_20191010100011	The Folketing has been opened. Today there are the following reviews: Morten Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 6 (Will the Minister explain whether, since the conclusion of the special agreement on Europol, Denmark has become a sanctuary for terrorism, trafficking in human beings, child pornography and Eastern European thieves?). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Marie Krarup (DF): Request no. F 7 (Will the government actively take initiatives and, if so, which can prevent the EU Court of Justice's activism from undermining Danish sovereignty in general and Danish alien law in particular?). The titles of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100038	The debate is open. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100051	Thank you. With this amendment to the Law on the Election of Congregation Councils, persons under guardianship who are deprived of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law This is in line with the Parliament's amendment to the law, which was implemented in 2016, and which also meant that persons who are under guardianship, with deprivation of legal capacity, were granted the right to vote in municipal and regional elections and the right to vote in the election of Danish Members to the European Parliament. Finally, it follows on from the legislative amendment that was implemented in 2018, which meant that persons who are under guardianship with partial deprivation of legal capacity were granted the right to vote in elections to the Folketing and in referendums. Based on information from Danmarks Statistik on membership and age distribution for the population as a whole, it is calculated that in an election to the church council there will be approx. 3.5 million voters who are entitled to vote. If, at this stage, the group of persons who are under guardianship and who are deprived of legal capacity had also had the right to vote in the election of the church council, they would have constituted a total of 1,948 persons, and yes, this group of persons would have totaled less than 1%. of the total electoral number. In terms of numbers, this is a small group. In principle, however, it is important for the Social Democrats that the circle of people who have the right to vote for a democratic body should be as broad as possible, especially in the case of a national election in Denmark. Like all other voters, this group of people will also be able to ask for help in voting. In the hearings it can be read that Danske Handicaporganisations, like others, support it and believe that it is positive that the law is amended so that persons who are under guardianship with the exclusion of legal capacity under Article 6 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the In addition, however, Danske Handicaporganisations propose clarification on voting aid, so that the rules correspond to the rules for voting by e.g.: Parliamentary elections, municipal elections and referendums. It is good to read that the Ministry of Church Affairs will include the comments of the hearing in the ongoing work on administrative regulations for the elections in 2020. The second part of the bill deals with new procedures for the destruction of electoral lists, electoral cards and other electoral material. In the future, it will be the Ministry of Churches and not the municipalities of the local public registers that develop and operate the system for the formation of electoral lists and electoral cards for the use of parish elections, i.e. for the electoral assembly and for any electoral elections. Thus, the congregation councils are also given a greater role, since in future it will be the congregation councils that will ensure that electoral lists, electoral cards and ballot papers, etc., will be ensured immediately after expiry of the time limit for appeal or after final decision of any electoral appeal. Destroyed. The bill initiates an authorisation which means that the church minister can lay down detailed rules on the storage and destruction of electoral material. Also on the basis of the consultation process, the Ministry has chosen not to submit the proposal that the decision-making protocol should not be sent to the bishop, and the Ministry has chosen to supplement the draft law's comments in accordance with the consultation responses of the Data Protection Agency and the Digitalisation Board. I'm glad about that, too. As part of the elections in 2020, an electoral assembly will be held in all the parishes. The electoral assembly is part of the new electoral form introduced by law in April 2018. If the bill is adopted, it will take effect in the ordinary elections to the Congregation Councils in 2020. I look forward to it. With those words, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill. I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, and to inform Parliament that the Radicals are also voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100627	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk I drop out). This means that we have no brief comments, because there were two who dropped out. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100650	Thank you. The aim of the proposal we are considering is to ensure a wider democratic representation in the church councils and to change the rules for the destruction of electoral cards and electoral lists to the parish council elections, in connection with IT support being transferred to the People's Church's IT. In 2016, voting rights and voting rights were extended to municipal and regional elections and to parliamentary and European elections. Nowadays, persons may, under guardianship, with the exclusion of legal capacity, e.g.: because they cannot hold their own finances, vote and run for all elections except for congregational elections. It is natural for there to be the same conditions of eligibility and voting rights for congregational elections as for the other elections. However, the Left would like to raise some, you might say, concerns. In elections to the Folketing and the like, the parties shall nominate candidates and ensure that they are quorums. Parties do not in the same way nominate candidates for congregational elections, and it is therefore interesting how to ensure the same quality assurance in congregational elections and how to help congregation councils if challenges arise. The Left will follow this closely in the committee to ensure that the congregation councils in Denmark remain operational. The amendments made by the proposal to the guidelines for election cards and electoral lists in connection with the election of the Council of Congregations imply that the Ministry of Churches, i.e. in practice The It of the People's Church, forward-looking will develop and operate the system for the formation of these lists and election cards. In the Left we would like to see such tasks in principle open to tender, but unfortunately it has not succeeded in including the parish elections in KL's invitations to tender by holding elections. And in this case, where it has to be reordered, the price of the private firm in question will far exceed the public price. Therefore, the result has been that the It of the People's Church develops and operates the system for the formation of electoral lists and electoral cards for congregational elections. It is therefore also proposed that in future it will be the church councils that will ensure that electoral lists, ballot cards and ballot papers etc. subsequently destroyed. The draft law provides for uniform rules for the eligibility of parish elections in relation to the other elections. In addition, the bill provides a solution to the fact that KL did not include the parish council elections in their provision of IT solutions in connection with elections and referendums. On this basis, the Left supports the bill and can vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100934	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010100938	Thank you. The Left rapporteur said that the parties are proposing candidates for other elections and that this should be a quality assurance. Well, I'd like to question that. How can it be quality assurance that the parties stop them? That is one question. The second is that there is also access to the possibility that individuals can run for all elections in Denmark. So it is, after all, the individual who decides whether to be a candidate, and it happens sometimes that individuals are elected. What is behind the problem of quality assurance? Well, we are all equal people, and a person who cannot control his own economy may well be quite good in a church council, regardless of whether a party has approved him or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101025	But, of course, anyone can stand for election and, as the questioner also says, in several cases you can also be elected finely and well and fully support it. So there is the fact that it is also good that we have set up our democratic system as we have built it up now and are behind it completely so we have parties running our lines, and then you can just as well run for yourself, as the questioner says. So there's support for both.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101049	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101051	What I was asking was that the rapporteur calls it a quality assurance, that it is the parties that set up. I think we have many examples of this not necessarily being quality assurance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101104	It is certainly possible that the questioner has plenty of examples of this, but I also think there are plenty of good examples that we have our fantastic democratic system, which is part of our democracy. And we think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101119	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101133	L 5 is a follow-up to some legislative changes implemented in 2016-2018, which have extended the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in parliamentary elections and other elections with certain people who otherwise have not had these rights because they are under guardianship, i.e. In the field of economics, the Court held that the Court of First Instance did not have jurisdiction to rule on the interpretation of Article 85 (1) of the Treaty. These are changes supported by the Danish People's Party, and they are a very small group of people. It would seem very strange, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, if people who have the right to vote and are eligible to stand for election in parliament could not have the same thing for the election of the church councils, provided that they are members of the people's church. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support the bill, but we in the Danish People's Party will recommend that the consequences of the law be followed very closely so that it can be evaluated what the consequences are. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101238	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on. The next rapporteur is, as the Radicals have expressed their views, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101303	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The bill here has two elements in it. The first concerns the right to vote for persons under guardianship who are deprived of their legal capacity. In the SF, we are very pleased with the proposal because it has long been an objective for us to give citizens under guardianship their right to vote. For us, it is another step towards the equality of people, including with disabilities or other difficulties in life, that they are equal in that way, so that everyone over 18 years of age has an opportunity to participate in our democracy. So we also regard this as another small victory, because in a well-functioning democracy all citizens should have the opportunity to participate in the democratic arenas, and this certainly applies to the congregation councils. The church councils are an important part of the local anchoring, and they are instrumental in strengthening local citizenship, which we in the SF can only support. The second part of the bill concerns the handling of electoral lists and electoral cards. We have noted that the instructions on data processing are being taken into account and we support the fact that the Church Ministry will be responsible for the development and operation of the system in the future. But, of course, we need clear guidance on how to deal with the lists, so that we ensure that they do not end up in the wrong hands. In short, the SF therefore agrees with the solutions and votes in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101438	There were no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101454	The Enhedslisten can support that people under guardianship have the right to vote to the extent that they wish to participate in church council elections and that the administration around the electoral process itself is decentralized. That is how I understand this proposal. We have no need to give grades to people under guardianship and say that it should be better for them to be approved in a party, as the Left says, or for that matter that there must be special evaluations in order for this group of citizens to have the right to vote; we do not think that is necessary. We're all equal in this context, and we all have different backgrounds, qualifications and abilities. And it is also the case that most of us who have tours for schools or others would like to stop at the constitutions of the Walking Hall and tell about how democracy has developed rather slowly in Denmark from 1849 where only somewhere between 12 and 18 per cent. the right to vote, and where one worked so slowly towards that one did not actually have to own one's own home to have the right to vote; even if one had been in prison and also if one was a woman, one could have the right to vote in Denmark. That development is, of course, an important historical baggage to carry. And we are actually standing in here as I can see it with the last step towards all citizens having the right to vote. Of course, we have some who come from other countries to our country who have to wait for a period of time under the rules that have been introduced. I think it is important to take the discussion, particularly with young people who come to parliament, to explain to them that things do not come from themselves, nor from a democracy, and that things can disappear again. That is why it is important for us to be concerned about expanding democracy all the time, so that citizens have as equal and as direct access as possible to influence the life they live and the society in which they live. So we can support these two proposals that people under guardianship should have the right to vote in elections to the church councils, and that the administration of electoral lists and electoral cards etc. should be decentralized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101720	There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Christian Juhl. And then it's sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101728	Thank you for that, President. After all, the bill here about people under guardianship is a natural extension of the law, which was implemented in 2016 and 2018 in relation to municipal elections, parliamentary elections and European Parliament elections. It is quite natural that we now also give the same people access to the council elections. Anything else would be completely unreasonable. When we do that, it is also because it matters to these people that they have the opportunity, if they as voters want it, to be part of a congregation council too. So that's one part of it. The second part is that, with effect from April 2018, we have made a choice based on an electoral assembly, where you also have the possibility of triggering a vote, and if you do so, it is in future the Church Ministry's • Church Ministry's It • who is responsible for that process, and I think that is quite reasonable. The Conservative People's Party supports around L 5.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101847	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. Then it's Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101858	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. The alternative is generally favourable to the proposal. However, we note that the rules on helping voters to vote who, due to their inability, infirmity or the like, need to do so should be included in the administrative regulations for the 2020 elections, so that they correspond to the rules on voting by e.g. Parliamentary elections and local elections. In other words, we believe that there must be the same rules for voting in a church council as there is in a parliamentary or municipal elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101932	Thank you for that, sir. Sikandar Siddique. And I'd like to say here to Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010101945	Of course, when you are not an adult and therefore cannot take responsibility for your own life and your own economy, you should not have the authority to take responsibility for someone else's. That is the clear position of the New Citizen. We learn that in 2016 the Danish Parliament made it possible for people under economic guardianship to vote in and stand for elections to municipalities, regional councils and the European Parliament, and that the Danish Parliament amended the guardianship law at the end of 2018 so that citizens who are unable to manage their own economy had the right to vote in referendums and in parliamentary elections and thus the right to influence other people's finances. Had we been sitting in the Folketing in the last parliamentary term, we would, of course, have voted against both amendments. The votes of democracy must consist of fully-fledged citizens with full legal capacity. Therefore, we cannot support this draft law amending the law on the election of congregational councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102054	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102058	Forgive me for saying so, but it was a very unpleasant view: that there is a large group of voters who can then be said to be able to decide on anything. I would say: Danes are different in many ways, and there are some Danes who can put a cross on a map without knowing what they are voting for and without knowing the consequences of that vote, but as per. definition has the right to vote because they are citizens of our society. I believe that if you separate some people because they are unable to cope with their own economy, they often have helpers or guardians, and that is what they have in this situation with the elections. That is why I find it quite, quite strange and quite unpleasant to have the attitude towards these quite few people in our society, which is the last remnant who do not have the right to vote. Everyone else has the right to do whatever they want, no matter how crazy they vote. I think that is an unpleasant point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102156	In my view, it is a more unpleasant view that one expects that then it must be the guardian who takes responsibility. Now it is the guardian who takes responsibility for the individual's finances. Should it also be the guardian who gave advice on how to vote? And should it then be the guardian who in principle had the opportunity of two votes? No, of course not. And I do not really like the idea that, as a society, there are some people who cannot take care of their own economy, but that they should then be given responsibility both for parliamentary elections, for municipal elections and also for parliamentary elections, which are at stake here, in relation to taking care of others', including the appointment of priests, etc. So what is unpleasant, Enhedslisten and New Civilians obviously have different views on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102247	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102248	I'm speechless. I have no further comments to make. Mrs Pernille Vermund's views must speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102255	Then it is Mrs Julie Skovsby for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102302	Thank you. After all, as rapporteur, I have been back to read the debates from 2016 and 2018, and I understand that Mrs Pernille Vermund also has, and that if you could go back, the party would not have supported the two legislative changes. But I just need to hear it because there's a difference between the two if it doesn't make any difference to the party that in 2018 a new guardianship arrangement was made compared to what was in 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102349	The new guardianship scheme, which provides such a partial guardianship, therefore, where it is only part of your economy that you do not have control over yourself, does not change the fact that it is your financial situation that you are not responsible for, because you cannot and are not competent to take responsibility for it, and that we are now extending the responsibility of this person to the economy of others. Of course, if you cannot take responsibility for your own economy in whole or in part, you should not be jointly responsible for others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102419	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mrs Pernille Vermund. Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102430	Thank you for the floor. Under Bill L 5, persons who have been deprived of legal capacity under Paragraph 6 of the Law on Guardians shall have the right to vote in the Council of Congregations. And as has also been mentioned earlier, L 5, which we are discussing today, is a continuation of previous legislation from 2016 and 2018. We must acknowledge that we have at least had a very thorough discussion in our parliamentary group that it is quite strange that people who, due to lack of judgment, are not allowed to manage their own economy should be allowed to manage the state's economy. To put it bluntly, it is a lack of seriousness. This shows a lack of consistency in the understanding of what it means that one cannot manage one's economy, although of course there can also be arguments democratically, as several rapporteurs have done along the way in dealing with this bill. So, having considered things carefully in our parliamentary group, we have decided that we cannot support the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102612	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102616	Let us return to the previous work of the Danish Parliament in 2018 and 2016. One time, the Liberal Alliance voted against and the other time for. And now I understand how to vote here and now. But why have different votes been taken? I'm gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102642	I can be absolutely frank and reveal that it is because, when you sit in a coalition government, you agree on various things and matters in this government's coordination committee and, as a result of the agreements that were reached, we have therefore had a rather shaky attitude on this issue. It is not easy, because these arguments for democracy that have been put forward are not without weight. But we end up thinking that one simply has to take oneself seriously, so to speak. Well, here are some people who, in the eyes of the court, cannot manage their own economy. Then why do they have to manage others?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102727	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102729	Perhaps I can get the rapporteur to elaborate a little. So, was it because you sat in government in 2018 that you voted in favour? Because you were not in government when the amendment to the law was about local and regional elections and elections to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102755	Yes, that is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102800	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102802	I think that there is usually a little more logic in what the Liberal Alliance argues with. I mean, even in a situation where we have people in Denmark who have grossly misridden the common fortunes within a financial capital I would just like to mention money laundering, tax havens, VAT carousels, etc. Even if they go to prison, they still have their right to vote. In 1849 some thought that if you did not own your own house and if you had been in prison, and if you were a woman, then you should not have the right to vote because it was irresponsible to the way society operates. I do not know how old-fashioned LA will formulate its arguments gradually if it is the case that a maximum of 1,900 people are not even allowed to vote for a church council election. Well, I mean, it's grotesque, it doesn't add up. There are totally irresponsible people at the top of society who have the right to vote, and then there are some people here who cannot even vote for a council election.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102908	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010102910	As far as criminals are concerned, we of course believe that rehabilitation must always be an option. So it is gratifying that economic criminals too can be rehabilitated, and that is the general objective of the administration of justice. So, of course, we support that. Of course, one should not be deprived of one's political rights if one is, as it were, a bad person. In moral terms bad people must of course have their political rights, but I also think that the Folketing should take itself seriously. And to take themselves seriously, then, it is also true that here, according to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the guardianship law, there are people who simply cannot understand their own economy. As far as I know, the Enhedslisten is also willing to take action against people who take quick loans because they cannot understand their own economy. So you might as well say that here there is someone who cannot understand his economy, and we are taking action against that. But here it is people who, in the eyes of the courts, cannot understand their own economy. Why should they influence the economy of everyone else?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103017	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103018	We do not intervene against people who take quick loans. We are taking action against the greed behind those who set up quick loans. It is a difference and a quite different thing. I don't judge financial people as good or bad. I am just saying that they have certainly not been able to run the financial world responsibly when we look at the examples we have here, and therefore I would like us to intervene against such people by restricting precisely the possibilities of doing such crazy things. In this case, on the other hand, there are some who have no possibility of doing much damage to the public economy, not even to the church's economy, and we should not allow them to vote. I think that's grotesque.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103101	Well, you can have different views on that, and that is also why we fortunately have different parties. I do not believe that political rights should be linked to ethical issues. Where we are now, it is, of course, a professional assessment of human judgment, in other words, where it has been assessed professionally that there is simply a lack of discernment here. And if you don't have this judgment in your own affairs, I don't see why you should suddenly have discernment in relation to other people's finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103135	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103138	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Liberal Alliance, as the freedom-loving party we know it as, does not believe that freedom applies to everyone in this society • the freedom to participate as an active citizen, which is so essential part of our democracy and about the Liberal Alliance, that we should exclude that group of citizens. How does this prospect of freedom relate to this view?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103206	After all, freedom is absolutely inseparable from responsibility. That is also why people who are 5 or 7 years old and maybe believe in Santa Claus have no political rights either. It is because you cannot say that a person of 5 or 7 years of age can be given responsibility. A person who is under guardianship is under guardianship because the person cannot be held liable. And when you cannot be given responsibility to your own economy, it is very difficult for me and for us in the Liberal Alliance to understand that you can then be given responsibility to the economy of others. So it is a matter of freedom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103246	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103248	Thank you. Freedom and responsibility can, of course, be interpreted in many ways, depending on what political observance we have and where we belong. However, I note that the Liberal Alliance does not want people to really have the right to take part in the democracy that we have and to choose who is to represent them. It is the case that church and state in Denmark are not separated, and as a citizen one should also have the right and the right to be actively involved in the local church and the local church council. So I am still puzzled by the issue of freedom and freedom for all people in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103331	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103331-2	Well, I am sure that it would benefit the Socialist People's Party if there were more people who could not know the difference between one million and one billion who had political rights. But it is just the case that if you do not have the slightest insight into your own economy, you should not, of course, be able to control other people's finances either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103351	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the acting minister of church.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103400	Thank you, President. In fact, allow me to begin by expressing my special thanks for the goodwill that has been shown in the House with regard to the four draft legislations that have been tabled and the three subsequent proposals that I have had to join on short notice as acting minister of the church, and so it has been very beneficial that we have been able to bring together the legislative proposals in the area of the Ministry of Church and the Ministry of Transport in this way, and I would like to thank you very much for that. I would also like to stress, of course, that I am quite new in this area, but I would like to express my thanks for the goodwill of the parties' rapporteurs in relation to the particular situation. I would also like to thank you for the sympathetic reception that has been given to the draft law. It has, moreover, been a very interesting and fundamental debate, especially towards the end. Thanks to the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party for their commitment to support the bill. The draft law gives legal guardians who are deprived of legal capacity under the legal guardianship law and who, moreover, fulfil the voting conditions, the opportunity to vote in the parish council elections and, as many have mentioned, this is thus an equality and a natural extension of the legislative changes implemented in 2016 and 2018. I would like to make a few comments to the individual rapporteurs. Sir. Erling Bonnesen raises a concern, on behalf of the Left, about the quality assurance of candidates for the election of the Council of Congregations, and there is, of course, the way in which each member of the National Church can propose himself as a candidate, and it is through the presentation of the candidates and the debate between the church and the candidates at that meeting that it is ensured that those entitled to vote learn about the candidates and hence their opinions and qualifications before voting on who should be a member of the Council of Congregations. That's what the framework is now. However, if the Left wishes it to be further developed in the subsequent committee procedure, we will, of course, do so. Mrs Marie Krarup, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, wants the consequences of the bill to be followed. I think that is a natural thing to do, and that is, of course, a comment that I have taken note of. Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, on behalf of the SF, highlights the element of equality, the strengthening of citizenship, and these are points of view which I can only endorse. Sir. On behalf of Enhedslisten, Christian Juhl gave a more historical perspective on turnout, and I also think it is good to highlight the principle of it, so thank you for that. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, on behalf of the Alternative, argued that uniform voting rules should be sought, and this is about the electoral procedure itself, and I can say that this will be reflected in the administrative regulations. This is, of course, a point of view that we are also taking with us. I did not mention, moreover, that the alternative has also indicated that we want to vote in favour. I'll keep that in mind, so thank you for that too. Then there were a few interesting word exchanges in relation to the speeches of the New Citizens and the Liberal Alliance. I think it is good that we also have the more fundamental debate. I also think that Mr. Henrik Dahl should be given special praise for highlighting Liberal Alliance positions, I believe that they have been expressed in a wavering way. It is of course interesting to follow the party's internal discussions within and outside the government and the honesty that is about it in relation to Mr. Henrik Dahl's remarks about children and childish souls' belief in Santa Claus, which I do think is worth highlighting, as Denmark actually has freedom of religion. This does not interfere with whether people believe in Santa Claus or not, because this is actually something they have the right to do, and it does not affect your ability to participate in votes or turnouts. In addition, there are a number of minor technical changes to this, to which I have noted a broad consensus, which is why I am also looking forward to further discussion with the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103925	There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103941	The debate is open. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010103956	Under-financing for pensions has arisen because the life expectancy has increased significantly compared to the pre-2007 calculations. Of course, the longer lifespan of church officials is a welcome thing, but it is also important to ensure the quality of the budgets and focus on an investment policy for the pension assets, and that is why this bill is a good proposal that Social Democracy can support. At the heart of the Social Democratic Party is the fact that a solidarity solution has been found to the problem of a burden which is unevenly distributed between the country's church council. If other solutions are considered, it should be borne in mind that, as a general rule, the church funds do not have freedom of choice for the use of civil servants and, therefore, by increasing the pension contribution, will be forced to bear the burden of the church funds where there has been a phasing-out of civil servants. The group of official church officials consisted in 2018 of approx. 800 church officials and approx. 1,300 persons entitled to a pension. As regards the pension contribution rate of 18.4%. I share the view that it should be maintained and that it is totally unrealistic to raise the contribution rate to 91.5%. to finance future commitments to the 800 active civil servants. It is also of great importance to us in the Social Democratic Party that the chosen solution is proposed on the recommendations of the budget follow-up group, which consists of representatives of the economic stakeholders of the people's church. As I have said, the budget follow-up group consists of representatives of the economic stakeholders of the people's church, and it advises the church minister on the budget for the joint fund. Thus, both in the preparation of the solution and in the context of the consultation on the bill, there has been broad support among the authorities and stakeholders of the church for the bill that lies here. In addition to the fact that the bill deals with future funding of the pension obligation for civil servants church officials, it is also a question of a political future investment of the pension assets. Under current legislation, the Joint Fund is not empowered to pursue an active investment policy for the pension assets. Therefore, it is proposed that the growing pension assets can be managed through an active investment policy within the applicable rules, which the church minister is empowered to set. The aim is to place capital in order to ensure the placement and the best possible return for the benefit of the members of the church. In this context, it is natural that the investment takes place on an ethical and socially sound basis, taking into account that the payments to the pension fund are financed by the church tax and thus by the members of the church. That part, of course, also supports social democracy. Then I should like to look into the Chamber and say that I welcome the radical rapporteur, Mrs Marianne Jelved, and say that the Radicals are also in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104400	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there are no brief comments, we move on to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104412	Thank you. Today we are discussing a bill on the financing of the pension obligation of civil servants church officials and on the investment policy for the pension assets of the joint fund. The Common Fund is the common fund of the People's Church, where, since 2007, current and former civil servant church officials have paid pension contributions. A new calculation from 2018 with updated figures for among others. life expectancy, pension patterns and remuneration show that this scheme has been underfunded and that it will require a significant increase in the pension contributions of the church funds if the common fund is to cover the financing of future pension liabilities. In addition, with the current legislation, the Joint Fund is not empowered to pursue an active investment policy for the pension assets. That is why the draft law here includes, among other things: a retention of the pension contributions of the church funds at the current level of 18.4%. of the pensionable wage. The remaining part, where there is a lack of funding, is proposed by the Joint Fund and this part of the pension expenditure will, where appropriate, have to be covered by the national church tax or by compensatory savings on the other items of expenditure of the Joint Fund. There is an authorisation for the Minister of Churches to lay down detailed rules for the placement of the common fund's liquidity, insurance reserve and pension provision, etc. The aim of this action is to allow the Joint Fund to pursue a more active investment policy in order to ensure the best possible return on paid pension contributions. The draft law provides for the financing of the future pension obligations of the Joint Fund by civil servants in the Danish National Church, and for a freer investment policy in the Joint Fund to ensure the best possible return on paid pension contributions. This solution will also help to help the small parishes who would otherwise be incredibly hard pressed financially. We support that in the Left. However, we find it regrettable that it seems necessary to raise the church tax instead of finding the solution within the church • but that is the way it is. Against this background, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104647	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104658	The draft law provides for an adjustment of the pension obligations of civil servants employed by church officials, so that the part which has proved not to be covered by the present scheme can be covered by the common fund. At the same time, the law allows the Joint Fund to pursue an active investment policy for the pension assets. Both proposals are, in the opinion of the Danish People's Party, an expression of due diligence in relation to problems to be solved. The Danish People's Party can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104731	Thank you to Mrs Krarup. And we move on to Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104741	Thank you. The proposed bill has been put in the world to resolve a problem that has created a imbalance in the distribution of pension liabilities and, in fact, also under-financing among the country's church council. Fortunately, the consultations have shown broad support for the proposal among the authorities and other stakeholders of the church, and since we in the SF see this as a solution of solidarity, which has otherwise been challenged by the different distribution of civil servants, we can of course vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104817	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010104832	This proposal to move some of the cost of retirement in the public church has Enhedslisten no special comments on. Of course, it is always sensible to find more solidarity solutions, and as long as the costs are kept within what should be called the "members' own council area, you can either save other places if there is extra costs, or increase the church tax. It would be quite unreasonable for me, at least personally, to interfere in what solution was chosen as a member of the people's church. But I think it is sensible to find solutions which are mutually supportive. Now, in my past as a trade unionist in 3F, I have negotiated for the people who go to the cemetery and do the physical work, and I can see that there is a significant class difference between a priest and a horticultural worker who works in the cemetery, in other words, in terms of salary and pension. And that is something we can only encourage the trade unions to do something about, so there is a certain amount of compensation going on there. However, it has nothing to do with this proposal. However, we have no objections to the bill in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105002	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We move on to Mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105007	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here is, of course, a guarantee of the pension of the 800 civil servants and officials who are in this area. The 2007 decision does not, of course, prove to be in a position to keep pace with the expenditure on pensions, which means that we are in deficit, and that is why we need to show a timely solution here, and this is done by maintaining the pension contributions of the church funds for civil servants, church officials, at the current level of 18.4%. and allow the common fund of the church to cover the remainder of the commitment. The fact is that before 2007 it was the common fund that covered it, and what we can see here is that now it is the case that it has to be covered by the common fund, and it may be through the national church tax, it may be through the free resources of the common fund, or it may be through compensatory savings in the other items of expenditure of the common fund. That makes sense. The common fund will then have an opportunity which they do not have in the current legislation, namely to make an active investment for the pension assets of the fund, and this means that there will probably be a return on the wealth, which will then help to cover these pension costs. It also makes very good sense, so the Conservative People's Party supports L 6.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105150	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105158	Thank you for the floor. The alternative does not want to support one religion over others and seeks equality between the church and other recognized religions. Applicable legislation ensures that the Danish National Church as the only religion in Denmark may levy taxes in Denmark. Church tax, however, is paid only by members of the church, and the common fund is financed primarily through the church tax. Despite the special status of the church, we believe it is important that a solution be found for the approx. 200-300 civil servants, so that the individual churches do not end up having to dismiss civil servants because their church fund cannot cover the rising pension contributions. We therefore support the proposal to allow the common fund to finance the higher pension burden through an increase in the national church tax and through the use of part of the common fund's free capital. We also support the ethically and socially sound investment of pension funds, provided that this can be guaranteed by the formulation of genuine ethical guidelines and that it is not merely based on the corresponding work of the founders' capital management. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105318	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105323	We find it in New Civil Happy that the life expectancy of the clergy has increased. It is, of course, less gratifying that the return on pension funds has not increased accordingly. However, following on from previous rapporteurs' descriptions of the draft law, we believe it is right to ensure a solidarity solution to a financial burden which is currently unevenly distributed between the country's church council. That is why we support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105357	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105404	Thank you. I am the last rapporteur in line, and many good things have already been said about this bill. I will not waste Parliament's time repeating them. But it is a matter of our hearts in the Liberal Alliance that priests can face a secure old age, and that is why we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why it is now the acting minister of the church. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105437	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the very sympathetic reception of the draft law, and this applies to all the parties of the Folketing. Thank you so much. It is, in fact, a legislative proposal whose background is an extremely positive problem, namely that we live longer. And, as many rapporteurs have pointed out, there is therefore also a need to set aside more pension funds in order to meet the pension obligations of the people's church. And just for the record, the pension obligation does not refer to clergymen, but to church officials. Nevertheless, it is important that we ensure this pension obligation. One comment, I think, should follow on from Mr. Erling Bonnesen's comments on the possibility of raising the church tax. There I think it is worth emphasising that it will be a local decision whether to raise the church tax or instead to reclassify it. So it is not certain that that is what has to be the solution. So it is a local decision. But with these words I look forward to the further examination of the committee and thank you for your kind reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105609	Since there are no brief comments, we thank the acting minister for the church. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105624	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010105637	Thank you for the floor, President. On 14 January 2014, the then government of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party entered into agreement with Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti on a modern railway: coining the Togfonden DK. The new railway on West Funen is part of the Train Foundation DK's phase one. With Togfonden DK, the Danes get a faster and more modern railroad that ensures that the country is more connected. The train fund DK's massive investment in new rails and faster connections together with electrification of the Danish rail network will mean that you can drive in modern climate-friendly electric trains of 1 hour between the largest cities. The agreement included, among other things: decided to initiate a vvm study for the project with a new railway over West Funen, and on 7 September 2017 the conciliation group behind the Togfonden DK concluded an agreement to extend the Togfonden DK by 2 billion. kr. In this context, it decided that the new railway should be built in the northern route. As you know, the Social Democratic Party together with the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left fought long with the previous government to get the track across West Funen on the Finance Act and to get a construction law presented. It is therefore gratifying that the proposal for a construction law for the track is now finally being discussed in the Folketing. So what is it that is being built? The new double-track electrified railway over West Funen will be approx. 35 km long and will allow shorter travel times by shortening the railway line between Odense and Middelfart by approx. 4 km and possible maximum speed up to 250 km/h. The new railway will essentially be located north of the existing motorway and will be located in a corridor close to the motorway. A common transport corridor would reduce the overall nuisance of the environment of the two transport infrastructure installations in relation to a situation where motorway and rail are separated. What's the new railroad going to mean? Today, the line between Middelfart and Odense is one of the most busy sections on the rail network. In addition to lightning and intercity traffic, the line is also used for local trains as well as for significant freight traffic. The new railway over West Funen will be used primarily by passenger trains passing through, while the existing railway on West Funen, following the opening of the new high-speed rail line, is expected to be used mainly for regional and freight trains. The new track over West Funen will enable slow-moving freight trains to be separated from fast passenger trains. A mix-up which today results in a significant reduction in the capacity of the line. The track thus makes it possible both to drive faster between our parts of the country, for example. between Copenhagen and Aarhus, and at the same time the track also relieves local and regional traffic on West Funen, which has long been overloaded. So the track comes both travelers between our parts of the country, but also passengers on Funen for the benefit of our country, and it makes our country more connected. It is expected that travel time will be reduced by up to 5 minutes. It will, however, include: Depending on the specific driving characteristics of the train equipment of the future, which is not yet known. But this is where the parties of the Folketing have to work to secure the purchase of electric trains without repeating the mistakes of the past. Of course, the Social Democratic Party can and will be happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110009	Thank you to the rapporteur. Since there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110024	Thank you. The bill here authorizes the Minister of Transport to build a new double-track electrified railway, a high-speed railway, over West Funen, from Odense West to Kauslund East of Middelfart. At the same time, the draft law allows Energinet to restructure their natural gas system in relation to the railway. The track will be 35 km long, and it is budgeted to cost just under 5 billion. kr. Including 30%. in reserve. This should allow the train of the future to run at a speed of up to 250 km/h, knowing that the trains we are abolishing have a maximum. speed at 200 km/h. So it's still future-proof. We will have shorter travel times across Funen, and we will also increase the track capacity on West Funen for the benefit of both the distance trains in national traffic and the regional trains on the existing railway. Around regional trains there has been talk from time to time of closing some stations on West Funen. We have been very sceptical about this in the Left, so it is one of the beneficial effects of the bill here that we now have room for the regional path. In addition to the cost of just under 5 billion. kr. It is also worth noting that there will also be a substantial cost to Energy Networks, which will of course be reorganising, among other things. its gas pipelines, and it is the gas customers who are going to pay it above the tariffs. These are the principles of construction projects, but it should be noted. I have no doubt that the new railway will be a joy and benefit both for passengers in the distance traffic and for the many local commuters between Middelfart and Odense. It is one of the most trafficked sections of our rail network. The new railway will also make a significant contribution to the efficiency and modernisation of railway operations in general and, at the same time, the new railway will ensure a more robust train system because there will simply be more capacity in that bottleneck. So that's good for a lot of people. But there is also a reverse of the medal, which we must not hide on such a happy day here, when we are discussing the bill, and it is, of course, that such a facility by its very nature affects a great many citizens; a great many pilots on this stretch are affected by it. It is estimated that up to 55 properties are to be completely expropriated and up to 235 properties are affected by having to leave land for land as it is called. It is expected that 45 ha will be used temporarily during construction and 235 ha will be used permanently for this construction project. So a lot of people are affected by this. And it is important for the Left also when we consider what is in the Constitution that we treat these pilots properly; they need proper treatment. Of course, there are many who are currently concerned about whether they are bound by this, and whether they are being properly treated, etc. There I think we should send a clear signal from the Parliamentary Chamber that pilots affected by such projects must receive good treatment, both in terms of pricing their properties, but also in terms of advancing expropriation for those who feel bound by the staff. It may be that there are some who have very special reasons in the family that you have to move from the place. Then you shouldn't be tied up. After all, there is a lot about this in Chapter 6 of the Railway Act, but I think it is worth sending out the signal that these pilots need proper treatment. That being said, I can tell you that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110425	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110438	I must again wonder why it should take so long, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen? Why has this excellent project, which is part of the Train Fund DK, been delayed for at least four years now? Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself mentioned all the excellent things about us getting this new track over West Funen • more robust train traffic, better conditions for regional traffic, etc. etc. Why then this resistance to Togfonden DK and to this project until the spring, where you made the traffic agreement with Dansk Folkeparti?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110527	It is true that this project was part of the Blue Transport Agreement from March, which is now a piece of blank paper • quote over, the Minister of Transport. But when it took a long time, I think Mr. Henning Hyllested knows that it has something to do with the pressure on our construction framework, and if you read the bill carefully, you will also see that it is not until 2023 that money has actually been set aside to get started. That is why I could ask the current government and support parties: why wait so long? So it's four years before you start this little project, and I guess we can expect it to open at some point in 2028 or 2029, so I don't think we should hit each other in the head with that. Let us bear in mind the good arguments for implementing this project, which also has a sound socio-economic return. It is part of the Train Fund DK's phase 1 and Mr. It is a good thing that we agreed with it at some point, and we also recognise that the funding is present in Phase 1 of the Train Fund, and that is what we are following up on now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110625	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110630	It is also a question that I will be asking the Minister in today's debate, so why we have to wait until 2023. But that does not change and never becomes an argument for us to have suffered a loss of speed of 4 years at the Train Foundation DK, mainly on the West Funen track. But there has been room for it, for as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that the Togfonden DK, including Vestfynbane, is financed, so the money has been there the whole time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110702	Perhaps I can contribute to the reply without prejudging the Minister's reply. It has something to do with the fact that one thing is that the money is there, another is whether there is a framework to use it. That is what we have been hit by on many good construction projects in recent years, but fortunately it looks like we will have a hole in the boil in 2-3 years' time. We all want to get started now, but there is not much money to do well in 2020-2022, even if we want to get it all started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110730	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110733	Thank you. I'd like to join with you, sir. Henning Hyllested's enthusiasm that the Left is supporting this train line. It is, after all, gratifying that we have just had a blue government that really has not given this project any speed before, at the end of the day, when an infrastructure agreement was reached. But my question is more about something else. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left that, of course, the citizens affected by this must be treated well. I would also just like to point out that there have been several lines in play, and regardless of which one has chosen the rapporteur must not hang me a hundred per cent on it, it has been roughly the same number of pilots who were affected. What has been important for the conciliation parties has, of course, been to ensure that the citizens and the business community were also listened to, and that has been done, and that the assembly of the motorway and railway line means that we will have the least impact. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree with the Social Democrats and the government that it is a good disposition to do so in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110833	After all, there has been a process in which we have really turned and turned the individual lines, their pros and cons, as we have to, when we build such large installations. But I still think it is important to give the signal, because now there is a retail project where you really get the lines drawn out in the terrain, so you can see what that indicates for the individual's backyard etc. And in that process, it is also important that we really take account of the citizens who are affected by this, because it is violent to build a new railway through the landscape, and therefore it is so important to send that signal, so I fully agree with that. Moreover, with regard to the fact that it takes a long time, I should just like to take a quiet note of the government's draft budget, which is being charged with 2 billion. kr. on the installation frame. That does not make things any easier to implement quickly, because it is in fact in the first period when there is a small amount of money already that you are charging the 2 billion. kr. on the installation frame.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110923	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110926	Thank you. In relation to start-up and financing, I just want to ask Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, if it is not also true that the previous government was subject to some regard for a budget law, as is the case with this government, which has an impact on when there is, as it were, room to launch a project like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110945	I can confirm that, and that was also apparent from my reply to Mr Beazley's question. Henning Hylllested. But that does not change the fact that 2 billion have been taken. kr. of the installation framework as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010110954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111002	I would like to try to start where others left off in relation to the legal treatment we have on the establishment of this new railway over Funen. It is true, as many have said, that the proposal has had a relatively long and difficult birth from a legislative point of view. There are some parties that have previously sat in government, which did not, as a starting point, show the same zeal in establishing this rail link, as did the parties that originally participated in the agreement on the Togfonden DK, and this was probably primarily the first part of the agreement on the Togfonden DK, where the Danish People's Party chose as the only blue party to enter into the agreement concluded with the previous government. But of course this should not mean that today we should not even afford to be positive and happy and think that it is a good day for the Folketing, where we can finally get the bill to be examined and thus ensure that we provide, not so much funding, because we have done so in the past, but the general legal home to the Minister for Transport, the Department and ultimately the Road Directorate to set up the construction activities that will be carried out on top of the excellent vvm study which has been examined. It is a long process, it takes time, and we in the Danish People's Party also agreed that we will not hold the opening for the first few years, but it will take time to build the things that are needed. In the Danish People's Party we are very pleased that this is an agreement where it can be seen that you are actually able to combine rail projects with motorway projects. Therefore, I and the Danish People's Party also thought it was good when the blue parties back in 2017 made a clear manifestation in order to advance some plant investments to make the third track on the motorway section, which will of course run approximately parallel to the new rail link that we are law-making here today. It provides good energy, and it gives a good understanding of joint projects, that we consider both rail investment and investment in general public transport. People would very, very much like to frequent our motorways, and we, as Parliament, must ensure that we facilitate reasonable conditions in order to be able to do so. That's where we've been left behind on Funen. After all, there is a development project going on which is a little bit like the effort that will be made when we get this bill implemented and start designing itself. Other rapporteurs have said that there are so many metres and that the train is going to be able to drive so and so fast, so I will not tire people with that. I shall simply sign on behalf of the Danish People's Party for the good cooperation that we have had with the other parties since 2010 on the provision of this part of the infrastructure in Denmark, and we look forward to further cooperation on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111339	Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111347	Don't worry, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby says that the project is as late as it is and that the previous government has been sitting on its hands or, rather, has been directly opposed to the whole train fund project, including the West Funen railway. I am thinking more of the situation that has arisen as a result of the fact that the project will be 400 million. kr. More expensive, or at least 400 million could have been saved. kr., if you had established the West Funen track, at the same time you built the third track on the West Funen Highway. I think that's a real shame. The synergy effect that could have been achieved there could have saved those who, I believe, some 400 million. kr. Is it not regrettable to the rapporteur that we have come into this situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111438	Yes, it certainly does. Nor is it with the good will of the Danish People's Party that we have experienced these delays. Other rapporteurs, compared with the pilot owners concerned, said that we are trying to hit as few people as possible with this major construction project. But that does not change the fact that many people have waited and waited, and if we can also see that it costs money in the end and that there is less money for other projects, then of course it is not something that you think is positive. But I am also not pleased that the present government will then choose to make an excellent paper with a lot of writing on blank and redraw it all out again, because that also means that elsewhere we will see exactly the same types of scenarios as that, Mr President. Henning Hyllested well outlines in this case. But we in the Danish People's Party will be allowed to look forward, and we will also be allowed to say that what is now finally being treated is very good for our infrastructure in Denmark, and therefore we choose to look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111555	Thank you. This is a fantastic project, and we have waited a little long for it, we think in the SF, so of course we would like to thank the Minister for finally putting this on the construction law. This is, of course, a very, very important prerequisite for the Train Fund DK and for the hourly model, which we in the SF still think is extremely important. It is a track that will increase capacity and lower travel time, so of course we are pleased about that. I can also mention that six months ago we tried to get the then government to respect the majority of the Togfonden DK and thus put forward a draft law to get it here as a construction law so that we could get started, and unfortunately they were not very much for that. Now it is not because I want to make myself difficult with the Minister of Transport, but I have to do something when I do not applaud his excellent initiatives. But the Social Democratic Party, together with the SF and Radicals and Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, took part in making a resolution in January to press the then government to respect the majority that was for the Togfonden DK and to put it here on the construction law and to get money off so that we could get started, for it is indeed a track that was originally supposed to have been set in motion between 2020 and 2026. That's why we're a little upset that it doesn't concern this specific bill in its wording... that the government is planning to have this funded only from 2023. We think it's nice that you're going to get started, but we really wanted it to go a little bit stronger. I understand that there is really no such technical justification for starting there first, so I would like to hear the Minister of Transport agree that there is no technical justification for starting until 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111818	It just ended with a brief remark from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111823	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that there is an economy in the Train Fund DK to start before 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111834	So, as has also been mentioned earlier in the debate, there has been funding for this all along. And I also know that when we present our draft budget in the SF, there will be no lack of funding for this in terms of construction; it is a matter of political priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111850	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111853	Thank you. I would like to begin by welcoming the rapporteur to the Transport Committee. It's nice to see new faces, and at least there aren't too many women in this circle, so it's nice to have a fresh breath from the SF so welcome to. I am sure that, despite certain differences, we will have good cooperation. It is true that earlier this year, a motion for a resolution was tabled which instructed the previous government to start this process, and this should be done by 2020 at the latest. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it not a little strange that, a few months later, a legislative proposal is being tabled which, as it were, presupposes that we start in 2023? kr. In the beginning? Isn't it a little strange that you can change your mind so quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111946	Of course it is. Now I'm so lucky I wasn't elected to the Folketing at the time. If you're gonna follow what I said just now, it's pretty clear where I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010111959	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112003	Thank you. I can't wait to hear that. On the subject of whether the money is there, I would say that it can be a little difficult to distinguish. For one thing, the money is there in the Danish Railway Fund. We acknowledge that it is in phase one. On the other hand, there are major problems with phase 2; this is a completely different matter that we will be discussing later. But another thing is that we have a plant ceiling in Denmark. When you put together all public investment in relation to what happens in the municipalities, what happens in the regions and what happens in the state, then we reach some ceiling. SF recognizes that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112040	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112044	We do so in part, but as I said before, it is also a question of political priorities. Well, there's no doubt that this is an expensive project. However, if perhaps these motorway extensions were given a slightly lower priority and instead the public transport and implementation of the Train Fund DK and the hourly model, which has been waiting for a long time, a little higher, then we could probably get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112117	There is no doubt that today is a very big day. The train fund DK is, so to speak, back on track after the previous government had put it on, yes, you can almost say give way. In any case, they had put it on standby, with the exception of the electrification, which is also part of the Train Fund DK. The new track over West Funen belongs to Phase 1 of the Togfonden DK; it is actually the first new track that appears in Phase 1 of the Togfonden DK and therefore I think it is very gratifying that we can stand here today and get it started. Afterwards, hopefully then, other new tracks will follow • Maingård-Hasselager south of Aarhus, Vejlefjordbro/tunnel. And there are also a number of speed upgrades, not least of the regional lanes • it is sometimes a slightly overlooked element in the Train Fund DK. The train fund DK paves the way for the hourly model, which involves some very dramatic travel time reductions. I always highlight the travel time shortening between Copenhagen and Aalborg for now 3 hours, which of course makes the train absolutely competitive, even in relation to aircraft and at least in relation to the car. As others have said, capacity is virtually exhausted in West Funen. That is why the new West Funen track is also good because it also foreshadows good and new times for regional trains between Odense and Fredericia. And you will have a much better opportunity now to realize what is called the Funen S-train, with fast and relatively high frequency connections between Svendborg, Odense, Middelfart, Fredericia, Kolding, Vejle. It will be really exciting whether in the years to come we can develop a really good train operation on Funen associated with the Triangle area too. It will also be good for the freight trains that today cross West Funen. There's gonna be more options. Now the track is scheduled to be completed at the same time as the Fehmarn connection, and then there are two options to choose between for freight trains. And that's good, because we saw how sensitive it was when the track south of Kolding was torn up here a few years ago. Why the previous government regularly sabotaged the Togfonden DK, I still think is in the dark, and it has meant at least a loss of pace of at least four years. But, of course, I am delighted that I have already said that there are new tones, new buns on the soup. That's really good. There is, as the rapporteur for the SF said, a little displeasure, and that is of course: why not until 2023? Now, from the side of the support parties and the governing party, we have pressed for this to be established, and we have also pressed for it to be established by 2020. I understand from the discussions that I have had in the Ministry of Transport and Housing that there are no technical and planned obstacles nor financial problems, because the Train Fund DK has been implemented. I can inform Mrs Jane Heitmann that a so-called sensitivity calculation has been carried out in 2017 which said that at least the 13 billion. kr., which includes Togfonden DK's phase 1, is present. And, of course, this is in line with the agreement on the harmonisation of North Sea taxation, where the money has been rolled in from 2014. And you have to ask: what has the previous government spent all this money on? It might be feared that there has been a motorway extension or a motorway project here and there, financed by money, which should actually have been attributed to the Train Fund DK. But the same question can be asked now: what does the current government spend on the money from 2020 until 2023? In Enhedslisten we would like to see Vestfynbanen moved forward to 2020, and if it is not possible now because we are late in 2019, then at least 2021. And we plan to make a proposal to advance the West Funen track to start at least in 2021, depending on what happens in the committee procedure. This does not change the fact that, of course, we are voting enthusiastically in favour of this construction bill, and then we hope that the plant will be speeded up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112613	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112617	Thank you. It's always exciting to hear what Mr. Henning Hyllested has to say from the platform. I could understand that there was almost a question of rail cabotage with regard to the previous government's doings and barn. However, I took note of the fact that Enhedslisten would like to table amendments to promote this forward to 2021. That sounds really good, but then I have to ask: given that there is a single framework for how much the public can invest and that is what the finance minister is very aware of when he among other things. negotiates with municipalities and regions once a year • what are some projects going to give way in 2021 and 2022? Is it the super-sickhouses that don't have to be finished? Are there any municipal projects that need to be tampered with? Or are there any government projects that need to be tampered with? There I can say that no motorway construction is really going on, or at least very, very little. So what are some projects that need to be tampered with so that this can be brought forward for two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112714	I'm gonna make some corrections. It is not really an amendment, because the construction law does not say anything about the start date. So it's gonna be a proposal, and that's what's great about this bill. It is a proposal for a construction law, which is why it is possible to make a proposal that the construction law should include the year of establishment. With regard to investment ceilings, etc. is, of course, a political priority and it is possible that there is no motorway project. That's a shame, because it would have been quick to switch around, I'll say hello, at least for the Enhedslisten. This will, of course, be a political priority, and we have in fact now asked the Minister of Finance to get an overview of what is going on in projects up to 2030. I think that is the year we have asked. It's just to get an overview of what that plant ceiling looks like, so you can go in and have a real discussion of the political priorities that need to be addressed. Vestfynbane already from 2020 or 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112811	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112814	It is quite fair that different priorities should be set. That's democracy. But if you look at the financial bill that the government is now putting forward, you can see something about when this project is expected to start. There is a year, namely 2023, and that, in the context of the bill here, tells something about it. That is why the question is relevant. Now that Enhedslisten wants to advance this and there are no free laps, it costs, so you have to point out what it is that needs to be played out, and you can look at that in a financial law context. I understand that there must be a close negotiation between the Enhedslisten and the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112846	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112850	Yeah, and we're going to point that out too. But as I say, we would like to have a complete overview of that is why we have asked the Minister for Finance what really lies in projects, to see if we can make room for, for example. West Funen. That is also why I would like to announce that we are making a proposal that will be included in the committee's proceedings. We also hope that we will get the answers from the Finance Minister so that we can have a complete overview of what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112915	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. And we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010112923	Thank you very much. Today is a day of joy. The sun is shining and the autumn holiday is approaching, and we are in the process of adopting a bill to start building an electrified railway between Odense and Middelfart, both for the benefit of citizens and for the benefit of business. It's a day of joy. At the same time, I note that the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area says that the pilots who are in the area have been taken into account, and it is a great pleasure for us that there is some sort of orderlyness in that process. This quality should also apply to those drivers who drive on the roads and who are affected by this railway building process. We have a section of extremely vulnerable motorway in the area and a temporary tunnel work site will be created, which means that during the construction period two tracks will be maintained in each direction on the motorway. The Conservative People's Party's position is that it will be completely inadequate with two tracks in each direction, as the motorway will then have three tracks in each direction, according to the planned expansion, which will be opened in 2022. Already today, and I know this from personal experience, the traffic on the motorway is severely distressed, especially in the west of Funen and south of Odense. With the expected growth in traffic over the next few years, reducing the motorway to two tracks in each direction would, in our view, be totally unacceptable. However, as mentioned earlier and now established, we support the bill and look forward to getting started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113110	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113121	Perhaps that is just as much a comment. It was just in the end when Mr. After all, Niels Flemming Hansen was told to support it. I was completely worried during the speech (Niels Flemming Hansen) You shouldn't be!), because I think it was a great deal about the concern of the motorists, the motorways, the reduction of motorways and upstairs and coming down here. But I note that there has also been a change of stance, as have the other previous parties in government who have changed their position here, and now warmly
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113157	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113201	Well we support at this stage and have always supported the Togfonden DK's phase 1. We think this is good for business that it is good for people who use trains every day. So we're happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113213	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113215	Ah, just a correction: No, you haven't supported it all the time in the Conservative People's Party. You have been a foot-to- foot man, not to say directly against the whole project on the Train Foundation DK, including the track over West Funen. But welcome to the fold, I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113231	We thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113233	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113236	Thank you. Well, I also warmly welcome the new Conservative rapporteur. I look forward very much to the cooperation, and I would also like to acknowledge that the Conservative People's Party is very concerned about those who are now affected by this gigantic project, i.e. citizens who have a living space close to them, business companies who have also come very close to this, and then, of course, the traffic on the motorway. That is actually the last question I would like to ask. Now this is going to be done, even if it takes some time before we see the bulldozers in the terrain. Do you agree with the Conservatives that it is absolutely crucial when we talk about Funen that we get through the motorway all the way through, including south of Odense? There we have a piece of blank paper at the moment, so there is a great deal of uncertainty about it. Are you Conservatives prepared to make sure of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113324	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113326	The Conservatives are very prepared to do so. We consider keeping in line to be very, very expensive for society, and that is why we must, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113336	There are no further brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113346	Thank you for the floor. In the alternative, we want more, better and cheaper public transport. That is why, of course, we also support this proposal. Better means it has to be faster, and this is a step towards fulfilling the Train Fund DK's hour model, by being 4 km shorter and the train can drive up to 250 km/h. It will also be better because it will be electrified so that we do not have so much CO2 It is also wiser because there will be better opportunities for freight transport and the more freight transport we can move from trucks to trains, the better it is for our climate as well. It is also wise because it is along the motorway, so it is in an area which is already subject to noise nuisances and in relation to nature. However, the natural load may not be so great because it is agricultural land and not forest or other nature that is affected. I have a question for the Minister, in relation to whether an investigation has been carried out or there are plans to investigate how many passengers this might move from cars to trains. It might be interesting to know, also in relation to the future development of the hour model. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113513	And we will just have a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113518	I would also like to welcome the new Transport Rapporteur of the Alternative. Again, it is nice to see some female faces in the circle that have been very male-shaped for many years. I note that the rapporteur mentioned the hour model and that it was an important part of this. And that is true; we shorten travel time. But if you are to implement the hour model, it also means a new railway down through East Jutland to well over 10 billion. DKK, including a bridge over Vejle Fjord. Because, as I said, the Train Fund is DK's phase 1. Is this something that the alternative will throw itself into and spend money on such expensive a project, even if it is not funded? Or, in other words, will the alternative require that the black hole in the Train Fund DK be filled up before we can start spending money on other and far more sensible projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113620	As a starting point, we will support what is needed to make the hour model run. And that will also mean that we have to invest more in railways than in motorways. So we're clear on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113631	Thank you. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113639	Thank you, sir. President. I would also like to sign up for the rapporteur's speech and, in fact, to ask a few questions about what Mrs Susanne Zimmer said in relation to what she said about more, better and cheaper in the introduction to the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur also spoke a little about what became more of, and what improved, among other things. the electrification and that goods e.g. they're moving over on trains. However, what the rapporteur did not comment on later on with the cheaper approach, and I would like to hear what the alternative means about what should be cheaper. Because there are different ways of calculating it. Is it the cost per year? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Can the rapporteur of the alternative specify where it is cheaper?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113740	Thank you for an excellent question which gives me the opportunity to clarify what I mean by cheaper. Cheaper in my perspective is in relation to passengers, i.e. it becomes more attractive for passengers to move onto trains. That is not natural in this proposal, so that is not what I was commenting on. In the alternative, we would like to make public transport 30 per cent. cheaper over the next 4 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113802	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113806	Thank you for your answer. But when you say it has to be 30%. The question is, first of all, where the money should come from and, secondly, who it is that it will be cheaper for. For example, if fares are reduced because it has to be cheaper to be a customer at DSB's shop or at the two competitors, for example, there are usually others who have to pick up the bills. If you look at calculation models, compared to how much it costs to transport four people in a car versus four people in a train, it is often the case that cars win quite massively. And I know that the alternative is not so fond of motorway investment. That's why I'm asking a few questions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113844	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113847	In other words, if we cut prices by 30%, our assumption is that there will be many more passengers, and then we could assume that the budget would go into zero.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113858	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Theisen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010113910	I do not know whether it is appropriate to correct the President, but my name is Thiesen With this bill, L 14, an electrified railway is proposed over West Funen. It's no secret. We've actually been very open about New Citizens giving priority to roads over rails. But this proposal is at the same time a bad idea for several reasons. In these times of research and development and the constant emergence of new technologies, it is an incredibly bad idea to invest so much money in old technology. It is incredibly much money for something we almost know with certainty that technology has caught up with before the project is completed. Infrastructure needs to make sense. For New Citizens, this project doesn't make much sense. We believe that the money can be spent much better, but we are positive and see it as a basis for a good discussion on better infrastructure investments in the forthcoming negotiations, i.e. investments that will give transport equality in Denmark and we look forward to the forthcoming negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114028	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There was a request for a brief comment at the very last moment, and that is from Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114040	I apologize to the President. I was just wondering whether I had become radical in my understanding of the rapporteur's speech. This is a law of authorisation; it is not a debate on whether or not we should have a railway. I think perhaps the rapporteur has made the wrong speech to the wrong bill, because it is an authorisation law for the Minister to ask the Road Directorate to go ahead, it is not a proposal for a debate on whether or not to start or not to start. Perhaps the rapporteur should reflect on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114114	This has been reflected. I put this comment to the end because I would like to point out that it is very important for us that we have infrastructure investments that make sense and that we cannot, of course, support this bill, but that we see it as a prelude to the forthcoming negotiations. We are voting against this bill, but we see it as a prelude to the forthcoming negotiations, where we hope to find a broad solution for a great many good infrastructure investments for the benefit of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114146	There is a brief comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114153	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome you both to the Danish Parliament, but also to the circle of transport rapporteurs. There are many debutantes, but there are also some of us who have a few years on the back in here. At least I look forward to working together. I heard the rapporteur say that there were some technologies that would overtake the railways, and what we are dealing with here is a high-speed railway which would make the train run up to 250 km/h, so I would just like to ask the rapporteur what kind of technologies it is and what part of the traffic code needs to be changed in order for us to have competing technologies that can run up to 250 km/h. Over West Funen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114230	Thank you so much. What I am talking about is, of course, electrification, and there have been some challenges in the past. We do not think, as I said before, that rail should take precedence over roads, we think it should be the other way around, and we also think that we should look at where things make sense, and we do not think this does.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114250	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114255	Thank you. I do not get a full answer as to what exactly it is for a technology that can go in and make it possible as a human being to move at a speed of up to 250 km/h. on West Funen, which can be better than the railroad, i.e. when we think in pure speed. Can the rapporteur clarify what kind of technology this is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114314	As I said to the rapporteur before in my speech, it was a matter of living at a time when there is a great deal of research going into these various things. We don't see this as a necessary project at this time, and we have also seen, unfortunately, that the places where you have previously invested in this technology are here to reach the 250 km/h. Maybe not quite achieved yet. In any case, there have been really great challenges with it. So we do not see that a great deal of money is being put into something that we do not know at this stage if any other technology will overtake. And by the way, as I started by saying, we are clearly going to give priority to railroads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114351	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114356	After all, it was because the rapporteur was told that the emphasis was on road equality. I didn't quite understand what was in it. I do not know what the underlying premise is for talking about traffic equality. The fact is that Denmark has been investing in carism for decades, so it has invested in roads. The road network has been expanded quite, quite strongly and, as you know, it does nothing. You can be sure of that by just looking out the window and seeing that car traffic has increased and increased as the road network, the motorway network, has increased. At the same time, as you know, we have under-funded or under-funded rail traffic, with the result that we are faced with a railway today, which is neglected, which has a huge backlog in maintenance and which is therefore not, at least, on an equal footing with traffic. So I'd like to know what's in that concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114457	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114500	When we talk about traffic equality, it is one of the things we are dealing with. on this principle of road transport that you have, that is to say, it's going to cost the same thing to drive 1 km as to sail 1 km. At the same time, it is also about the fact that you have some places where you have user fees, for example on the Storebælt Bridge, but also on the new Crown Princess Mary's Bro in Frederikssund, and we do not think that goes under what we call traffic equality. Infrastructure is really important for New Citizens because it is what binds our country together. But then I also have to point out, as I also said in my speech, that weighing for us is more important than shining. It is also necessary to recognise that there are a great many Danes living around the country who depend on a car, including Danish families for children, who depend on having a car and being able to use the roads and where you will not be able to use public transport. So this is a clear priority for New Citizens. We have never concealed the fact that we are giving priority to roads over rails, nor are we now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114602	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114606	I mean, 39%. In fact, families in Denmark do not have access to cars. Surely they must also be able to transport themselves around, and I do not think the rapporteur would argue that it is cheap to travel by train today. I am fully in favour of a policy on the part of the New Citizens' Party to ensure that car traffic is cheaper and, as you know, it has been so in recent years. The tax on registration has been reduced with the result that there have been even more cars on the roads, accompanied by even more congestion. I simply do not understand how New Citizens can have a policy that increases the strain, among other things. because it is also too expensive to drive by train.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114645	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114649	Well, we can agree that there are some really big challenges with regard to among others. The S-train network and the S-rail, and we also have some very, very big challenges with the Coastal Railway, for example. That is also why we have proposed that DSB should be privatised, so that these competitive advantages can also be achieved and the market can decide more. It will also benefit all customers if there is more competition in terms of price. So that's one thing. We would like to see the registration tax completely removed, so that the children's family had the opportunity to buy a much better and far safer car. Then we will also have to look at the fact that there will be some technology, possibly also with self-propelled cars etc., in the future, which will make better use of the roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114730	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114749	Thank you for that, President. One of the things that fascinates me most is to drive slowly on the motorway and to follow the huge construction works that are part of building a railway, and there will be plenty of opportunity for this now that a railway is being built on West Funen. So that's happy. But it is also a sensible project because the existing rail network is as heavily exploited as it is. Calculations of the internal rate of interest in the project also show that it is a sensible project. It's 5.5%. well above the critical 4% and therefore it is a socio-economically viable project. This benefits both regional and long-distance rail traffic, and in the long term it also makes it possible to speed up significantly compared to the speed at which you are travelling today. So this is a very good project that we in the Liberal Alliance support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114844	Thank you. Then we move on to the last rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010114857	Thank you for that, and thank you for the flexibility in getting into the rapporteur's line, as I was not here when the right thing was my turn. But things went a little fast in the Chamber with the points ahead. On the radical side, we consider L 14 to be the starting point for a new future for railway operations on Funen, and we would, of course, like to give the Minister of Transport the power to build a new railway over West Funen. It is, as has been said many times, a new and double-track electrified railway of 35 km and at a peak speed of 250 km/h, and it contributes significantly to regional traffic. We think that's fine, so you can get around the country faster. Although, of course, this unfortunately means that regional travellers are going to spend less time on Funen, what is going to happen with this railway is nevertheless massively in favour of Funen. The new track means an overall much larger capacity, also for local trains and goods over West Funen, and it provides a perspective for a more ambitious long-term train service • a kind of Funen S-train network, where both Middelfartbanen and Svendborgbanen and Odense's new light rail can play together in a traffic network. So this is, in addition to being a great component of district traffic, also something that has potential locally. We have, of course, agreed on the financing of this long ago in the course of the phase of the Togfonden DK. The Radical Left is pleased to vote in favour of the construction of the new runway.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010115022	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010115034	Thank you, President. A new railway over West Funen is part of the Togfonden DK's phase 1 and, with the introduction of the Construction Act for the new runway, the Government translates the resolution put forward by a group of conciliations that the Construction Act should be introduced. And since the draft budget also provides for funds for the construction of the project, we are following up on the settlements that have been reached and our statements before the elections. The construction of a new track over West Funen is a good project which will give a boost to public transport in terms of shorter travel time and better punctuality. The vision is to create a much more green and climate-friendly train product that points into the future. The new government wants a new direction for Denmark, where the climate and the environment are very important. And public transport is an important element in this context. Train passengers deserve an attractive railway in top shape. Railway equipment must have a high operating stability, infrastructure must be maintained with modern signalling systems, and, yes, fares must be attractive. Railways must continue to have the potential to make a greater contribution to solving the challenges of congestion if they are to rely on the inherent strength of the railway, namely to transport many people quickly, either between major cities or in densely built areas. The vision in the hourly model of ensuring more stable operation and faster transport between parts of the country is therefore still important, and that is why we are taking the first step today with the decision to build a new high-speed railway over West Funen. The further steps in the development of the railway will be included in the forthcoming negotiations on a long-term infrastructure plan, an investment plan which will include as much of the Folketing as possible, with which the plan will be long-lasting. In relation to that, of course, I am very pleased with ■ especially since this is my first bill as Minister of Transport that so much of the Danish Parliament has indicated that it will vote in favour of this bill. I would like to thank the Social Democrat rapporteur, the Left rapporteur, the Danish People's Party rapporteur, the SF rapporteur, the Enhedslisten rapporteur, the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, the Alternative Rapporteur, the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and the Radical Left rapporteur, all of whom have indicated that their groups will vote in favour of this proposal. There have been many interesting points of view in the course of the debate; a few I would just like to make a few cuts. Among other things, there are: was discussed a simultaneous effect. It is here that the previous government had chosen to promote this proposal so that the construction of the railway could have taken place at the same time as the motorway system currently in operation in the area, what would the saving have been? And here I should just like to make it clear that it is true that there would have been a socio-economic value of approx. 400 million kr. In this context, however, the economic savings of the plant would have been 100 million. kr. It's just to understand the two numbers against each other. So we are now there with the assumption that it would be possible to have a simultaneous effect, that it is very limited if it is present at all. So we should have made a decision like this at an earlier stage. This then leads me to the comments made by the Conservative rapporteur, for example, on the concern about motorists on the motorway. It has to be said that one of the reasons why the socio-economic gain had been as high as 400 million. kr., if you had built the two projects simultaneously or approximately simultaneously, would have been that you had bothered among others. The drivers are somewhat smaller. It is a bit difficult to do it today, since it is then a decision to change something that would require a time machine to be invented. However, it is not within my area of responsibility, either as Minister of Transport or acting Minister of the Church. In relation to the debate on the possible advance of the plant, it is clear that the economic aspect of this proposal does not lie in the construction law itself. The Construction Act alone ensures that an installation with associated expropriations etc. can be set up, and I will return to that in a moment. But the economic situation lies in the draft budget. Nevertheless, I think it is important to highlight at least one element in relation to the technique of the plant, and that is that there is, after all, a relationship with the signal programme which needs to be taken into account. Because if the railway system is brought forward in relation to 2023, where it is provided for in the draft Finance Act that it will be started, it will also affect the deployment and delivery of digital signalling systems, namely ETCS, and here Banedanmark is in the process of exploring the general possibilities of placing ETCS equipment in place in relation to the new runway over West Funen in the plans for building up the overall delivery. Therefore, I must also stress that Banedanmark does not currently have a full overview of the overall supply constraints and therefore cannot assess whether the installation and deployment of ETCS on the new runway can be brought forward. All other things being equal, an advance is expected to be at the expense of other signal deliveries in East Denmark due to limited capacity of suppliers. This is among other things. That is why, and I would like to stress this, we in the government are currently carrying out a service inspection of the railway in order to ensure that there are no capacity challenges compared to the simultaneous projects under way. The simultaneous projects are the new signal system, the total electrification and, above all, the purchase of new trains. However, as I have said, the question of the financing itself lies in the Finance Act, and so it is an issue to be addressed to the Minister for Finance. In relation to the question of expropriation it was inter alia: Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, who touched on this issue, I would just like to point out that a prerequisite for ensuring an opportunity for accelerated expropriation is precisely the adoption of this bill. As stated in the observations of the Act, such accelerated expropriation may be carried out in accordance with the rules of Chapter 6 of the Railway Act. However, as I have said, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the widespread positive reception given to this proposal and, of course, I will look forward to discussing possible technicalities, etc. in committee proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010115853	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. First, to sir. Hans Christian Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010115855	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Minister. Perhaps I should also welcome the Minister, for this is the first time I have had a debate with him in the Chamber. And congratulations on the job. I think it is very satisfactory that the Minister himself is addressing the whole question of expropriation. I dare say that this is not something that happened suddenly in the Minister's time of ministers, so the Minister should not expect me to give him responsibility for that because it has been there for many years. On the other hand, I would like to build on what the Minister mentioned here, namely that it is clear from the legislation that pre-expropriation can be done. In this context, I would just like to ask the Minister something. In the Committee on Transport we had a hearing on the whole issue of expropriation, and on that occasion there were, in fact, several members of the committee that had been set up under the Ministry of Industry who pointed out that there were a large number of improvements that could be made. Will the Minister also take a debate in committee, we could do so in a closed consultation where we might then be able to discuss the whole issue of expropriation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120006	Of course, I always come to the Committee on Transport when the Committee on Transport so wishes. And I understand, too, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, that the mere fact that you signal that you want it as a closed consultation bears witness to the fact that it is at least my experience from almost 12 years in the Danish Parliament that you are constructive in your approach. I would also like to emphasise that I have great respect for the instrument of expropriation. When we adopt a law such as this, a construction law, we have a very special obligation to ensure that what we do is socially useful, and the broad majority that comes around it is what is indicated. I myself, before I became active in politics, have had the experience of having to house a motorway, so I can only confirm that being in that situation is something that can be very intrusive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120108	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120109	I'd like to sign for that. Because I think it is good to hear the Minister say that. And I think we all know very well that if the Minister wants to take the lead in this, it has a slightly easier run on the ground. And I think that is what we owe to the people who live in an uncertainty over there, so that we try to take as many people as possible out of that uncertainty. But I look forward to the conciliation in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120138	Thank you. I am also looking forward to the consultation, and I would also like to stress that I also have to say that my personal experience is that the apparatus which is Commissioner for expropriations is extremely professional, and that my experience has certainly been that it is also a function which takes very great account of the citizens who are affected. That is why I would just like to emphasise that I think that this is at least something that we must stick to, regardless of what is happening in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120217	Thank you, and I'm sorry to the Minister, but here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120224	Thank you. And a great congratulations on the Minister's first bill. After all, it warms my little blue heart that it is a bill concerning Funen, and it is no secret that on Funen it has the highest priority in terms of infrastructure, since it is an extension of the E20, and I hope that this bill will not get in the way of extending the Funen E20 quickly. But I would like to stick to the whole issue of expropriation. It is clear that at the first reading today uncertainty starts seriously among the relevant pilots, i.e. whether you are tied to your property from now on and many years into the future, about which land prices might be expropriated. And my question is actually: what message can the Minister send to the Funenmen who can now expect an expropriation to reassure them ■ in view of the fact that the Minister will of course ensure reasonable land prices, of course one should not be afraid of being tied up?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120334	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120335	In fact, it is very important that it is not the Minister, nor the Folketing, who decides, but an independent authority. That is very important. As I mentioned earlier, I myself have tried to be in the opposite situation as a citizen before I even entered politics, and that is why I can at least send out the unequivocal signal to the citizens who may be affected by this, that I have a great deal of sympathy for it. It is intrusive when we make a decision like the one we are about to make when we reach the third reading of the construction law. It is also important to stress that the Construction Act is a prerequisite So, as legislator, we must of course also remember that this is a prerequisite for these citizens to move forward, but also that it is by its very nature that the instrument that exists also ensures that there is a proper recognition, a proper settlement in relation to the expropriation that is to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120447	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120449	Thank you. I understand that it may be opportune to refer to another authority, but what initiatives will the Minister take independently to calm down and to reassure the many Funen families who will of course suffer under the law that we are now about to adopt? How will the Minister eliminate the uncertainty that may be about being tied up about what is expropriated for, that is, land prices? What will the Minister himself do?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120530	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120530-2	I therefore have to correct and say in the most serious terms: it is precisely not the case that we in the Danish Parliament have to decide some overall sum for how much we should be able to expropriate and impose some limitation on it. That is why we have an independent authority to ensure that people are counted against the values they provide for the benefit of society. I must stress this: it is absolutely essential that there is clear independence in relation to it. And then it can be said that if you really wanted the citizens to have a clarification as soon as possible, then of course the previous government would have significantly promoted this proposal before.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120610	Thank you for that, and the next in line of questioners, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120615	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for correcting my lax use of figures and money and so on. I think that's really nice. Yes, what do farmers know about cucumber salad, socio-economic calculations and so real money? But 100 million. kr. I would say, after all, that is also a piece of money, which is unfortunately wasted because we could not synchronise with the expansion of the West Funen motorway. I really would have asked the Minister if he did not think it was at least a pity that there was no intention to advance the West Funen project, but I do not, and it is of course to avoid an answer that says: it is something that is going on over there in the Ministry of Finance, and I have no direct influence on that, and it is his stop and come down here. But now I understand from some of what the Minister says that, contrary to what I had come to believe, there are technical obstacles in the way of perhaps moving it forward in relation to the scandalous signal programme. So now I'm kind of confused about what it really is. Is it just a priority issue, or are there real technical obstacles in the way of advancing the West Funen railway?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120731	Thank you. The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120732	The short answer to that is, of course, that we do not actually know, and that is also what I made quite clear, because Banedanmark has not completed their investigations into it. That is why I would just like to point out that there can be an overview of this if necessary. We know this when we get closer, and one of the elements that will make us wiser is the service that the government has set in motion, which I have asked my ministry to carry out, and which is precisely to give us a comprehensive overview of the many simultaneous projects where the signalling system is one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120819	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120821	What the Minister is saying here actually makes me a little nervous, because when are we going to know? When will Banedanmark be ready with an assessment of this signal program? I have to admit, I'm a little afraid of what it is Banedanmark will be coming out in due course. I believe that they are making another delay in the signal programme. Does this also mean that West Funen will be further delayed compared to 2023, so it will not be until 2024 or 2025 and will not be finished until the mid- 2030s?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120900	It is not considered that it could affect the construction works contained in this construction law. What this is about here is the issue of the signal system, and it has nothing to do with, for example, the soil work that needs to be done. Far along the way, many of the earthworks will probably not be done by Banedanmark, but by the Road Directorate in practice. But the servicing of the railroad I expect will be completed in January 2020 • i.e. in a few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120936	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010120940	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to begin by congratulating the Minister on his first draft law, on his debut as Minister for Transport here, and this seems to be adopted by a broad majority. And then I have to correct the Minister a little bit, because the Minister mentioned something about the fact that time machines were not within his resort, but perhaps that is not quite right, because to my surprise, two years ago, I found out that the Minister of Transport is actually responsible for summer time and winter time, so there is a little about it over time. But my question is a follow-up to Mr. The question of expropriation by Hans Christian Schmidt and Mrs Jane Heitmann. The Minister mentioned that we have a professional apparatus for this, and I agree with that, and that is an independent judicial and legal body. That's how far we agree. But it is also true that over the years we have had a number of citizens' requests, when you have been out doing such business with expropriation in connection with railway crossings, works etc., so there are sometimes problems where citizens think that they are not being met enough, according to the wording of the Basic Law. That is why I would like to ask whether the Minister will help send that signal to the people who are doing that work, even if they are independent: if you are in doubt, give the citizens a little better treatment than you actually intended to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121057	So, as I said, I have the utmost respect for the fact that there is an arm's length principle, and I actually think it is very important that we, as politicians, do not interfere in valuation, that it is precisely on a neutral legal basis and that all the considerations that need to be taken into account are also taken into account. There has been an ongoing discussion of the area of expropriation and a closed consultation has been announced, and I will, of course, take part in that. With regard to the specific project, I would also like to say that there is no doubt that it is very good that the law was passed so that some citizens can actually have clarification. Then I must also say that it is true that I am also Minister for Time, at least with regard to the discussion on summer time and winter or normal time, but I should like to stress that this does not mean that parents can turn to the Minister and ask that I regulate when it is bedtime for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121154	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121156	Thank you for that answer. These are important issues, including those relating, for example, to: Shootstrup, where there are a number of citizens who are interested in this at the moment. The second question actually relates to what Henning Hyllested has been dwelling on, namely the timetable and the fact that we start in 2023. Once again, I am aware of the Socialist motion for a resolution tabled earlier this year, which would require the government to proceed with this immediately, i.e. rather yesterday than tomorrow. I just want to hear from the Minister whether this proposal was not made with all due respect a little bit with its head under his arm, because now the Minister himself has given some good arguments, namely that there is the economic reality, but also some reality in relation to the signal programme that we need to have in connection with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121239	The motion for a resolution was tabled on two grounds. One was the submission of the Construction Act. The construction law was put forward at the beginning of the parliamentary year it was so fast that it was possible to do so and thus the relationship is fulfilled. The second was that the project should be put on the Finance Act, and it has been put on the first possible Finance Act, with the exception of the Temporary Finance Act and the Finance Bill being first dealt with in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121312	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121326	The debate is open. The first rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121344	Thank you, President. The main purpose of this bill is to implement parts of the agreement on strengthened compliance with the rules in the field of motor vehicles, including increasing efforts to combat the abuse of the compensation scheme for the export of vehicles from Denmark. The draft law ensures that the Administrative Board has the powers necessary to ensure effective supervision of the customs inspection activities of the supervisory authorities. Finally, the aim is to ensure the legal basis for the Danish control authorities in the field of heavy commercial vehicles to carry out effective roadside inspections and comply with Denmark's EU legal obligations. It is proposed that a clear legal basis should be introduced to enable the Danish Trade Administration to supervise the customs supervision of the firms of sight, in the same way as the Board of Directors supervises, for example: periodic vision of the visual auditoriums. In order to finance the increased supervisory effort, it is proposed that a fee be charged per year. Customs supervision of the supervisory bodies is carried out, and similar fees are charged under the law for other inspection activities, e.g.: period vision. In addition, the agreement on strengthened compliance with the rules in the field of motor vehicles indicates that the possibilities and the need to supplement, where appropriate, so-called special sightings to handle customs inspections need to be examined in more detail. This study is still being carried out in cooperation between the Ministry of Taxation and the Ministry of Transport, but with this bill it is already proposed that the Minister of Transport should be able to lay down detailed rules on a special authorization system for customs services by decree. Therefore, should the current investigation show later that there might be a need to impose specific requirements on surveyers wishing to carry out customs audits, the regulatory framework is prepared and ready for administrative enforcement. Roadside viewing, i.e. In the case of heavy goods vehicles on the side of the road, the police and the Customs Authority are currently working together, as only the police are empowered to stop vehicles on the side of the road. The technical examination of the vehicles at the side of the road is then carried out by the inspection officers of the Administration of Transport. The Danish authorities are obliged, under the EU Roadside Inspection Directive, to carry out initial roadside inspections equivalent to at least 5%. of registered commercial vehicles in Denmark, i.e. Approx. 5,200 preliminary roadside inspections per year years. In order to support the authorities' ability to fulfil our EU legal obligations in this area, it is proposed that the Authority be given the authority to direct and accompany commercial vehicles to a control point in order to carry out roadside inspections without the presence of the police. This is merely an addition to the existing system and the starting point will therefore still be that roadside inspections are carried out in cooperation with the police. However, the Transport Authority does not acquire the police's coercive powers to physically stop or replace vehicles on the road network. The control can only assign vehicles to a control point and report to the police if a driver fails to comply with the instructions given by the authority. That would then be punishable by a fine. The Danish Trade Administration supervises the Danish vision companies. An essential part of this supervision is to check the vehicles which have been sighted and which are still in the sighting establishment when the board is on inspection visits. The Danish Transport Administration is experiencing approx. half a hundred times a year, that the manufacturer of a vehicle leaves the sighting establishment before the authority has had the opportunity to carry out an inspection of the vehicle in order to determine whether the visual inspection has been carried out in accordance with the rules. As the rules are today, the Danish Trade Agency has no means of preventing a manufacturer of the vehicle from leaving the sight. It is therefore proposed that the Authority be given the power to suspend the approval of the vision in relevant IT systems in the field of vision until the authority has had the opportunity to control the vehicle. The service means that the vehicle runs on the Danish roads without being registered as approved, which may ultimately lead to the withdrawal of the vehicle's registration plates. It is expected that manufacturers of vehicles would, after all, prefer to stay at the point of view for a little extra time rather than risk ultimately having license plates withdrawn. The proposal will therefore come to an end. Overall, the Social Democratic Party can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121822	Thank you. No one has asked for short remarks, so we thank Mr. Thomas Jensen. We give the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010121837	Thank you for that, President. As my good Social Democratic colleague has already explained, this draft law consists of a number of elements following up a broad political agreement called the "Agreement on strengthened regulatory compliance in the motor sector." There has therefore been a need across parties for us to be a little better at ensuring that car dealers and others in that industry remember to comply with the rules. It is from a reasonable point of view that you have to pay and have the taxes you have to pay, according to the legislation, but it is certainly also in order to ensure fair competition. So there is broad political agreement to follow up on that. I am not going to go into detail on the proposal for a directive, because it has just happened in an excellent way, but I would like to make a few comments on it. I think it is a good thing that it is now being clarified that the Agency should supervise the supervisory bodies in relation to customs supervision, etc. And customs supervision is the vision that needs to be made if you're going to export a car. Then it has to be fixed in terms of value so that you can get the correct tax back. It is important that this is done correctly so that there is no unfair competition or wrong payouts. It is also an innovation that in future the Danish Trade Agency will be authorised to carry out roadside inspections, and I welcome that. There is no doubt that the roadside views are important and they are also important within the heavy roadside controls to ensure compliance with driving rest times, road use charges, etc. But in general, there will be an opportunity here to assist the police and to complement the police in this work... also again to ensure more effective control. I welcome that. One might then hope that this will, like, be the first step towards further progress. We in the Left have long supported a unified transport industry which, with 3F, the Transport Group, and DI Transport and Danish Business and others in the lead, proposes that the roadside control task be transferred from the National Police to the Danish Transport Authority, which is responsible for these rules. Then it is also natural that they are the ones who enforce them. There we can seek good inspiration in Germany, and we have even been down to study it. We have been involved in the work of the so-called BRG Bundesamt für Güterverkehr and it works very effectively and thus frees the police from the task of releasing a number of police officers for other real police tasks. There is no such thing in this, but it might be natural for us between the parties to discuss the further possibilities on the basis of the proposal that has come from, as I said, a single transport sector. That's pretty remarkable. But for now we're gonna take this step. So, all in all, I think it is a sensible proposal that loyally follows up a politically broad agreement, and this is, of course, a legislative proposal that the Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122204	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122209	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask you about the roadside view and the number of checks, where I think it is quite innovative and perhaps also a little problematic that it is the European Union that, with this bill, decides that it is exactly 5 per cent. of all commercial vehicles to be called for checks, i.e. 5,200 checks. It is not, of course, because I am against controlling these vehicles, because that is quite reasonable. The question is, who does the Left really think should decide that kind of thing? The reason why I am asking is that, in connection with the European elections, I could understand that there were two lines: Morten Løkkegaard, who thought that the EU should decide something more, and Søren Gade, who thought that Denmark should decide something more. There is, of course, a concrete measure here. Is it really necessary that we have an EU system that determines the level of control in the Member States? Can we not find out for ourselves in the Folketing or at ministerial level? Because the controls are fine, but should the European Union interfere with these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122302	I think we could find out for ourselves, but, on the other hand, I recognise that, of course, the European Union has a desire for one's enforcement. That is exactly what has been the problem, for example. about driving-rest-time, to take something else regarding roadside controls, i.e. an uneven control pressure. There is no point in you having rules that are common throughout Europe and that the pressure of control is so much different, so in some countries there is free hunting and in others you are very, very zealous. So it is probably a desire on the part of the European Union to achieve a fairly uniform control pressure. But otherwise I agree with the questioner that we could actually have found out for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122339	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122340	I think the aim has been for all the EU countries to be the same in this area, and there are some of us who think that we may not necessarily have to be in all areas. I don't think that's a problem. If we found out that we had actually had a control effort that worked and people actually complied with the rules, should we continue to control 5,200 cars? Then it might be that, for a while, it was said that we would shift the control of it down and gear it up to something else, because our resources could not just remain there. I think it is up to the individual Member States to find out where they want to use the resources, and we should not necessarily be the same. For if control works, there may not be a need for 5,200 checks for a number of years. Well, that could come back, and that's where it doesn't make sense to make that standard...
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122422	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122423	Well, we should not bother the citizens more than we need to, so it says a little bit about not going up to 10,000 controls, but otherwise I think it is the individual country that should assess how many controls there should be. But now there are some common rules, and since we are a member of the European Union and I hear virtually no parties who want to join us out of the European Union, we must of course comply with them. Otherwise, I agree that we could actually have found out for ourselves on the Danish side. On the other hand, there are perhaps some Eastern European countries where little attention is paid to the control of these rules, and I really think that these rules are mostly applied to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122455	The next brief remark is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122459	Of course, I'd guessed that mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen would consider this to be a kind of first step, or whatever to call it, on the road to the much-loved BAG, which we often hear about. And that is also fair enough, I think I have the same view. I would just like to make it a little more difficult, and that is what I would like to hear from the rapporteur, i.e. if there is no problem at all on the part of the Left in starting to transfer, for example. the roadside control to the Department of Commerce. I know, with regard to those roadside checks, that when the police take them out, you have the inspectors of the Federal Ministry of Trade and that they are not policely trained. However, if it is not at all problematic to start such a resort transfer, one might almost call it without having discussed it in a wider context, including, for example, with. The police union?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122606	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122607	Now it is always important to be inspired by the trade union movement, and that is exactly what I have done here. Because it's a big wish from 3F, the Transport Group I don't know how much Mr. Henning Hyllested communicates with 3F, but I communicate with them a lot, and it is a strong desire of the trade union movement, who would like to have something more effective control. It's not like it's to belittle the policemen who are working on this today. On the contrary, they are highly professional, but they are not very many, and that is why we have very low control pressure in this area, and we simply need to improve on that. It has to spread out in Europe, that when you come to Denmark, you're in control of this, so you can't skip where the fence is lowest, and do unfair competition and override road safety. Because that's what happens very often. And that's why I'm in favour of this model. And if you can find out in Germany and it works well in Germany; we in the Transport Committee have seen that with our own eyes then I think we can also make it work in Denmark after a sensible transitional period, where of course we have to make sure that it is deeply professional people who work with this, just as today there are just more people who have to deal with it. And it's naturally under the Ministry of Trade. Then it is also the case that the police circles also have a responsibility for these roadside checks. And there I heard only yesterday that there are examples of even driving accidents that the police do not even check the tachograph in the truck to see if there has been a breach of the driving-rest-time rules. So there is room for improvement in this area, and we are ready to discuss this with other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122729	Thank you. And then it's sir. Henning Hyllested for second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122733	Well, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, it was spot on. After all, this is essentially about resources, and it can be said that whether it is in the Customs Authority or whether it is in the heavy goods vehicle police, which, after all, has the character of some kind of transport police, can be of no consequence if the resources are sufficient. And that is exactly what has been the problem with the resources of the police, they have not been present. And the heavy goods vehicle officers have been used for border guarding and terrorist action, and I'm gonna give you everything but what they have a really long education for. And that may be the problem. I don't suppose it's gonna solve anything if we don't have resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122813	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122814	But, of course, resources must keep up, and more resources have been set aside for this, and that is also necessary. So the resources have to keep up. But only yesterday I had a discussion here in the Chamber with the Minister for Justice about this on the basis of an article that has been in the Truck magazine called the Heavy Truck Control sailing. So there is reason to listen to the trade union movement and the other organizations in the transport world in relation to this. So I hope we can meet for a discussion of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122842	No one else has asked for short remarks, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010122853	Thank you. This bill contains several elements, the first of which I would like to mention, is the implementation of part of the agreement on strengthened compliance with the rules in the field of motor vehicles; there will also be a bill later today in the field of taxation, which translates the part that lies in the field of taxation. We are part of that agreement, which is why we naturally support it. The reason for this was quite simple, namely that quite massive exports of vehicles were fraudulent. As far as I remember, there have been audit reports, and the Ministry of Taxation itself has also produced a report showing that there was actually massive fraud with what is called the self-registering system, in other words, where you as a trader could register for yourself what your car was worth, and then you could, on the basis of it, refund the registration fee that was in difference. It has obviously been found that this could simply not be dealt with in the industry, so a new model has been found where we abolish the self-reporting system and where it will then instead be the Motors Board that will have the power. But with this proposal they can go out and say that there must be some special sightings that should then be allowed to stand for it. In the past, it has been the company itself that stood for it, and it is clear that it costs some money to get an authority to do so, and therefore there is also the introduction of some fees which must help finance it. I think this is a good way of financing it, in other words, that it is they who export cars, who then also pay for it actually being valued correctly. I think that is quite reasonable. So, of course, there's support for that part of the bill. The second part, which is also mentioned by other rapporteurs, is that the works council will have access to these roadside views. As has been said, it is the police that pull the trucks to the side, and then it is the Customs Authority that does the control itself. But the police are also under pressure today, so I really think it makes sense that you choose to say, "Why don't you let the Department of Trade itself pull some in and do this control to get this done?" I think that is actually quite reasonable, so we support that. Then there is the last part which I also mentioned in my question to the rapporteur of the Left, which I think is rather strange. Because we think it is quite reasonable that we have a check on these large commercial vehicles, but the more fundamental thing is whether it is really the European Union that should decide what Denmark's control pressure should be in one area. Now it is on the roadside view, but should it also be a kiosk fraud or corporate cheating or VAT carousels? The countries can find out for themselves. If we do these checks, it's to get a behavior regulation of business so that they actually stop driving illegally, and if it works then we need to have exactly 5%. Or 5,200 checks? No, it may well be that it could be reduced for a period of time, and then you could do something in another area where you could see that there was a bigger problem. It could also be that it turned out that there were massive problems, so you actually gear up for a number of years. But the countries must be able to decide for themselves what the pressure of control should be. I do not think it is appropriate to have a supranational authority such as the European Union, which decides that this is exactly the control pressure that should be in the individual Member States, because I think it is possible to find out for yourself, either here in the Folketing or over in the Ministry of Transport. So I would actually just like to say that I think it is a bad idea to think that a country's control pressure should be determined on the part of the European Union, because that is what we do best even in the Member States. Those were supposed to be my words to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123159	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. Excuse me, did someone come? There was. There's a couple. The first one's from sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123210	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. What I noticed at the end was the fact that the rapporteur felt that it might as well be unnecessary to do all these checks. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he is aware that this applies to freight vehicles on Danish roads. It may be Danish vehicles, it may indeed also be foreign vehicles, which drive many of them. When I carry myself around on the roads, I sometimes see some cars where I think it might be very good to check if safety was really in order. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is important that we have this control function in order to ensure that foreign lorries in particular do not roam around the Danish roads and are a nuisance and uncertainty and serious danger to other road users?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123301	Thank you for the question, because then I will also have the opportunity to clarify what I myself thought I said in my rapporteur's speech: that I do not think it is unnecessary to check. I think that is quite reasonable. It was more the principle of who should then determine the control pressure, and I think the Danes can find out for themselves. I fully agree that it is important to control these lorries, including the foreign lorries, because it is, of course, a cross-border business. It is very natural to drive around the whole of Europe with goods. But it might be that in Denmark we find out that there are actually very massive problems, and then we gear the control pressure up to 6,000 cars, but it could also be that the following year we found out that the control pressure had worked and that it is not actually in Denmark that there are problems, so we can gear down to 4,000 controls. On the other hand, Austria could find out that they actually have massive problems so that they keep the high pressure of control. The Member States can find out for themselves, so it is not for or against control. It is for or against who should decide it. I am therefore confident that in Denmark we can find out for ourselves what the control pressure should be in this area or on kiosk fraud or VAT fraud or other things. I just think the Member States can find out for themselves. It's fine, there's got to be control. I am not opposed to that, but we can find our own way of determining the control pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123403	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123404	Now, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær such a very one-sided focus on Denmark, and I have no doubt that we in Denmark can find a way of putting a control pressure according to what is needed. But now it is also good about EU cooperation that in this way there has actually been a regulation which also means that in other countries you have the same control pressure, so that we also make sure that in Poland, Hungary and other countries you check the lorries and the goods that drive around the roads, so that if they move up to Denmark, they have also had the opportunity to be checked there, and then there is a greater likelihood that no one is bothering Danish road users.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123446	I really think we should have the Prime Minister's opening speech in mind, where the message was that we in the Danish Parliament should also be careful to legislate for example. all the municipalities of the country once we have seen a problem. After all, it is the same thing that applies at EU level. If you can see that there is a problem in one Member State while the rest can find out, do you have to make standard rules because one country cannot find out? I do not think there is necessarily a good solution. I actually hear Mr. Thomas Jensen says that Denmark probably can solve this problem and that there are other countries that can't. But that does not mean that the European Union must decide. Then you must put pressure on those countries and say: there are trucks coming from you, and we can see that some of them are falling through. This can therefore be solved in other ways than having such a lowest common denominator, where everyone is simply bombarded by the same legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123526	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123530	It is rather the same, because I do not, in fact, disagree with the rapporteur that it is basically not something that the European Union should decide. However, does the rapporteur not believe that this has also arisen because even the European Union has been alarmed by the extent of, what can be said, illegal cabotage and the violation of driving time, that is, all the mess, to put it bluntly, that is, on the roads? I agree with Mr. Thomas Jensen in that it may be very sensible in relation to the countries which today are perhaps mainly Eastern European countries that almost do not control or do so very leniently, but what I find problematic is that the EU then sets a limit, and the problem with such a figure in Denmark, is that it quickly becomes a minimum control, where we do not make use of the possibility of actually gearing up higher, and that is really it. We should not boast so much in Denmark. So, heavy goods vehicle control is seriously lagged in Denmark because you use heavy goods vehicle police for anything other than what they are good at.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123639	I can actually just confirm it, and I think that is a good argument too. Well, unfortunately, we often see that it becomes minimum control, and then, like what becomes the standard for it, we fulfil our obligations, and then there is no more focus on it. That was my message. There could easily be a period when we can see that we are now being flooded by lorries in poor condition, and then we will gear it up to 6,000 or 7,000 controls, and vice versa there may also be a period when we can see that it has actually improved and where there could be another area in the area of road traffic, which then needs an additional control effort. So, as a country, we can find our own priorities between what problems are on the Danish roads right now, and I do not necessarily think it is from Brussels that we can best see which control pressure is exactly the right one. It is not because I am opposed to control, but I do not think it is in Brussels that the best way to see what the challenge is on the Danish roads. We can find out for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123723	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123735	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party had an excellent review of the content of this bill, so I will not repeat that, but just highlight two points. The first is that this bill is part of a major agreement here in the Folketing to increase control of cars when they are to be imported into and exported from Denmark. There were a number of media, including: Jyllands-Posten and Danmarks Radio, who revealed how they were cheated and perhaps just failed to pay the correct registration fee and customs duty when cars were exported. So, with a little Jysk understatement, one can say that there may be a need to increase control of this, and fortunately all parties agreed on that. This bill is then the part within the Ministry of Transport's area of responsibility, and later today there will be a draft law on what is within the Ministry of Taxation's area of competence, and of course we support that, just as all other parties have done. The second is that we must carry out checks on vehicles, both in relation to driving-rest time, but also in relation to whether the vehicles have the standard they are now going to have, and that the sight of vehicles has been done correctly so that the car can brake and is not falling apart and all such logical things. There the Ministry is now proposing that the Department of Commerce should help the police with that task, and I see this as a very logical and sensible relief from the police so that the police can also spend their time on other tasks. So the fact that the Ministry of Transport as such is taking over tasks from the police, which the Ministry of Transport and, in this case, the Ministry of Transport can easily take over, we warmly support, because there is a need for police officers' time in many other places. So with the two comments, we can say radically that we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123938	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I will give the floor to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Valentina Berthelsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010123948	Thank you. I think I'll make it pretty short. It is, of course, an exciting debate that comes out of something like this, but as has already been mentioned, it is for the purpose of implementing an agreement that the SF is also behind, so we naturally support this proposal. I really have nothing more to say about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124015	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will pass on the floor to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124032	Thank you. It has been explained that it is part of a larger agreement, a very good agreement, which Enhedslisten is also part of, and which was basically about getting rid of fraud in the whole question of assessing the value of used cars for export. We wanted to reduce fraud, for fraud was simply being committed all around. It was very good that you made the agreement where the main element was simply to abolish the completely insane principle that you could assess the value of your car yourself. This, of course, meant that they were judged quite wrong. This is a small corner of it, where you introduce a better customs view of those things, and that is a prerequisite for the Motors Agency to ultimately set the right value. It's the DMV that will do it in the future, and not people themselves. That's really good. The draft law sneaks in, if I may say so, something quite different too, and that is what we have already been in and discussing. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen and also Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is the whole question of the fact that the Department of Commerce must take over it and be given the opportunity to carry out these roadside inspections without the presence of the police. This is in the light of the fact that the European Union has set targets for a minimum of 5,200 roadside inspections, i.e. vehicles to be taken for roadside inspections. I also mentioned it in my question to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, namely that it is beginning to taste like BAG; I never use the German translation, but that is what it says in German. In fact, I do not think that is entirely unproblematic. So, in the Enhedslisten, we are really hot supporters of a unitary police force, and we actually think that in such situations, where there may be confrontation in the air it is not the ordinary thing in the roadside view, but it may happen that there is an authority present that has the right to exercise power and that can force a vehicle to the side. It is not, of course, because we think that the police should necessarily use people who have a long police education. In advance, when roadside inspections are carried out, where it is the police that plan and take out, you also use the inspectors of the Danish Roadside Administration who are not police trained. It's former mechanics and drivers and truckers and probably everything else, too, who know about those parts. That's very nice, and it could easily be done under the auspices of the police. In the end, as I also mentioned in one of my questions, this is all about resources, and I guess it's a little about who's in charge. I think that the Danish Trade Administration may be a little irritated about it, and there may also be problems in meeting the targets. It is the police who like to decide that now you do some visions and invite the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority and all sorts of others. Of course, it would be nice if the Danish Trade Administration could decide for itself and could go out on its own. I can see that. But, as I said, it is not quite straightforward. At any rate, I think that it calls for a greater discussion of it if we are, as it were, on the way to developing a transport police force, also because I think that we actually already have the contours of a transport police force, the heavy duty car police. If only they were allowed to do what they are really good at and what they have a really, really long training in, namely to control heavy transport and especially heavy commercial transport. I won't let them. They're used for everything else. I have mentioned border controls, terrorist guarding, yes, there is not what they have not been used for, and that is really a pity. So it's a matter of resources. There is no doubt that police control has not been good enough and that you do not live up to the quality of that. Once again, it's a matter of resources, and then you cheat a little bit on the weight, and then you cheat a little on the weight. However, we do not believe that this is the only way to transfer this task to the Danish Trade Administration, at least not without a previous discussion. Then I would like to say that we also think that the police force may need soft jobs, not those very, very hard jobs that are being experienced in the police force and so on. You need those soft jobs. It is one of the hardest things you can experience, that is to say, being a policeman, and it is physically and mentally stressful. This must also be taken into account, so that in the corps there are some jobs that make you, when you stay over 40 years or 50 years of age in the police, or when you have experienced wear and tear mentally and physically, still be there
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124558	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. And I found that the rapporteur corrected himself, and that was fine. There is a brief comment to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124609	Thank you. It was just for that, sir. Henning Hyllested said about possible transfer of tasks from the police to other authorities. I understand that there is considerable scepticism, although a single transport industry, including 3F Transport, believes that this is the way we should go. So, as I said, we have no doubts about that. But Mr. Henning Hyllested used the argument that when there is confrontation in the air, there should preferably be police present. That is what I am asking: is there not a certain chance that when there is a parking attendant there may be confrontation in the air or when it comes to a doorman for a disco club out at night or a guard in connection with a big festival etc.? There is a great deal of confrontation in the air, and that is something you can find out about. And if there's any real trouble, you call the police. Why, then, cannot this argument be used in this case, where there is a relatively peaceful roadside control? Is it because there may be some parties who have a strong interest in ensuring that the police retain all the tasks under their auspices and which prevent sensible overall solutions here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124719	There are certainly different interests, depending on where you ask. I now feel that an argument is also that I like the fact that police officers in the police force may not be quite as helpful to a minister as officials on a board. I think that also has some value. It actually appeals to me. But it is true that this is not unproblematic, I would like to admit. And it is not the case that we in the Enhedslist are very firm in that there can be no transfer of tasks to, for example. In this case, the Department of Commerce. But it is absolutely true that we are sceptical about it. We think it is a good thing that in the exercise of regulatory control, in the exercise of authority which may occur in different contexts, whether in the nightlife or in a resting place on a roadside check, there is the presence, if I may say so, of the decisive authority, the one who can also exercise power.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124823	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124825	Thank you. Well, I'm sitting here enjoying Enhedslisten's new-found love for the police. That's fantastic, because I think we need more police. But if you go back in history, it may not always be that Mr. Hyllested's party companions have been supporters of the police. Let it go. I just have to say that the fact that civilians are doing this works well in Germany. Then perhaps it could work in Denmark too. What I want to ask you is these soft jobs for aging cops. Oh, I get that. They're not going to war with gangs and riots on Nørrebro, etc. But couldn't you imagine other soft police jobs for the cops investigating burglaries that aren't being made today, or traffic control? One could start here outside where illegal activities are happening all the time, or it could be a strengthening of the local police. Could one not imagine other soft jobs for the police, which unfortunately are not being lifted today?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124915	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124916	Yeah, you could do that. But it is clear that as resources are transferred to the resort of other agencies, there will be fewer and fewer jobs to share. I certainly believe that a corps like the police need that kind of job too. It is a hard work with mental and physical stress that you have. Gangfight, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen himself mentioned, and many other things can be mentioned. We know. It's one of the toughest jobs in the world. That is why it is necessary for that corps to have an opportunity to have, if I may say so, a soft withdrawal or at least a break for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010124953	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Henning Hyllested and welcome Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125004	Thank you very much. Very well said, many details have been added, and I shall neither tire the Chamber nor the many, many thousands of viewers who are watching at this time, with various things and matters in this matter. I can say that, in general, we can support strengthening the control of vehicles in the context of vision, including roadside inspections. It is also written in the bill that, in addition to the police, the Agency will have access to direct heavy vehicles to the roadside itself. This means to me that there will certainly not be fewer officers on the street and hopefully even more. We are very, very happy about that. We also support the strengthening of the quality of customs supervision carried out in the inspection centres, where the condition of the vehicles is assessed prior to export. As the self-registering system lapses, in future all vehicles will have to undergo customs checks prior to export. We regard this as a good solution, also to stem any stray vessels that might be in that industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125107	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125117	Thank you for the floor. Rulefulness is the headline of this, and that means that we must avoid people paying too little or with an everyday word cheating in connection with paying customs. And then there's the road safety thing. We would like to help ensure better customs supervision in relation to exports, so that the correct duties are paid. And we also support the fact that this extra customs inspection is being financed with the users and that the Agency is being given access to pointing heavy commercial vehicles to the roadside to relieve the police and solve the task of the 5,200 additional inspections imposed by the European Union. That is why we support the proposal, which is essentially the implementation of the agreement on strengthened compliance with the rules in the engine sector, which we ourselves helped to adopt on 2 April 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125222	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125239	Thank you. A lot has been said about this. Generally speaking, we in the new citizens have a concern about this bureaucracy in the area of customs supervision. There is quite a lot of bureaucracy ahead of us, and we have a concern about whether there will be more bureaucracy and whether this will result in some of the big companies that are complying with the legislation because they want to get hold of some small companies that are not complying with it. That is why, at least, I intend to put some questions in committee when we deal with this proposal for a directive in committee. As far as roadside inspections are concerned, we can only support the fact that there will be an opportunity to control the large vehicles that drive on the Danish roads. This is true of buses and buses. It's also a question of safety, for example, it could be tourist buses or these big trucks. So the fact that you have the opportunity to have more of these roadside views and check in this way, we can only support it, because it's all about safety. We do not think that it is the European Union that should dictate it in any way; Denmark must of course find out for itself what makes sense to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125408	Thank you. And there is one brief comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125414	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. My question is about bureaucracy, which you are talking about. It's just to find out exactly what part of the bill it was about. Because there is the part of the legislative proposal that concerns the fact that we have seen that there is a great deal of fuss with customs supervision about the export of cars. And then I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with us other parties who think that there is a problem there and that we should do a little extra work there to ensure that there is no cheating.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125441	Thank you very much for the question. Well, we are in complete agreement with that. Where we see a problem, there are some large companies who are actually doing this very well and who may even have people employed to get it fixed quite correctly, and then you hit the whole palette instead of targeting, what to say, the smaller ones who cheat. So that's why I'm thinking I'll ask you more about it and be curious about it when dealing with it in this process when we deal with the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125514	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mrs Mette Thiesen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125525	Thank you, President. With Bill L 15, the Folketing implements an agreement on strengthened compliance in the motor sector, which was concluded at the time by all the parties which were then represented in the Folketing. And that is why, fortunately, the draft law is also one of these many legislative proposals which are characterised by common sense. This is an uncontroversial agreement which puts an end to the cheating that has unfortunately been done in the motor sector, where there has been fraud over very large sums of money, which has meant that we must have a fight with the way controls have been carried out so far. The question was asked earlier about the bureaucratic issue, and I can say that when I prepared for the bill here, I found that in the time of the health customs, it was so that if a ship's captain underdeclared the cargo on a ship, the state could buy the cargo for the underdeclared value. One might have gone that way, but this proposal is also good and there will be no amendments from us. There will also be a legal basis for fee-financed customs supervision and roadside checks without the participation of the police, which we think is a good thing, and that is why, of course, we support the agreement we have made ourselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125653	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we have been through the series of rapporteurs and the next speaker is the Minister for Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010125703	Thank you to all the rapporteurs, thank you for the very positive reception of this bill. It has been examined very, very carefully by the rapporteurs in many ways. It was, as I said, a unanimous Parliament that agreed on these principles before the elections, and therefore it is also natural that there is an indication from the parties to support the proposal. New Citizens were by their very nature not part of it at the time when they were not represented in the Folketing. I have also taken note of Mrs Mette Thiesen's comments on a generally positive statement, but that there is also some concern about possible bureaucratic influences. For the sake of good order, I have to say that this immediately sounds like a concern about the legislative proposal which corresponds in the field of the Treasury, that is, what is called L 24 and which is also being dealt with a little later in the Chamber today. But as the tax minister is also present, I think the tax minister has already taken note of this. Roadside viewing has been discussed a little in the debate, and I think that, for the sake of good order, I just want to make it clear that, despite the fact that there is an EU regulatory requirement, an EU target of 5%, which means that in 2019 we are going to have to make views on 5,208 vehicles, it is for me to see not a bad target figure; that, in fact, is incredibly sensible. It is also important to emphasise that the EU's target figures are not an upper limit, and that means that we can easily choose from the Danish side to carry out more controls than that. What should then be said in return, and which I think is a little important to make clear, is that the works council per. 30 September of this year has recorded that only 2,315 preliminary roadside inspections have been carried out this year, which means that we are missing 2,893 initial roadside inspections. It shows with all due clarity that there is a need to strengthen the ability of the Danish control authorities to carry out roadside inspections. I should also like to say that there has been a small debate about what is being done in other countries. As it is relatively new that reporting to the European Union in this area is going to take place, we do not have an overview of other countries' control pressures at the present time; and therefore we cannot say whether Denmark is above or below this point in relation to others. I also think it is important to establish that Mr. Henning Hyllested's comments that the comments to the bill indicate that the roadside inspection will continue to be carried out in cooperation with the police, and that the new powers of the Agency are intended only to supplement the existing system, so that the Danish authorities can fulfil their EU legal obligations. As far as I am concerned, it is also very important to stress that there is no question in terms of whether this is a poor quality of control by the Danish Trade Administration. On the contrary, I think that the staff of the Danish Trade Administration are doing a very good job, and that is why I think it is only good that we now also ensure that we can live up to the framework to which we must live up to. As I said, I am very much looking forward to the further examination of this bill and I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130128	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130132	Thank you. This is rather the same question that I put to the rapporteur of the Left, namely why the European Union should determine the number of roadside checks. After all, I share the view of the Minister that it is a good thing to increase controls, but it is more the principle that it is the European Union that has to determine the number of controls and the pressure of control that is the problem. Could it not be the Folketing or the Minister who fixed the control pressure? This is how it is in all other areas of Danish society; there it is typically a power that one has as minister, which is then delegated to a governing body. But why should the European Union decide this? Well, there may well be periods when we need to gear up, but there may also be periods when we say that it actually works well out there, so we gear down a little and use the forces somewhere else. So what is the logic of the EU having to decide this, and not the Danish government deciding it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130215	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130218	I would like to start by emphasising that I actually think that the target figure that is now in place is right, very sensible and gives the right control pressure. What is a little tormenting me is to be able to see that we are not up to this, and I would therefore like to make it quite clear that we should have a higher control pressure than what has been proposed. I think, on the other hand, that it is very sensible for us to ensure that other countries too have a high control pressure. Road transport is, of course, very often cross-border, and that is why it is only good if there is a high level of control in Sweden and Germany and in other neighbouring countries too, so that we ensure that the lorries that drive around the roads are actually safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130314	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130316	It is quite obvious that it is important that other countries also control their vehicles and that it is not only Denmark. But I really think that one could refer to the Minister's own party colleague, the Prime Minister, who, in the opening speech, made a point of saying that because one can see a problem, one should not always solve it at the level one is at. In other words, because we in the Danish Parliament can see a problem, we should not solve it for all of us in this House, there may well be some countries that do not know how to control their commercial vehicles, but is that not the country that needs to be dealt with instead of lubricating a pressure of control over all countries? Well, I do not think it makes sense for the EU to determine the control pressure in Denmark. So we can find out for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130355	Yes, and that is why I hope that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær's remarks must be taken as an indication that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also believes that we need to do more checks in Denmark, because the government believes that we should at least do that. And it has to be said that it is quite clear that we have not been able to live up to it this year, so far at least. We are lagging behind with the number of checks carried out so far this year, and I do not think that one can be proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130426	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130442	The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130507	Thank you. I shall be relatively brief in relation to this draft law, which is, of course, the re-submission of a similar bill by the previous government. It is proposed to abolish the right to the special deduction rules for financial undertakings and the draft law is a consequence of the European Commission's conclusions where the special deduction rules have been found to be incompatible with the State aid rules. It is of course important for the government, for the Social Democratic Party, that we respect our international obligations, and that is why the bill here also states that the Danish rules are in line with the EU's state aid rules. In addition, the draft law also contains changes to the capital requirements, which were tightened in the context of the financial crisis. Today, the banks are much better equipped and can therefore do without them. Finally, the incentive for companies to rely on loan capital rather than equity capital is also lifted, and this is positive for the economy and for the companies themselves. We can then ask the meaning, that is, is the consequence of the abolition of the special rules to create uncertainty about the legal situation in the future? There is the answer: No, the general tax rules and practices that already apply to non-financial enterprises will apply in these cases in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130643	There is one question from Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130645	This is a re-submission of a bill from the spring. However, it is a little surprising that the part where it says that the money coming in here will go to finance the agreement on senior pensions concluded between the then government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. Can the rapporteur state why it has been withdrawn from the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130709	It will of course be the case that this proposal has led to criticism from various quarters, and in relation to the question put by the rapporteur, the answer is that it is the assessment and that is the priority that the government has found reasonable here. And it will also be a debate that we will be able to discuss in the subsequent committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130743	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130746	Is it to be understood that the Socialists do not support the agreement on senior pensions? For the Socialists have said in the past that they would support that it was made, they were just not satisfied and they did not think it was enough. Are the Socialists no longer backing up the agreement on senior pensions, now that the money will not be set aside for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130802	Yes, we certainly do. That is the clear answer. We are still supporting the proposal for a senior early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130814	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær has asked to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130818	Thank you. I would actually like to follow up on what my colleague from the Left asked me about, because there is something I do not understand. If you support the senior pension and it was previously stated in the bill that it finances it, why has the action been taken so actively that it is taken? Why couldn't it be allowed to stand there? It is actually very normal for us to refer, in our legislative proposal, if there is anything that provides a revenue, to the agreement in which it is then included. That's what we usually do. The Social Democratic Party has so actively tampered with that part of it that it goes to senior pensions. So what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130853	Well, as I replied to the rapporteur from the Left, there is no doubt that the Social Democrats continue to support the proposal for a senior early retirement pension and that we will of course also support the funding that needs to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130904	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130906	I would actually just like to follow up because in the Radical Left we are also surprised that this wording has been tampered with by the comments of the draft law. As I understand the rapporteur's answer to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, it is tampered with because it is. I would really like a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130929	I would point out that this debate can also be taken into account in the subsequent committee work. Here and now and on the bottom line it is said that we support the senior early retirement proposal and that, of course, we will also support the funding that needs to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010130948	We thank the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. The next speaker is Mrs Bjerre from the Left, who gets her debut speech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131009	Thank you. As a newly elected MP from North Jutland, it is with great pleasure and also with a certain humility that I stand here today on Parliament's platform for the first time in my life. I have looked forward to that, and I have looked forward to addressing what it is all about, namely the legislative work. Today we first deal with L 22, a legislative proposal that abolishes the right to the special deduction for so-called Additional Tier 1 capital for financial issuers. In this way, the tax treatment criteria for deduction are normalised and assimilated to non-financial issuers. In addition, the draft law ensures that we do not run the risk of being at odds with the EU's state aid rules. The draft law is very much about the banks. With the introduction of the special deduction on Additional Tier 1 capital, politicians handed a helping hand to the banking sector after the financial crisis, but today the banks are quite another place, fortunately. The banks are healthier and therefore they no longer need to be taken into account by special rules. In the Left, as most of you probably know, we are against higher taxes and more taxes, and in that light, of course, I am a little tormented that the bill aims to abolish a deduction. However, in the Left, we are also in favour of fair and equal conditions of competition, and with the draft law, we will have the same tax criteria for interest rate deductions, and when the European Commission also believes that the special deduction for Additional Tier 1 capital can lead to positive discrimination, we take it seriously in the Left. I note that we in the Left are assuming that the proceeds will be committed in the context of the agreement on entitlement to a senior pension for worn-out persons, for which there is still a majority in favour here in the Folketing, and on this basis the Left will vote in favour of the bill. I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the draft law with the same comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131218	No one has asked to speak, so we thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre, and go further in the rapporteur's line. Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131230	Thank you. As I have said, this is a legislative proposal to remove the right to deduct interest expenses from what is called Additional Tier 1 capital. The deduction is, as the draft law also shows, from a time when our banks had to be upholstered more so that they had something to resist when there was a potential new financial crisis. It was then part of it that this deduction was granted because Additional Tier 1 capital could then replace equity capital and thus also give a padding, and it could be good at that time, but now it seems that the banks are better upholstered. On top of that, the EU has announced that this deduction can act as illegal State aid to the banks. That is why it is proposed to be removed, and that can be sensible enough. I should like most of all to welcome the fact that what has also emerged from the debate is part of the financing of this agreement, which has been made around the entitlement to senior pensions for the worn out, where these 350 million are. kr. We in the Danish People's Party think that a scheme is quite reasonable. But I would also like to say that I wonder why it has been chosen to take it out of the agreement, because it is a pure standard in here that, if there is funding from a legislative proposal, it is also shown which agreement it will then form part of. It is evident that action has been taken to ensure that it does not appear in the report. It gives it doubts whether it is because it does not then support the fact that the funding goes over to the senior pension or whatever else might be for reasons. I really think it is a little too bad that an action has been taken to ensure that people simply do not know that this money is going to senior pensions. On the side of the Danish People's Party, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131400	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for the rapporteur's speech, and then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131410	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we also support it. The banks are now much stronger than they did after the financial crisis, and therefore there is no reason why they should retain their special right to deductions from Additional Tier 1 capital. According to the European Commission, the special Danish right to deduct is not in line with EU state aid rules, which is why the Commission has asked us to change the rules, so Parliament should abolish this special treatment for the financial sector. The banks should have the same conditions as all other professions, so the Radical Left also supports the proposal. Furthermore, the abolition of the special deduction is estimated to result in a revenue which is included in the agreement on entitlement to senior pension for worn out between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. So for the Radical Left, the proposal is a Kindergæg. We are doing what the European Union is asking us to do. We stop the special treatment of the banks, and we finance the senior pension we expect. Then support from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131514	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor for the rapporteur's speech, so we go further in the rapporteur's line, and now it is SF, Mr President. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131524	Thank you. The Socialist People's Party supports the removal of the banks' special advantages. There shall be no special deduction for so-called Additional Tier 1 capital and investor interest from Additional Tier 1 capital etc. Financial undertakings shall be treated in accordance with the general rules of tax law. In general, the proposal presents sensible changes in both the law on equations and the law on exchange gains and the law on pension taxation, which is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131553	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131605	After all, this is a right, sensible legislative proposal, which addresses the fact that the European Commission has found that the Danish special rules on Additional Tier 1 capital give rise to positive discrimination against the financial sector. It is not, of course, because we on the part of the Enhedslisten are the main supporters of the European Union, but are praised for the one that should be praised, and we agree with the European Union here, and it is good that this tax hole is closed. Hybrid core capital is actually a loan to the bank, but it is given on very special terms. First of all, it can never be terminated in principle and therefore it is considered to be almost as good as the bank's own money, the equity capital. In practice, this is not normal debt and interest payments, and therefore the European Union also believes that a positive preferential treatment is being granted to the financial sector where these are eligible for an interest rate deduction for Additional Tier 1 capital. The proposal will then remove the special deduction for Additional Tier 1 capital and allow the financial sector to benefit from the normal tax rules, where that is not sensible. That's 350 million. kr. in the Treasury it is certainly worth taking along and lucky, it must be said, because the conciliation parties behind the senior pension agreement, which Enhedslisten also supports, which, even before the bill was dealt with, had snatched money to fund this otherwise excellent agreement. In relation to the question of senior pensions, which is just up and running here, I would say that the real problem is that the agreement that has been made is underfunded and that a bill of up to a few hundred million kroner has been left to be collected by the new government in order for the funding made for senior pensions to be fully linked. We're gonna have to pick up some parties. It would be obvious that this is also part of this equation. But that is not the real problem. The real problem is that this is also an example of how money has been spent and agreements made, where money has not really been found, in the real world, and so the bill has been passed on to the majority which now has to clean up after this sort of thing. And we'd love to. There's 3.5 billion. kr., which must be found, and the new majority must find them, among other things. A couple hundred million dollars in this area, too. It would have been nice if the money had been found for something as sensible as a senior pension, rather than for lasting tax reductions, which had been agreed for 2015-2019 and which would cost nearly 22 billion each year. kr. If other political choices had been made, which had been more socially just and more financially responsible, it would also have been possible to finance the senior early retirement pension in full. But we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131852	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to say that it is also the case for ministers that there should be no call from the Chamber, but I take it as a positive surprise in this matter. So we move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010131917	Thank you. In the alternative, of course, we do not think that banks should have special advantages over other companies. We think it is good that the positive preferential treatment for financial companies, especially banks, is being abolished. Interest expenses must be treated on an equal footing with general tax rules. The simplification of tax rules is always something that we support in the alternative. We want greater transparency in general. So on that point too, this is really good. The 350 million. kr. can be used for many good things • for senior pension and also for green conversion or other welfare. And I think that a major political decision must be taken in relation to where the money is best spent. In the alternative, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132015	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Then we move on to New Citizens, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132025	The European Commission has established that the Danish tax rules may lead to a positive treatment of the financial sector and may thus constitute unlawful State aid. However, as I read it, it has not been established, but it is a general assessment that comes from the European Union, and in New Citizens we do not lie flat on our backs every time the European Union says coffers. I do not think that the government should do that either, and I do not think that the Danish Parliament should do that in this matter, and that is why we cannot, of course, support an expenditure of 350 million. kr., which one starts out at the business community. If you know a little about it, you will also know that it is not certain that this expenditure will only remain for business, but that it may also be put on the customers, in other words ordinary Danes who have pay accounts and mortgage loans and bank loans and all sorts of other loans, and where the cost is passed on. I cannot help but say that on Tuesday we dealt with another matter, which will also throw out extra expenses on the business world, and that means that, in a week like this week of 41 weeks, I have been involved in dealing with cases where almost 0.5 billion is thrown away. kr. In addition, expenditure on the business sector. It is true, a great deal of money, and these proposals also state that the industry is likely to pass the bill on to users. We do not want to be involved in this, it is not a bourgeois policy, and I am surprised that, as in the election campaign, the parties were running with the slogan that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane, so bloated, blindly and naively voting for these things. We will not be part of this in the New Citizens' Party. That is why I also have a few questions about the treatment itself, which we might be able to look at. Because have all countries implemented this, and do all countries intend to implement this? So, can we be absolutely sure that this is something that the European Union stands firm for all countries to do? It might be nice to have a practicalisation of it. I know that some countries are involved, and I think that it was Holland and Sweden that were compared to the EU, but is it all countries that follow the EU's recommendations in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132241	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132248	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 22 removes the special right to deduct interest on hybrid core capital, which is, after all, the re-submission of a draft law before the elections, in almost unchanged form. Like many others, we are also astonished that there is no longer any mention of the agreement on entitlement to a senior pension for worn-out persons, but we will probably have the opportunity to learn more about that. The deduction that existed there is a considerable risk that the European Union will override, so we think it is sensible to be on the safe side, and therefore, of course, we support the legislative proposal that has already been put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132347	The rapporteur has to stay on the floor for a second; there is a question from Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132354	It was only if the rapporteur can confirm that the European Union has not specifically said that this is contrary to EU legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132409	That is quite correct, but there is a risk that the scheme will be overruled. Of course, it is a matter of assessment whether you want to take that risk, but we do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132418	Would the Liberal Alliance, as a bourgeois party, not agree that it would be better to wait before imposing an additional tax of 350 million? kr. in a banking sector which is likely to pass the bill on to the citizens? Would it not be better to wait until we can be sure that the European Union is saying that we have to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132438	But that depends on how to assess the risk. It can be very expensive for the state if it takes a very long time and then, for example, there. a refund claim is made. I believe that the total repayment claim in the infamous Ambisag from the 1980s is 51 billion. kr. That's 51 billion. We are talking about, so it is a serious matter to be overruled, and that is where we believe, having considered the matter, that we should not accept the risk of the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132508	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010132518	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for supporting this proposal. The words have, of course, been largely positive, and let me just dwell on one of the issues addressed by the rapporteur of the new citizens here. It is about state aid rules, as has also been the case. It is true that what has been found here is that this special access to deductions, which the financial sector has, can be seen from what I intend to say here later, too, as both the Netherlands and Sweden have done. So it is not unknown, nor for the financial sector. So that's why it's all about it. Then the question has been asked about this, and I could almost hear that it would be asked how it can be that it is no longer apparent that the proceeds of this bill are intended to finance the senior pension agreement. There is a simple reason for this, and I do not think that for people who have been in here a little longer, it will be a surprise. A government which is not, from the outset, part of an agreement makes and implements legislative proposals, and, if there is revenue then, it must decide how it should be dealt with afterwards. I can say that, if this element of funding in the senior pension agreement was the biggest challenge, then I think that one should try to look at the gap that has been struck in the box of the overall agreement. For the reality is that, if we look forward to 2025, there is a shortage of 0.75 billion. kr. in the financing of this agreement. I think we should try to engage in discussions over at the Ministry of Employment on how to close that gap. Because that's true, as Mr. Rune Lund has said that the cashier's check-up has shown that, in addition to the fact that there may have been some particular challenges in the field of taxation and in the field of police, when we entered the door, large bills and a total hole in the box of up to 3.5 billion have been left. kr. That is where I think we should perhaps start by meeting in the Ministry of Employment and helping to finance this agreement. It's just said, so you know what it is I'm going to answer when the questions are asked anyway. But in addition, of course, I would like to thank you for your support for the bill. It is not a great surprise that there is relatively broad support for it. As has already been said, this is a re-submission of a legislative proposal from the previous government, and I am, of course, pleased with the broad support for it. The draft law ensures first of all that there is no doubt that the Danish rules also comply with the EU's State aid rules. We must, of course, be prepared for it, and it is absolutely necessary and also absolutely right that we have international obligations which must be respected, and in this case the Commission has therefore found that there may be problems with the special access to deductions that the financial sector has, and those problems relate to this particular hybrid core capital issue, in other words that the deduction may be incompatible with the State aid rules. That is why this proposal for a directive is primarily about removing these doubts, and I am very pleased that we are doing so and, as I have already said, I can also say that our neighbour Sweden has chosen the same model, that is to say, the abolition, and the Netherlands as well. At the same time, and this must also be borne in mind, and this is indeed welcome, we are clearing up some of the special rules that come from the post-financial crisis period, when new and tighter capital requirements were put in place for banks. Those of you who were here during the financial crisis remember that we did. Today, fortunately, the situation is different and the banks are better equipped to cope, even without special advantages. Finally, with the abolition, we also remove the incentive for companies to rely on loan capital rather than on equity. I just think it has to be said that those of us who have helped to make, I don't know how many bank packages, should think this is particularly positive, because the financing of greater equity is good, not only for the company itself, but it is also very good for our economy. That is why I have to say that the overall legislative proposal and the overall repeal, which this draft law is about, is the right exercise and solution. It is clear that, when special rules are repealed, questions may of course arise as to what the legal situation will then be in the future. In this case, as is apparent from the draft law, it is not a deduction, but the general tax rules and practices that will apply, that is, the rules that already apply to non-financial companies, and that is something that has been set out in the draft law. So in other words, thank you only for the relatively broad support and that I look forward to a good reading of the draft law in the further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133055	There are three who have signed up for a reply, and the first is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133101	I am once again surprised that the Socialist Government will not support the agreement on senior pensions. Firstly, it was something that Mette Frederiksen said was going to vote in favour of in the election campaign, that is to say the agreement on senior pensions, and, as I understand it, it was also part of the understanding paper that was made with its support parties when you got the government power, namely that you wanted to back the senior pension agreement. How does this relate to the removal of funding for the senior pension agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133132	As has already been shown several times, the Social Democratic Party supports the agreement. What is the fight right now is to get those who have made the agreement to help find funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133143	After all, it is very easy to blame others when you remove the funding that has been found. The first step is not to remove the funding that has been found for it, so how can it be that the money set aside to carry out senior pensions is removed when you say that you want to support the senior pension scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133204	The fact that the funding is not explicitly described in this bill does not mean that it is not included in the agreement and in the discussions on the financing of the senior early retirement agreement. I believe that the best thing for the Left, as well as for the Left, is to try to reflect on whether it is so particularly responsible that we leave a hole in the treasury of 3.5 billion. If you leave government offices and make a big deal, as you are again here today point out, it is important. We agree with that. But then I just think you owe answers to how you're going to find those 750 million. kr., which the agreement has been made, is therefore not financed by, if we look at how large the actual gap in the financing of the agreement in e.g. 2025 would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133247	For the sake of good order, I must point out that the Prime Minister is referred to as the Prime Minister and not by name. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133257	Thank you. First of all, I would like to comment on the fact that the economy that the government has taken over should be so bad. After all, one has started to be able to raise the benefits for refugees without having any funding behind the money, because the economy was actually incredibly healthy. And now you try to draw a picture that the money is missing, because of course you can't fulfill your own electoral vows yourself and it's all the rest of us's fault. I just want to ask the tax minister what the 350 million. kr., which this bill brings about by removing the deduction for Additional Tier 1 capital, will be used for. What does the Minister suggest that that money should go to? You've obviously deliberately removed the connection to the senior pension... is it because you want them to go to something else? Because otherwise you could just leave the clutch there. There must be some reason why this sentence has been removed from the old bill. What's causing this? Don't you want to spend this money on the senior pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133347	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133348	The reason it has been removed is that the government is not included in the agreement. But we support it. I think sir... Dennis Flydtkjær will know that if you look at previous government changes and previous agreements that have, like, crossed government changes, it will not be a surprising exercise. But what I think would be the best thing to do was if the Danish People's Party also took the rapporteur of the Left in hand and went to the Minister for Employment and helped fill up the gap left behind in this agreement, which amounts to up to 750 million. kr. in 2025. That's a joke anyway. I think you should go over there and see if you can't find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133428	An easy funding proposal could then be that you did not spend a few hundred million kroner on raising the benefits for refugees. You could have thrown them into that pool. But you could then find money for that money, and you could otherwise start using it as part of the financing. I do not quite buy the reason why they say: 'Well, yes, but the government was not included in the agreement'. After all, a majority in the Folketing is still behind the agreement, even though the government was not in it, i.e. even though the Social Democratic Party was not in it. After all, the coupling is still in place for that funding, because the agreement is being supported and funding is being supported. Then why take it out? That doesn't make any sense. I only see it as some sort of leg span to cast doubt on whether there is even a senior pension and whether there is funding. There is no reason to take it out if you support it anyway. Or is that what you do? Well, I think that's a bit of a searched explanation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133513	No, it's actually very real. And if you look back in history, you'll see that it's not unusual. Social democracy and government aren't part of this deal. Discussions are currently taking place with the Minister for Employment and I understand that discussions are under way. And there I just think you should try to take each other's hands and then go over and solve what is the real challenge. I have to understand that if you look forward to 2025, there is a shortfall of up to 750 million. kr. in this deal that hasn't been found. Well, that's a joke, to put it in nice Mid-Jysk. An agreement has been left with a huge hole in the box, and that agreement is a very, very large part of the cashier's check-up, as the Finance Minister explained in the presentation of the Finance Act, where the total bill left behind is close to 3.5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133606	Thank you. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. I should just like to say that if you want to speak the second time, it is helpful up here if you remember to press the button, because then we will have a more fluent transition between asking and answering, without the President necessarily having to act as mediator. It is just that for the sake of the flow of the debate. And then it's sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133631	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the Minister can confirm that it is a question of the EU not having the ability to do so, which is why it is the Danish Parliament alone which now decides to spend 350 million. kr. In addition, there is a need to improve the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life and the quality of life.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133659	It is true that what the Commission has found is that the very special access granted to the financial sector for the deduction of Additional Tier 1 capital may be incompatible with the State aid rules, and that is why the previous government took this decision, and the current government is following suit and saying that that change will be made. It is, moreover, a change which follows on from what other countries have done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133724	I take this as an answer to the fact that the Minister himself does not now mention two countries, but I would like the Minister to mention what the other countries of the European Union are going to do in this area. You mention Sweden and Holland yourself, but what about the rest of the countries? Are they going to follow what can come from the European Union, or how are they going to deal with it if they have similar arrangements?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133755	In my speech today I have mentioned Sweden and the Netherlands, and what other countries are in conflict with the State aid rules in the financial field, I think I am calling for a question in the Committee on Taxation, and then I am quite sure that there are officials in the Ministry of Taxation who would like to help answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133818	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133837	We are opening the rapporteur's line. Sir. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010133855	Thank you. The legislative proposal, which we are now considering, is a partial resubmission of L 212, which has been supplemented by two further new proposals. The legislative proposal strengthens legal certainty, and this is crucial for confidence in the authorities and hence the cohesion of society. It is therefore well in line with the government's efforts to rebuild confidence in the authorities and, in this case, the tax authorities. Long waiting times create uncertainty for businesses and citizens, and that is not sustainable. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister of Taxation is now resubmitting a legislative proposal aimed first and foremost at reducing processing time in appeals cases. The part of the bill that is retabled consists of the implementation of legal certainty package IV, for which there is broad political support in the Folketing, in addition to a more effective procedure, it is proposed to introduce a new appeal board structure, and this is done by changing the distribution of cases between the tax courts and the national tax law, so that cases are targeted at the decision-making authorities' competences, which is quite reasonable. Furthermore, it is proposed that, from the beginning of next year, cost compensation should no longer be granted in appeals and legal proceedings for the revocation of decisions on the refund of dividend tax, and this also makes good sense. It should not be the case that foreign companies and pension funds have access to use the Danish subsidy scheme to try to withdraw decisions on the refund of the dividend tax by the administrative appeal authority. I look forward to the forthcoming committee reading, and I welcome the fact that the legislators are now giving a real boost to the strengthening of tax authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen would like to make a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134052	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask a few questions about the position of the Social Democratic Party on the legal certainty of citizens. If the state makes a decision and you want to complain about that decision and then you get right to the state, is it not reasonable for the state to reimburse the costs that have been incurred when you are right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134113	I do not think it is fair that foreign companies and pension funds should be allowed to use the Danish subsidy scheme to test these withdrawals of decisions on the refund of dividend tax by the administrative appeal authority, so I think this change to the bill is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134136	Yeah, but the bill also contains other things. After all, it is also a matter of property valuations, and it certainly affects Danish citizens in particular. So what is the position of the Social Democrats in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134150	Well, it is evident that in everything we do from legal work in the Folketing, we must of course ensure legal certainty. I am also convinced that we will not be at odds with this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134210	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Louise Schack Elholm of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134218	Thank you very much for the floor. As has already been said, we are now discussing the legislative proposal on legal certainty package IV... on a new appeal board structure and a faster way through the appeal system. This is, of course, because it has been an inappropriate way in which the complaint system has worked so far and with very long processing times. That is why we must now reduce the processing times and provide more resources so that we can have a better and more effective complaint process. That is why we are proposing a new appeal board structure. We are going to have 22 tax courts with 176 members, 10 of whom are specially appointed members with tax expertise, and 15 assessment boards with a total of 350 members. That seems to us to be a very sensible thing to do. It is also a proposal that has grown in our garden, one might say; it is the former Left Treasure Minister who has made the agreement with all the parties of the Folketing. So we think it is very sensible to get the cases distributed more on the basis of the different mechanisms of redress and to ensure a stronger professionalism. However, there has been the change that the term of office will now be extended by 6 months until 30 June 2020 for the current Tax Appeals Boards, while the term of office of the Assessment Appeal Board and the Joint Appeal Board will continue until the end of 2020. As I understand it, the same Members cannot sit on both boards, and it will probably pose a challenge to ensure that there are enough board members because it will certainly be some of those who sit on the Joint Appeals Boards that are needed in the Tax Appeals Boards and in the Assessment Appeals Boards. That is why I would, of course, like to hear from the Minister during the committee reading how it will be ensured that there is still room for some Members to be allowed to sit on two boards. For what I imagine is that the members of the Joint Appeals Boards will leave them to enter the Tax Appeals and Assessment Boards, and then the term of office up to the end of 2020 will be just on paper and not in reality. So how is this to be handled in an appropriate way? But with those words, I can say that the Left supports the bill. And I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134424	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Danish People's Party, and that's Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134434	As I have said, this is a re-submission of a previous bill, which we in the Danish People's Party then said we supported, so I can already say that we are doing so this time too. It is the implementation of an agreement on a new board of appeal which all parties who were in the Folketing during the last period before the elections were included in, and therefore I expect that there will naturally be broad support for it. Fortunately, most people probably do not need to complain about the tax administration, but vice versa, it is also incredibly important for those who need it, that there is a good complaint structure with appeal boards, the National Tax Office, etc., and there it has helped to improve it, at least the part called the processing period, which has proved to be very long, and therefore there has also been a focus on many different measures. I would also like to say that this agreement is an expression of a compromise in which there is something better than other things, and that is how we feel in my party too, and that is how it is for all of us. I would say quite unconventionally that I am actually really glad that we got a lot of tampering out of the previous government's proposal. It is said that it was legal certainty package IV, but I would say that it had very little to do with legal certainty, in other words in the sense that it at least reduced legal certainty in many areas; for example. we have been tampered with that we should not be allowed to meet with the caseworker, because it was not intended to be able to do so. I think it is a good principle if you, as a citizen, have a little doubt as to how this matter lies, what is assessed, and then you can actually ask to have a meeting with the caseworker who sits and looks at your case, and you can still do so. So I actually think that there were a number of deteriorations in the original, which we have got tampered with, and that is good. Then I would like to say that I also think that what it suggests with the reports that were looked at and that led up to the negotiations is that the problem was actually in a completely different place. The problem with the long duration of the proceedings was not the citizen's legal claims, among other things. case officers and other things, but the problem was in the Tax Appeals Board. The report says very clearly that there is a difference in productivity between the departments of factor 6, so there is really something to come for, I think, in the Tax Appeals Board in relation to productivity, which can help reduce the processing time, rather than just looking at the legal certainty measures that the citizen can do, because I think that was not good. The draft law contains a number of practically different things, and I do not know whether I should go into detail on everything, because I did so at the first reading last time, but there is, for example, one. In this respect, the Court of First Instance has held that the Court of First Instance did not have jurisdiction to rule on the question of the compatibility of the aid with the common market. I think it is a good thing that we are getting something done on VAT estimates and other things: the more complicated cases are going to be dealt with in the national tax law, which was not really planned before we made this agreement. The opt-out system is being lifted, which I am not at all happy with, but it is part of the compromise, and I can also see that it can make better use of resources in the tax courts and in the national tax courts respectively. Then there is one measure on which I know there was some disagreement, but we managed to get it into the compromise, namely that I think it is positive that we should strengthen the tax courts by providing 10 professionals with tax insight who can assist the members of the General Tax Appeal Boards in the assessments they make. I think that can be very good in terms of legal certainty, in other words, that both citizens and companies know that there are some professionals who can assist in matters. So I really think that this basically is a very fine compromise that has been reached by the various parties. I think we all have something that we think is good and bad, but basically it is a quite good compromise that you can see yourself in. I also think it is good that there is broad support when it comes to legal certainty. So we support it from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134758	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Radical Left, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134807	Thank you so much. I would like to express my great pleasure in hearing the various reviews of this bill by my fellow rapporteurs. It is a pleasure when, as a newcomer in the Chamber, you can hear how the experience sounds through these return rounds, so that they for a new almost experienced as a form of continuing training. It's really nice. I would also just like to welcome the Radical Left and say that, of course, we are in favour of the proposal. We see this as a sensible improvement in the complaints system, a sensible improvement in the legal certainty of our people, and then we are pleased that we can implement the legislation in this instance because we did not achieve it before the elections. Thank you for your cooperation and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134850	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134855	Thank you. There are several good things in this bill that we support. Among other things: We in the Socialist People's Party want to tackle this problem. And as the tax minister writes in his speech, it is neither fair to citizens nor to companies. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134917	We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010134922	As I also mentioned on behalf of the Enhedslisten, when we dealt with the legislative proposal in the spring, we think that there is a very good political agreement behind this bill, because it is precisely an agreement and therefore also a legislative proposal in relation to the legal certainty package IV, as it was said, which means that we have strengthened legal certainty, that we have reduced the processing times and that we have strengthened the layman element of our tax complaints system. I actually also want to say again, as I did during the debate in the spring, that I thought that on the Enhedslisten side we had a very, very good collaboration with not least the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party in this area. For what was, after all, the draft agreement that was first presented to us was a proposal which would undermine legal certainty and would weaken the layman element. And we actually ended up somewhere else. So I think it was in this way a fine process that leads to something that is very sensible today. As I also mentioned in the spring, when you look at the consultation answers, there are also some points of interest that I would like to highlight. One is, of course, whether the courts will get a greater amount of cases. It is the case that national tax law will deal with matters of principle, and in this way it should be taken into account, but it is clear that we need to follow developments and see how this is going to be done. Then there is the second point: the role and function of the ten tax experts, which is something that Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær is very concerned. It is the case that the Minister of Taxation must lay down detailed guidelines for the use of these specially appointed experts. This is something that I think we should also follow a little into, because it is, after all, about how something that is a layman's institution is playing with the fact that there are some people who have tax expertise. This may be an advantage in that the Tax Appeals Boards will be able to discuss in greater depth the assessments that come from the Tax Appeals Board, but it may also be an undermining of the layman element itself or the layman thinking of our structure in the area of complaints. So there can be for and against. Basically, we probably believe on the part of the Enhedslisten that this will be a strengthening. In any case, there is just the problem to be pointed out, that is to say, that the layman institution is strengthened by the fact that there are some experts who are, so to speak, on the side of the layman's institution and who can give a better insight or a counterweight in the discussion about what comes from the Tax Appeals Board. On the other hand, it is something that brings professionals into something that is a layman's institution, something that can undermine the whole idea of a layman's institution. But we must, of course, follow what happens when the rules are implemented and how they are applied. Then there is the new thing in this bill, and it is the term of office that is being extended. We can support that. And then it is proposed that, from the turn of the year, no cost subsidies should be granted in complaints and legal proceedings for revocations of decisions on the refund of dividend tax. We can only warmly support that. So, there is no reason why the people who have been involved in the profit tax scandal should have been paid out on the wrong basis, even if they have been defrauded. These are different cases... so that they can also recover their costs in this way, i.e. get them paid by the Danish state. I would also like to mention that precisely the question of cost compensation was part of the so-called legal certainty package I, and it was the case that, so to speak, the cost compensation was improved in this way. This was one of the key elements that made it impossible for us to support the legal certainty package I at the time. Now, fortunately, there will be a partial roll-back of the cost compensation that happened with the legal certainty package I, and that is in relation to the cost subsidies in complaints and legal proceedings for the withdrawal of the decision on refund and dividend tax. It is, of course, a step forward that this roll-back is taking place precisely in this area, but there is a reason for me to have the entire cost-benefit agreement or the whole part of the legal certainty package I which deals with cost-reimbursement. At least that is something I would like to talk to the new tax minister about, that is, that we will just have it visited and see if the model that was made at the time was really the most clever model. It means, of course, that the legal offices of large firms or others, as we have seen here in the tax scandal, can go in and apply for reimbursement for the expenses they have incurred in these legal proceedings that are running between the Danish state and some people that we believe have been fraudulent or have at least been paid out on the wrong basis. I don't think the taxpayers' money should go to that. We can use them on other things. But we're happy with this bill. We are in favour of this, and we are therefore going to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135433	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135441	Thank you for the floor. We can only support this agreement on faster roads through the complaints system. Reducing processing time in a complaint system is a very important thing, because having lodged a complaint and waiting for answers can have personal costs, and it can also have financial consequences. Around cost compensation, it is quite reasonable to drop it because it is unreasonable that we give access to typically foreign companies, pension funds and funds to use Danish subsidy schemes to try the revocation of reimbursement decisions in relation to dividend tax. So we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135532	Thank you. Then we move on to New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135540	Thank you. The scandals about the dividend tax are well known, and I might as well be honest with the Minister and with the Danish Parliament: as a citizen it has been appalling to stand and look at how not only changing governments, but also Parliament and officials, naively and blindly, have balked and wielded our treasure crowns. We need to make it right. When we, as citizens, have been forced to hand in half our money to politicians and into a state money that could have done better in our own pockets or that we could have spent on basic core welfare, it is tragic, and it is tragic to see how this money has been scalded and used. One of the things we are looking at here is whether there should be a refund of the costs you have when you have to complain about these tax cases. A basic healthy principle we have in the Danish state, which we must preserve and we must develop, is in my view that if you are up against the state and you will complain about the state and you will be right in your complaint against the state, then it is the state that has the bill; it is not the citizen. I understand perfectly well that some people's sense of justice may be violated when we look at the pension funds and other things from Canada and elsewhere in the world that have emptied the Danish treasury in this way. That is why I would like to see it possible to set up a system in advance, so that it was not the small savers who were affected by this, but that it was the big players in the field, so that, for example, we could not have the small savers who were affected by it. a little Mrs. Hansen, who lives in Malmö, was safe so she could still do it. Perhaps we could discuss at committee stage how many large players there are, how many small players there are, so that we might be able to secure the small citizens and still hit them as we would like in this area. In addition, I am always deeply concerned when the state makes it more expensive to be a citizen, and so is this proposal because the fee for complaints is increasing. The proposal itself mentions that it can go beyond what is called the de minimis threshold, and therefore it would also be natural to have an answer as to how many cases have been below the de minimis threshold in the Minister's view and what amounts it then deals with, for that must have been concluded since it has set a de minimis limit. In addition, I'm missing a few target numbers. If you make such a structural change for the processing of cases in this area of complaint, which may be quite reasonable, we also welcome the fact that you are doing what is the expected improvement in this? Have any expected targets been set on how much time can be reduced? I would like to hear that in concrete terms, because the proposal costs a little money anyway, which is why it would be nice to see what the expected effect of this will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135840	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and then it's the Liberal Alliance. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135849	This is an excellent legislative proposal which helps to ensure better processing and, above all, reduce processing times, and we support this. There is, of course, this rather special element that was added on whether or not to grant compensation for costs in cases of refund of dividend tax, and the Liberal Alliance broadly shares some of the considerations and concerns that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has expressed this, and this must be looked at during the committee work. But, of course, we support the draft law, which, overall, is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135926	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010135938	Thank you very much for that, President. And thank you for the debate here on the proposal. There were a few questions to the proposal, which, as has already been pointed out, is, in general terms, a re-submission of the previous government's agreement on legal certainty package IV. The rapporteur of the Left asks whether, now that the draft law has incorporated a ban on certain dual functions, as it is called, there will be enough Members. It is now my belief that there will be, and I believe that this ban must be seen in the light of the discussions that have also taken place in the drafting of this agreement. Because it has always been the aim to ensure both a more effective procedure but also a continued local anchoring, and we think that the right balance has been struck with that. Following on from that, I would also like to say to Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær: It is true that, since the Social Democracy was not in government, the Social Democracy was involved in making this agreement. When you look at the game that came from the government, compared to where it landed both in terms of the number of boards and other things you can safely say that a compromise has been found. After all, it was a very close cooperation between the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and also the Enhedslisten in this area, which helped to give it a quite reasonable balance, I think. I must say that I am very pleased that we have actually found that breadth in the agreement here. Then Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, of the New Citizens' Party, on the consequences of the fact that it is now said that there should no longer be cost compensation for the withdrawal of decisions on the refund of dividend tax. Well, I kind of think it's perfectly reasonable. When we talk about withdrawals, I think we have to say that it is not Mrs Jönsson on the other side of the Sound, it is about, but the large pension funds, foreign companies and foundations which have had an opportunity here to obtain an allowance, in other words a subsidy to run a test case in connection with the desire to withdraw this dividend refund. I think that is perfectly reasonable if I am to be honest with you. We can easily drill it into committee proceedings, but I just think it should be borne in mind that those we are talking about here are typically foreign corporations, pension funds and large funds. What are the target figures for the whole concept and the agreement in some of these areas of procedure, etc.? Are we going to have the efficiency we want? I think we can try to make a proposal for this in committee. But first of all I would like to thank you for the positive reception here of the draft law, which is, of course, a partial re-submission. I think that the draft law addresses the fundamental problem that we have been facing for too long, namely that it has taken far too long to deal with complaints. This is a problem both for the individual citizen and for the companies as well, and it gives rise to uncertainty when the handling of complaints is dragging on. And that's why I'm glad that a broad majority in the Folketing has addressed this. There is no doubt that it can represent a great financial burden for the individual • it is both citizens, but also companies • when the experience is that the waiting time in these cases is dragging on, and it can be a completely unfair situation to stand in. At the same time, as I said earlier, it is also important for me to strengthen confidence in the tax authorities. I also think I have to say that reducing the length of the proceedings in these cases is also something that can help to strengthen both the duration of the proceedings and the confidence in the tax authorities. That is why I am pleased that we have managed to reach a broad agreement on the legal certainty package IV, on which all the parties in the Folketing supported at that time. And today we are discussing the bill, which contains a number of measures that help both to make the complaint process more effective, but also to increase the productivity of the tax authorities, while at the same time the tax insight was also an important discussion in this context. As I said, this is good both for citizens and for companies, and it can help to increase confidence in the tax authorities. The bill is also to be seen in the context of the new structure of the Tax Appeals Boards, which is to preserve and future ensure a strong layman element with a focus on • as several of you have already mentioned the local anchoring. As I have said, this is a re-submission that we are discussing here today, and since the draft law was not adopted before the discharge of the parliamentary elections, it has been necessary to add a few elements to the re-submission here. And it has also already been suggested in the debate that there is an inbuilt proposal that it should be published per year. On 1 January 2020, it shall no longer be possible to obtain reimbursement of costs in appeals or proceedings for revocation of decisions on the refund of dividend tax. As I have said before, I and the government do not think it is reasonable that, as I have said, typically foreign companies, pension funds and foundations have the right to use a Danish subsidy scheme to test withdrawals of decisions on the refund of dividend tax by the administrative appeal authority and, indeed, possibly also by the courts. So with regard to this part of the proposal, I am very pleased that there seems to be very broad support for it. A number of new elements were included in the proposal as a consequence of the fact that it did not reach completion before the election, but basically it is a proposal whose purpose remains to ensure a new board of appeal structure; to ensure that there is a faster way through the complaints system; to strengthen local anchoring; and to reduce the processing time in the administrative complaints system. So once again I would like to thank you for a good debate. And I look forward to a good and constructive discussion and discussion of the bill in the parliamentary committee after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140621	The debate will continue a little longer. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140624	Thank you. As I also expressed in my rapporteur's speech, I have neither the intention nor the desire to keep my hand under some international capital administrations. My concern was that some small savers were affected in this area alone, and I hear the Minister say that they have no intention of doing so, and they do not expect to do so here. And I thank you for that. Then I would like to ask a few questions about the de minimis when you raise the fee for the citizens. I would like to know whether the Minister could go into it a little further, and it would be fine if it were just to stay in committee. Just so the minister remembers it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140659-2	Thank you for that, President. The last question I think we should try to turn around in committee. It can be said that the aim of the change in relation to the cost compensation is to do something about the unfairness of foreign companies, foundations and other things being asked to repay money that they think they have been wrongly paid, to try the cases at the various bodies where there is a chance to test them. I don't think that's fair. And that's also why it's written into the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140732	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140753	Sir. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140811	Thank you. We will see the bill as an extension of something that has been visited earlier this day in the transport sector. The legislative proposal, which we are now going to consider, is part of the implementation of the agreement on strengthened compliance with the rules in the field of motor vehicles. As you know, the agreement has been concluded by a broad majority in the Folketing, and with it we are tightening up the rules for the payment of export refunds. And then we strengthen the tax administration's control options. Today it is the case that self-reporters have the opportunity to give up the value of a car to be exported. However, an evaluation of the scheme has revealed that some of the companies indicate a higher amount in the compensation • it is an amount to which they are thus not entitled. It is a breach of trust, and we must and will not accept it. That is why I am pleased that the draft law here proposes the abolition of the self-reporting system in the field of exports. In advance, the Board of Engines may determine the value of used vehicles at the time of export with a view to any payment of export refunds. In other words, the risk of paying export refunds is reduced on the wrong basis. That is a good thing, but it is a heavy and expensive task for the tax administration to carry out. That is why I think it is reasonable for car exporters to be charged a fee if they wish to receive the compensation. The second part of the draft law is about stricter fine practices in the area of taxation. It is proposed to equate the level of fines for the avoidance of registration duties and other excise duties with the level of fines generally applicable to tax avoidance and VAT avoidance. And it's only fair. Of course, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010140952	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has asked for the floor, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141008	Thank you for that, President. Like L 15, which we dealt with a few hours ago, the draft law here also aims to implement the measures included in the broad political agreement, agreement on strengthening regulatory compliance in the motor sector. The draft law contains a number of points that we must now implement, and what is all intended is to do away with the broken vessels in the industry that have come to misinterpret the rules, come to indicate some wrong values, etc. So what we want is to increase regulatory compliance and reduce the risk of fraud within the industry. For fraud is, of course, unfair, that is to say if you are going to get paid some money you are not entitled to, but it is also unfair competition between car dealers, for example, if something like this happens. There are a number of measures. Let me mention that we are abolishing the self-registering system, so that it is the Motors Board that sets the value of second-hand vehicles to be exported in the future; let me mention that the level of fines will be tightened if registration fees are avoided; and let me mention that there will also be a charge for processing at the Motors Board, because now it is they who will have to do the job of getting the car valued before export refunds can be paid. That is all very well, but I have also read the consultation answers, and there are others. Some answers from the automotive industry point out that we have not hit the dial enough, because these are the stingy vessels we need to come after here. So they propose that we look at whether we can target the bill a little more, and I think that we should try to look at that in committee, i.e. whether we can become even sharper to target it. Because, of course, we are not supposed to create any bureaucracy that goes beyond all the law-abiding in the industry. I have also taken note of the fact that this bill actually provides additional revenue to the Treasury, and that was not the original intention. There's a plus for the Treasury of 10 million. kr. by implementing this, as far as I can read. So that is also something we would like to ask why we should actually have an additional revenue. One could imagine that this would be cost-neutral because, as I said, it is a question of getting people to comply with the rules. With these comments, however, I would like to say that the Left can support the bill. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141250	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141300	I shall try to be relatively brief, since earlier today I was also the rapporteur on L 15, which was, after all, about the same thing, i.e. the implementation of this agreement in the motor sector. In short, there were a number of frauds and problems in the motor sector, mainly with what was called the self-reporting system, which is now being abolished, and this is dealt with in the tax field with this bill. It was an agreement that we were part of, and that is why we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141324	Nobody's been pushing for a line. Then we move on to the Radical Left with Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141333	Thank you so much. With this bill, the defamed self-reporting system will have the final death blow. It must no longer be possible to assess the value of cars you want to sell and thus cheat on the registration fee when the cars are exported. The values stated have often been above the tax authorities' own values, and several reports and studies have pointed to extensive cheating, often three-digit millions of dollars each year. Self-notification has led to fraud, which unfortunately also goes beyond those who comply with the rules, as was also mentioned by one of my fellow rapporteurs. However, there is no point in having a system in which we almost invite people to defraud the registration fee, so it goes without saying that it is common sense to abolish the system. Now the DMV is taking over the task of determining the value. It is a large, heavy administrative task that many good tax workers will be able to take on time. That must be the pragmatic solution for the moment, but I cannot help noticing in this context that this area too could be simplified and modernised by a total shift in registration tax from a value-based model to a technically based model. The Radical Left is working for that. We would really like to discuss this further with the government and the rest of the Danish Parliament so that we can lift our registration system into the green age and, above all, use a technically based model to reschedule the car park and reduce emissions of CO2 but this is a discussion for another good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141502	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line with Mr Beazley. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141511	Thank you. With the bill, the government wants to implement parts of the agreement that all parties entered into during the last parliamentary term. The draft law provides for a number of amendments designed to ensure that the rules are complied with in the engine area. In SF, we believe that it is important to stop systematic cheating, and with this bill we take the recitals of the Danish Motor Agency seriously and also provide a more stringent fine practice, so that for example. no export refund is paid on the wrong basis. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141542	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141550	This bill is, after all, the implementation of an agreement that we are part of, and which we are very pleased to see, to strengthen compliance with the rules in the field of motor vehicles. Away is the self-reporting system, and a large number of good elements have emerged, for example. the need for customs supervision prior to export and stricter fines, to name but a few. It is a good thing that we have tightened up what has been a slaraffenland for cheating and speculation, as we have seen in the self-reporting system in relation to exports. Too many have been paid export refunds on a false basis and have been cheated violently. We are very pleased to be able to help ensure that there is just a little control over the engine area. This is a start, but the work is far from finished, and we look forward to further work on closing further gaps in the area. This is true in relation to the import of cars and in the leasing sector, where there are also a large number of tax holes that we must have looked at, because unfortunately there are far too many opportunities to cheat the Treasury and avoid paying the taxes that you have to pay and if it is not to cheat, then at least in order to mess with a tax law that is quite hollow. So there's plenty to work with here, and this bill is a very good bill, which is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141717	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141722	Thank you for the floor. An agreement on strengthened regulation in the engine area is a fine thing, which we also helped to vote in favour of in April 2019. The fact that the DMV determines the value rather than the value itself would mean that you would get the correct value and thus reduce the risk of paying too little and getting an erroneous export refund, i.e. cheating. Customs supervision prior to export will also mean that there will be less possibility of obtaining an erroneous export refund. What we in the alternative also think is good is that we get an increase in the level of fines, so that it is in line with the evasion of tax and VAT that is currently taking place at times. Then there are some small things that are also very fine. But something that we also like in the alternative is the social perspective: the freedom that we want to give to the municipalities, so that they have the opportunity to make decisions about the freedom of fuel tax and weight tax for people who have a lasting reduction in their ability to function. It is a very fine thing and it is fine to give the municipality the freedom to do things that make sense to citizens. So in the alternative, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141852	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. I'm sorry if there was a little unrest here, but it's because of the hyletone that several of you heard in the Chamber. It was a door that didn't close properly, but the problem had to be solved. Then I can give the floor to New Citizens. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010141916	Thank you. I thought it was tinnitus that played me a trick, but I'm glad that others can hear it too, so it's good I don't hear visions. That's nice. I think this case is a classic example of what goes wrong when politicians observe and are made aware of a problem. Because there is and has been a problem in this area and something that had to be cleaned up. No one can be against that, but the way you do it is both expensive and bureaucratic and goes in the wrong direction. First of all, if there had been no registration fee, we would not have had the problem. Secondly, it could have been solved if two to four people had been employed in the tax administration who actually carried out the checks in the places where it was necessary. But you don't do that here. This is where you cut a whole business all over the same place. And I think that's a little shameful. I think this is wrong because it is patched up with administration. And the consequences may be that there may be a loss of 50-100 private jobs, and it may be that there will now be more polluting cars longer on the market because it will make it more difficult. And then we have to remember something: how do we do that? You put a tax on DKK 1,900, which they now have to pay. Who's gonna pay it? Yes, unless you think that the entire export market is disappearing, that bill will be passed on exactly to the citizens, who will then get less for their cars. We will not be part of this in the New Citizens' Party. I also wonder about the amount of DKK 1,900. As I have heard, the tax minister can rebut or confirm it. 20 minutes working on a case like that. That is to say, you can reach three cases in one hour, and that really means that you have an hourly wage of about DKK 5,800. Then I understand that the tax administration is expensive to administer, if that's how you think all the way through. So for committee reading, I would like to be specified: exactly how long does the Treasury expect to spend on each of these cases? After all, the cost to the economy must be commensurate with the cost. Otherwise, it's just one way to get more tax dollars in and get more money for the IRS. So there's a whole series of questions that we need to look at in this area. Couldn't you differentiate between the different people in this market? If you have a large and established company that has existed for many years, where there has been a control that has shown that there are no errors in the assessments you make, is it necessary to put this administrative on? And then perhaps you have the small countless, yes, hundreds of exporters who have swindled; now let us hit them, and let us hit them hard and say that we will not put up with that. But to spread it beyond a whole industry, as you do in this way, where you send a bill to consumers, we simply do not want to be part of New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142250	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142259	Luckily, the Liberal Alliance wants to join us. We support the bill, and we do so with the same reasons as any other party that supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142308	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. There is one question, but with such short rapporteur speeches it may be difficult to get down and get in. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142323	I have not yet moved up the front of the Chamber; it takes a few years to get closer, so hopefully it will be easier with time. My question to the Liberal Alliance, of course, is: how can we add votes to something that increases the cost to business and that can increase the cost to citizens who can now get less for their cars, so that we can get more in the treasury, plus that at the same time we are pulling in private jobs and switching them out with public jobs?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142353	Well, listen to this: There is no soul in Denmark who is in doubt that we would like the tax system to be simpler, that there was no registration fee, and thus there was no recovery burden. But when there is extensive fraud and you can solve it with respect for equality before the law in this way, that is something we support and support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142418	But if there is now a solution which is much cheaper administratively than the solution put forward by the government, for example. If the tax administration had now carried out the checks that they should have done and that could solve the problems of that fraud, would the Liberal Alliance not be willing to look at it instead of such an expensive administrative solution, which makes car owners here get less for their cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142439	If we, together in the Committee on Taxation or through a completely brilliant amendment from the New Citizens' Party, find a better, cheaper and fairer way of achieving the same objective, it would be strange if we did not take a constructive approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142458	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010142501	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for receiving this bill, which is based on an agreement in which a unanimous majority in Parliament is behind a desire to strengthen the rulefulness of the motor industry. There have been a few questions. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left asks how it can be that there is an additional revenue, that is, a government income, of 10 million. kr. This is because of the abolition of the compensation for the cost of inspection of these export vehicles. The reason is probably very simple: it is a picture that there has been a problem, that there are some who have received too much in compensation, and therefore this income comes here. Yeah, I guess that's what explains it. In addition, New Citizens then say that if you could just remove the registration fee, you would have the solution to it all. What you have to answer is how the hell you're going to apologize, President, I don't know if that's a swearing word, but that's hardly what you're going to find, and that's the point, the 20 billion. kr., you're gonna be missing. We can then philosophize about this until we get to the committee work, but that is what would be the main problem. The question of differentiated procedures and what is the reason why we have precisely landed on this amount of fees that we are, I think we can respond to in committee. I have not been sitting with myself when this agreement was concluded, but I assume, of course, that this is something that has been thoroughly chewed through in committee work. However, as I have said, the draft law proposes to implement a number of initiatives aimed at increasing compliance with rules and reducing the risk of motor fraud. The point is that taxes in the motor sector generate revenue of approx. 35 billion kr. A year ago, and unfortunately, it has to be said that when there is so much money at stake, there may also be a tendency for some people to try to cheat more cheaply. That is why it is important that we have a well-functioning tax administration and that we have robust rules in this area. That's what the bill's gonna do. Today, for example, it is. the possibility of recovering part of the registration fee when a car is exported abroad, also known as the export refund. The evaluation carried out in this area has shown that a significant proportion of the companies exporting second-hand cars are paid more than they are entitled to because they do not comply with the applicable rules. In other words, there are some who, to put it bluntly, score an unjustified gain on the taxpayer's account. I must say that I fundamentally believe that we must take effective action against those who do not comply with the rules that the majority of our society is playing by and which we in the Danish Parliament have adopted. That is why I think it is a good political agreement that has been reached earlier this spring, because, as I have said, the agreement tightens the rules on the payment of export refunds and, of course, also strengthens the powers of the tax administration. One of the key elements of the bill is the so-called self-reporting system, which has also been mentioned in the debate. These self-subscribers today have the opportunity to indicate the value of the car to be exported and, on that basis, calculate the amount of the export refund to be paid to them. The reality of this system is that it therefore imposes rather heavy demands on companies' self-regulation, and that is what the evaluation has shown, namely that some of the companies often indicate a higher amount of compensation than they are actually entitled to. I do not think so, and I am quite convinced that this has also been at the heart of the discussions in the contracting circle. As a consequence of the lack of compliance with the rules for a significant part of the companies, it is therefore proposed that the export self-notification scheme should be abolished, and forward-looking car exporters will not be able to indicate for themselves the amount of compensation to be paid to them. Instead, it will be the tax administration that values the export cars and, on that basis, calculates the amount of compensation to be paid to the car exporter. It is a new task which is not free for the tax administration to carry out, and it is therefore also proposed that a fee, which has already been mentioned, should be paid for these DKK 1,950. per Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to receive a refund, you will have to submit a survey report for the car, just as car exporters will always have to do. So there is the reason why the fee has been chosen and has the amount it has. The proposal will therefore have economic and administrative consequences for the economy, but it will also help to ensure that compensation is paid in the future on a more uniform and therefore correct basis. The draft law will also see that it is also proposed to tighten the level of fines in the field of taxation, so that the level of fines is increased to double by the avoidance of registration duties and other excise duties, which may be involved, and this will mean that the level of fines in the motor sector is equivalent to that generally applicable to tax evasion and VAT. I have to say that I think is quite reasonable. Once again, thank you for a good debate, including on this proposal, and I look forward to continuing the good and constructive dialogue on the proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143108	Thank you. Well, then, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen asked for a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143112	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the answer about the proceeds, which I still want to dwell on a little. Because it's true that we're coming for the stumped vessels with this, and that's exactly what's meant to be. But there are also many law-abiding people who are now being affected by this, in that it is a little more bureaucratic and something more expensive and so on.; there are some costs to the many law - abiding. That is why I do not fully understand the argument that there should be additional revenue for the state. Now the minister mentioned this fee of DKK 1,950. You could choose to downgrade it so that it doesn't hit the law-abiding people so hard. These are the stingy vessels we're gonna come for, and we're gonna do that with this. So why has the government turned this up so that there will be additional revenue? I understand from the Minister's predecessor in office that the intention was not, in fact, that there would be revenue for the state. That's what's come in now with this, and why is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143205	It is an agreement; that is to say, the re-submission of an agreement made by the author's colleague, the former tax minister. What is the point of that is that the abolition of the allowance of DKK 400. In the case of pre-export inspections, this gives additional revenue of 10 million. kr. annual. I mean, the 400 kr allowance is abolished. So that's gonna give you this extra revenue of 10 million. kr. annual. And then Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, if that's fair. Why don't we just take it away? If we remove that revenue, then we do not have the money to spend on what is actually also the intention of it, namely that the proceeds should be used for what is also in demand, i.e. increased control and handling of any problems in the field of imports. That is also clear from the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143314	Yes, of course, but there remains the fact that we are hitting all the law-abiding ones a little harder than we need, because there is therefore an additional revenue, and I assume that the resources to be used for control are taken into account when calculating the total economic impact of the state as a result of this. So I will still be able to wonder, but I will ask questions in committee on this, so that we can get more details. I fully agree that the Minister may not be able to explain the exact figure on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143342	Would the Minister like to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143344	No, not except to say that we are, of course, answering the questions that are being asked. But I just think that if you dive into this agreement that has been made, you will see that there have been major problems and that there is a need for control, and that it may be quite reasonable that the revenue that then comes in by abolishing the compensation is spent on precisely that, that is to say, increased control. This shows the evaluation that has been carried out: that this is so much needed, so to speak, very quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143408	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143409	I always get so happy when people ask where the money's coming from. So we're spending 35 billion. kr. a year on non-Western immigration. We're spending 11 billion. kr. to external consultants. The parties get 1.2 billion. kr. assembled in all possible party support. We're spending 200 million. kr. to pay for redundancy payments for managers in the regions. You know, you walk in money in public, and I could go on. So we're happy when we hear this question about where the money should come from. I can make a long list, and I will soon come to that when I have to deal with the financial law negotiations and the first reading of it. So thank you for the question, and now the Minister got an answer to it. I would like an answer from the Minister. The notice refers to the European Court of Justice, but obviously it fails to refer, as I see it, to the conclusion of C-552/15. Could the Minister for Committee Affairs not include what that means? It was therefore a case in which the European Court of Justice was faced with Ireland, which had introduced something similar and which had then introduced a collective fee, just like this one, and where it was told that it should be an individual fee and that it should not be greater than what the cost was in the specific area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143532	I am quite sure that the agreement that has been made widely under the previous government has taken account of that, of course, but I am also convinced that now that the question has been asked, and it is possible to put it in committee, we will find a good answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143544	I'm glad. During the committee procedure, we would also like to have a specification of how long the tax administration expects it to take to deal with a matter. I know that the industry says that it for them takes about. 20 minutes, and now when you put such a case to cost $1,950, it gives just an hour's salary of $5,850, so I would like to know how long the tax administration expects them to spend on each case.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143618	Of course we will find out, and we will come back with a very good answer to that in committee. However, I think it is important to stress that the reason why there has been such a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament to tighten up in this way in this area is an expression of the fact that there has been a very clear perception across the Danish Parliament that there have been huge problems in this area, and the evaluation has shown this. That is why I also hope that in the end, when this bill is to be adopted, new citizens will end up pressing the green button.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143651	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee and, if no one objects to it, it considers it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143710	The debate is open. Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143728	Thank you very much. Here we are addressing something that a number of humanitarian organisations have called for us to do something about. The draft law we are about to discuss contains several elements. First of all, it is a question of refunding excise duties on surplus food and, in part, of implementing changes to the VAT directive. On the one hand, the draft law also contains new elements, such as: consists of amendments to the VAT Act with a view to consistency between the Danish VAT rules and the EU VAT rules. The bill can be divided into four parts. The first part concerns humanitarian organisations and the reimbursement of fees for chocolate, coffee and ice cream by associations, for example. are distributed free of charge in shelters, heating rooms or elsewhere. It should give companies a greater desire to donate or sell goods cheaply to the organisations rather than throw out the goods. And that is good because in this way we are doing something to reduce food waste and at the same time support social work with vulnerable citizens. The second part consists of implementing the amendments to the VAT Directive. The aim is to simplify and clarify the rules on VAT in particular. The third part includes an amendment to the VAT set-aside rules. The aim is that the VAT base should be more forward-looking in line with the value of the goods at the time of collection, so that the taxable amount becomes more accurate. The last and fourth elements are to tighten the screw against travel agents who are trying to avoid having to pay the correct or legitimate VAT. This must be done by introducing a safeguard clause designed to ensure that VAT is settled correctly, so that we do not, for example. via a subsidiary, that part of it is bypassed. I am, of course, pleased with the draft law, which we support, partly because, through tax legislation, we support the work of humanitarian organisations for some of the most vulnerable in society, partly because, at the same time, we are tightening the rules against some of those who are trying to evade the common rules of the game.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143931	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010143940	Thank you for that, President. The Left, of course, supports L 27 and it is quite natural because large parts of the proposal were already tabled during the previous government but were not implemented because of the parliamentary elections. The Left has a great interest in implementing the bill, as we consider it to be extremely sensible. As mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur, the draft law also contains several elements which all contribute to the alignment of VAT rules and which ensure that the Danish rules are in line with EU law. That's a good thing. Then I would like to highlight the part of the legislative proposal which deals with the reimbursement of taxes to support humanitarian aid work. This part of the bill ensures more fairness for companies, organisations, producers, importers, wholesalers, shops, etc. that support humanitarian aid work. At the same time, the draft law also creates greater incentives to support it, as companies and organisations can now recover taxes on chocolate, coffee, sugar confectionery etc. It considers the Left to be a very good policy and common sense, which is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144053	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. No one has asked for questions or answers to the rapporteur's speech, so we are moving forward. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144104	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, this draft law deals with a number of different sub-elements, i.e. it is such a joint legislative proposal. It is not the worst thing we have had of the kind, but there are, after all, different elements in it. The first element is the reimbursement of taxes if the goods are given to charity, Christmas help, coffee for shelters, heating rooms and something like that, where the premise is, of course, that you do not receive payment for it. That is where the charges can be reimbursed. We think that makes sense, and we might also avoid wasting goods that might otherwise have just been thrown into a container, but which can now go to something good, that is to say, because they are close to the expiry date or something else. That is quite reasonable. Another element is the implementation of a new VAT directive, where there are some steps to make it harder to cheat VAT on EU trade. This is the simplification of the rules on consigning stocks and chain trading. These are also proposals which I think are quite positive. It should be mentioned that it is also something that has been dealt with by the previous Parliament, and we supported it at that time too. A new element, which will then be included this time, is a safeguard clause in relation to the special scheme for travel agencies. It is the case today that travel agencies are not subject to VAT on sales of the whole amount, but only to profits, and it has actually been a little surprising not to come forward sooner, because it is such an obvious possibility of fraud. But you can then cheat on that by having a subsidiary, such as, for example, a subsidiary. buys the flights and sells them more expensively to the main company, which then has a smaller profit and thus also a smaller VAT payment. It is actually rather strange why there is such a special scheme; it may well be that there is a good explanation for it, but immediately it sounds rather illogical why there should be such a special scheme in this area. But I think that when it's there, it's certainly fine that we get some protection rules made so you can't speculate on it and cheat on it that way. So we support that action too. That is why I can conclude in the end that we support the entire legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144249	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144253	Thank you very much, President. The proposal here, as I said, is a legislative package with many good measures, and in the Radical Left, of course, we think it is a good thing that charities can get certain excise duties reimbursed when the goods are used for humanitarian work. This is typical of Christmas aid, where chocolate, ice cream, coffee and sugar confectionery will be more easily donated or sold cheaply to humanitarian organisations. Of course it's good. However, the point I am most enthusiastic about in the proposal, which I would like to draw attention to, is the inclusion of a safeguard clause in the special scheme for travel agencies. And what does that mean? This means that travel agencies now have a special scheme in which they pay only VAT on their profits, as is also described. Unfortunately, this has encouraged the creativity of the industry. They have set up subsidiaries that buy cheap air tickets and sell tickets dearly to the parent company so that there is virtually no profit on them when the tickets are sold to customers. And when there is hardly any profit, there is hardly any VAT to be settled. It's quite creative, we think. Travel agencies have abused the special scheme, and the Tax Office estimates that the Treasury has missed about 20 million. kr. a year, money that we could have spent on welfare. So, of course, intervention is necessary to eliminate the possibility of abuse; it is common sense. The Radical Left, as you all know, is a great fan of common sense, so we support the proposal 100%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144427	Thank you to the rapporteur, whom I would ask to remember to address in the third person. And then I'll give the floor to SF's sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144441	Thank you. Each year 540,000 tonnes of edible food is thrown out in Denmark. It is a scandal, it is a crazy waste of resources, and frankly I am appalled that this is not a problem that has been taken more seriously in here, given how high the climate agenda has gradually been on the agenda. This proposal is excellent because if it is cheaper for shops to get rid of surplus food, it probably means that less food will be thrown out. In addition, the proposal also benefits the socially disadvantaged. It is heartblood for me and for the Socialist People's Party, and that is why we support the proposal. However, we also have some reports on the legislative proposal. It appears from the material that at the hearing, parts of the business community have been particularly critical of the changed VAT rules for the procurement of capital goods. The draft law has been adjusted in the light of the consultation, so that only to a limited extent and only to the same extent as sales will be subject to taxation. There I would like to hear a clarification on the background to the amendment to the draft law. After all, this is also about the chocolate tax law, where SF has asked questions about the discrimination between milk-based and non-milk-based cocoa drinks in relation to the tax exemption, i.e. the problem that cocoa drinks based on cow's milk are exempt from tax, while cocoa drinks based on more sustainable alternatives such as oats, soya and almond have to pay a huge tax of DKK 26. per The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. In this context, we are interested to know whether it is true that with this version of the bill there will continue to be discrimination so that only milk-based drinks are exempted. And if so, what are the reasons for this discrimination? I hope to get an answer to that. Overall, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144636	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's Enhedslisten's turn. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144645	Large parts of this bill are a re-submission of L 223 from the spring, and it is a question of having the possibility of recovering certain excise duties if the goods are used for humanitarian purposes, and it is a good thing that can be Christmas aid and the prevention of food waste. That's very reasonable. Then there are some tightenings in the area of VAT on chain trading and combating VAT fraud, among other things, and we can also support this, as we could in the spring. Of new elements, there are some changes to the VAT Act's set-aside rules, in which the tax base should, as a starting point, be the purchase price of the goods rather than, as it is now, the manufacturing price. We interpret this immediately as a tightening-up, but we have some questions in the course of the committee procedure that we would just like to put to it in order to understand it fully. Then there is, of course, the closure of this tax gap, in other words the abuse of the special scheme for travel agencies, which has to pay VAT on profits and profits; this has led to some very creative ways of circumventing VAT payments. We are shutting that down now, and that is, of course, very sensible, so that we can support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144800	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010144814	I think we will also be supporting the bill. Most of it is, of course, the re-submission of something that we also proposed, so it would be strange if we did not have to support it still away. However, a few questions have been put in the answers to which I, like the other rapporteurs, need answers. I also need to be reassured that there is not a large number of extra costs for business. Danish Industry states, among other things, that they estimate that additional costs of up to 100 million can be triggered. kr. Annually for the profession in relation to Section 4 of the draft law concerning assets and capital goods covered by Sections 43 and 44 of the VAT Act. After all, we do not see ourselves helping to do this, in other words imposing a burden of 100 million on business. kr., so we also need to clarify something more. Then I would also like to point out that we think that this practice of first paying chocolate tax and then having to refund part of it seems awkward. We would like to abolish the chocolate levy, because it is one of the heavy excise duties, and I believe that it has a 100-year anniversary either this year or next year, and there could be a good opportunity to abolish it, given that we have such a great room for manoeuvre as we have in the economy; so we could consider whether it could be abolished. That would be the simple solution. But if you do not want to, the question is whether there can be a more flexible model than if you first have to pay a tax, and then you have to submit schedules and get some of it refunded afterwards. It seems very, very bureaucratic and a patchy solution to something that is actually a rather bad system. So I would like to hear from the Minister if there are other options. It may be that there is not, but I would like to have it considered and clarify whether extra costs are incurred in connection with section 4.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145020	No one has asked to speak, so thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145029	Thank you for the floor. To be able to support aid organisations that do something good for vulnerable people is a very good thing, so it is good to be able to refund excise duties on chocolate, sugar and Christmas aid packages for the benefit of those at risk, which would mean that you might be able to help even more, because we know that there are many who need help. The closure of travel agencies' abuse of tax holes is good for our sense of justice, and it is good for our economy, for the 20 million. kr., which one might be able to get in there, could be used in other ways. So, overall, there are many good threads in this in terms of supporting confidence in a fair tax system and in terms of helping the vulnerable we have in our society. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145135	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145141	Thank you, President. We have a huge task ahead of us. We need to simplify this tax system, both because it will benefit citizens directly, because it will benefit business and because it will benefit the Treasury. The system must be simpler and it must be cheaper to manage. It sounds very simple, but then we don't have to implement laws like this, because some of it does exactly the opposite. I recognise that there are positive things in it too; it is a very comprehensive legislative proposal, so there are both good and bad things. But we fail to make it simple. The best example is precisely the excise duty on chocolate for humanitarian organizations, where you will now, perhaps quite well, take them off the charges under these intricate conditions: then it will have to be over 10,000 kr., then it will have to be served in one place, and then you cannot use it elsewhere. People simply have to sit around and manage these things in these associations and keep an eye on who a package of chocolate has been given to and whether they might have gotten it or not. And then the question is, can it be on this form? We know that when you have to fill out a form at one end, there are also some at the other end looking at this form. And it is the state that will then have to decide whether these chocolates that the associations have been given have been used for the right thing. And can we even keep track of it? It's so glaring in this case that the less revenue that the state thinks they're getting into it is 1 million. kr., but it costs 1.5 million. kr. to administer. 1.5 million kr. It costs extra bureaucracy to manage that you want to remove the excise duty on chocolate. It screams to heaven. Can you say that? I'm not calling on heaven, sir. President. But it screams to heaven it does. When it comes to the VAT part, things get really bad. This proposal cannot even explain what the proceeds will be, whether there will be more or less revenue for the state on the VAT part. And I have to make it clear that I will not be voting in favour of any legislative proposal in which I cannot announce what you expect the proceeds to be, whether it will be more or less. It's just not gonna work. In addition, we can take business, which, with the changes here, expects that there will be administrative consequences for business for 4 million. kr. extra. It simply doesn't work if we want to make it cheaper to be a Dane, and not if we want to make it simpler to have a tax administration. So we are looking forward to the committee reading, but as it stands right now, we are at least critical of large parts of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145430	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it was just inside the frame. At least that was within the speaking time, and that's what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh to be an expert on. So here's the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145446	We support the wish that humanitarian organisations may be exempted from these charges to some extent. We would like there to be no chocolate tax law because it is a hassle, it is outdated and it is by no means fair or just. As other parties have mentioned, we are also concerned about the costs and the trouble that might be imposed on business, and this is something that we would like to look at carefully in committee before we can say clearly whether we can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145534	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010145543	Thank you for that, President. May I not start by saying that the part of the legislative proposal on the reimbursement of certain excise duties to approved humanitarian organisations, as the text says, is actually part of a legislative proposal originating from the previous government, which is why I hope that the positive reception that this part of the legislative proposal has at least been given by the humanitarian organisations will still find the support of the parties of the previous government when we come to committee, and this is the case here in the case of the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives. So it's just to say, in parentheses, that this is something that you yourself have helped to do, and that I therefore hope that you still back it up. One can say that the positive atmosphere about it in the organizational world is very, very great, so I certainly hope you will support that. Then you can say, if you look at the bill as such, that it is clear that it is a complicated legislative proposal and, of course, first of all thanks for receiving it. There is no doubt that the legislative proposals in the field of taxation are often packed with several elements, which can also be independent of each other, and this is a complex matter, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has repeatedly been allowed to stress today. What is the point of this, however, is that they all contribute to fair rules in the area of VAT and taxation and ensure that the Danish rules can be in accordance with EU law. As I have said, some of the elements will, I hope, still awaken the joy of recognition, as they have been put forward before the parliamentary elections, but thus fell away because of the discharge of the elections. As I have said, this is about the refund of excise duties on surplus food, which is and has been a great desire of the collecting organisations, and then there is something else that will be recognised, namely the implementation of the amendment to the VAT directive, which simplifies and clarifies a number of rules relating to EU trade, which has been a wish of industry. Other elements are new and include: amendments to the VAT Act. These amendments aim to bring the VAT rules into line with the EU VAT rules and to ensure that tax is levied on a reasonable basis for goods purchased in the company liable for VAT, i.e. when they reach, for example, the Member States. taken home for private use. As I have said, the draft law contains, firstly, a proposal that certain organizations and associations should be able to recover taxes on chocolate, coffee and ice when the goods are distributed free of charge, for example. in connection with the distribution of Christmas aid or for use in shelters. This should give companies a greater incentive to donate or also sell these product types cheaply to the organisations instead of discarding the goods. The government, together with the circle behind the so-called understanding paper, has laid great stress on the fact that we want to step up our efforts to combat food waste, as the SF rapporteur also mentioned, and it has to be said that this proposal is popularly said to be spot on. As I said, this should give companies a greater incentive to donate or sell these product types cheaply to organisations rather than discard them. At the same time, when the tax is reimbursed, the organisations will then indirectly receive more funding for their humanitarian work, and that is another important point about this bill. I am, of course, pleased that the proposal makes both an effort to reduce food waste and that, at the same time, it takes account of the organisations that help those who need it. Secondly, the proposal contains a proposal to implement amendments to the VAT Directive which both simplify and clarify the rules in the field of VAT. It facilitates the administrative burden on companies and also increases legal certainty in cross-border trade in goods. These rules are, and have also been, sought by the business community, and at the same time I am pleased that the proposal makes it more difficult for those who try to circumvent the VAT rules. The proposal then requires that the buyer always disclose his VAT number to the seller in order for the seller to be able to sell VAT-free to buyers across EU borders. Thirdly, it is proposed to amend the set-aside rules in the area of VAT. The proposal amends the basis for the calculation of VAT on the procurement of goods, assets or capital goods. The removal must then ensure that an entity that takes a good, asset or investment asset out of the entity to use it for a purpose other than that originally intended will now receive a different tax on it. When that happens, as I said, there must be taxation, and the rules in the proposal therefore refer to the value and the way in which this taxation is to take place in the future. As far as the removal of goods is concerned, the VAT base will in future be more in line with the real value of the goods at the time of collection, which will give a much more accurate tax base than before, since today VAT is payable on the purchase price or the manufacturing price. importance for enterprises that donate goods to charitable organisations. Following the bill, VAT will only have to be paid on the residual value of the goods, which, as I said, increases the incentive for a donation, as a small amount of VAT will have to be paid here. Finally, the draft law, which has also been promoted, contains a safeguard clause concerning travel agencies. Unfortunately, the tax administration has been able to see that the current rules are being abused, thus minimising the payment of VAT by travel agents. It is by no means in order that companies try to construct themselves out of it and pay lower taxes and charges. That is why I am very pleased that we are now able to stem this so that travel agencies cannot make smart solutions to get rid of VAT cheaper, and this is at the same time helping to combat unequal competition between travel agencies using the model and those who do not use the model. So, with these introductory remarks, I would like to thank you for a good and constructive discussion of the draft law. This is certainly a legislative proposal to which we will return. This is a complex matter, and I am happy to admit it, and the questions that have been asked here afterwards can of course also be explained in a technical way. SF asked a question about the background to the adjustment of the set-aside rule, and I would, of course, be happy to explain this in the committee's work. Then the SF's rapporteur also asks about the problem of cocoa milk, which is plant-based. I can say that yesterday I received 10 litres, I think, of plant-based cocoa milk; I think it was a gift that I have actually answered very positively the questions put by the SF rapporteur in the Danish Parliament in relation to the fact that this is something we would like to look at, and we may be able to go into this in depth in the committee's work. I would say that I have not managed to distribute all the 10 litres yet, so if the SF's rapporteur comes by at some point, there is a litre of plant-based cocoa milk that we can enjoy together. We have been talking about food waste, and I believe that this is something to which we will return, at least in the circle of understanding. This is a huge problem, and the figures mentioned here by the SF's rapporteur simply point to what a problem it is basically, and if, as we do here, we can, with relatively flexible gripes, although it must of course be recorded in order to avoid cheating and scams, as well as minimize food waste, but also make everyday life a little easier for those who want to help others, then I think it's a perfect way to think these things together. Then there were a few other questions, including from the Conservatives. We will return to DI's comment, and I would very much like to reply to that in committee; and the discussion on charitable organisations was also something that raised questions with the New Civil and Liberal Alliance. I certainly hope, as I said, that the answers that I have given here, but which can also be repeated in committee, will mean that the Liberal Alliance still stands by what was thought when it was in government, when the green buttons have to be printed on the third reading that comes from this proposal. However, I hope for a good discussion in committee. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150457	I have to say that no matter how generous the Minister will hand out cocoa, the indictment you and you, like you, are not allowed in the Assembly Chamber, and we in the Bureau have been asked to inculcate it, so it is done. Well, then I'll give Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov the word for a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150519	Of course, I think it is amazing that SF is so interested in plant-based cocoa milk and that the Minister would like to offer some plant-based cocoa milk to SF. We know it's cheap for sale, so it can be a good way to get support for a bill. But I am more interested in buses and VAT legislation. I am a little worried that Danish Industry is saying that it might cost 100 million. kr. with the amendment that comes from the VAT law, and I must admit that I do not quite understand what that amendment is actually about. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister to explain the bill on that point. So, there are some buses used for VAT-coated activities, there are other buses used for activities that are exempt from VAT and in the situation where they take out some of their buses, how are they affected by this change of law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150621	It is true that this question has been questioned in the comments in the hearings which have been made, but the short story is that when it comes to the cost of buses, and that is what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov asks about this, the proposal has been adjusted, as is also shown in the consultation answers, so that it should not have significant costs for the buses. However, this presupposes that the buses are not taken to 100 per cent. VAT-free activity, which means that, in addition to the VAT-free passenger transport, they have, for example, VAT-free advertising revenue. That is the answer to that. It sounds a little complicated, of course, but it will be something we could easily develop in a response in committee. However, the objection on this subject has been listened to, and the proposal should also be adjusted so that it does not have the consequences that are pointed out in the consultations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150715	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Rasmus Jarlov the word?
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150718	Yeah. I read in the comments that Dansk PersonTransport, who has also submitted a hearing answer, is invited by the Danish Treasury to submit more detailed information on the issue they raise and which is the same as the Danish Industry raises. I would therefore like to know whether we can get a more detailed answer on this and a cost estimate. Because I would also like them to have the opportunity to respond to what the Ministry has written, because it is a relatively large subject if there is a cost of perhaps 100 million. We would very much like to be sure that otherwise we cannot support the bill, and even if it is something that the previous government, which was of course infallible, has put forward. So we will nevertheless reserve the right to listen carefully to the answers that come in and adjust it to what we think should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150822	Let us take it in committee. It is very technical, but, as I said, we have adjusted the legislative proposal so that it does not have to reach the level of costs that is being pointed out here. But the prerequisite for that is that they are not taken to 100 per cent. VAT-free activity, which means that, in addition to this VAT-free passenger transport, they also have VAT-free advertising revenue. That is the reason for it. But let us try to drill it into committee work. I am quite sure that we can easily find a common answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150855	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150856	I would like to stress that I absolutely do not see the previous government as infallible. On the contrary. There's plenty to come after there. But now for this proposal, and I would like to ask the Minister something a little the same. For the Minister's general view that a bill is being tabled here containing parts which do not indicate a revenue estimate is that there is simply no data basis for making a revenue estimate. At the same time, we hear that there are large amounts of money running around, and that worries me. So I would like to ask whether we can get confirmation from the Minister in committee that we are going to look at this so that we might get closer to actually making a profit estimate when we now have to deal with the second and third readings of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150937-2	We are responding to all the questions we have in committee, and that also applies to the questions that are raised here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010150945	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191010151002	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 11 October 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
