ParlaMint-DK_20190503100011	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 233 (Proposal for a law amending the law on equations and the law on exchange gains). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment has presented a report on day-care standards. 13). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503100042	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 7 May 2019. First of all, we need a explanatory statement from the rapporteur on the questioners. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503100133	Welcome to the energy policy debate. I am glad that some of our colleagues will show up later, because then there will be a more divergent gender balance than there is right now, but welcome to those colleagues who are with us from the beginning. Fortunately, however, there are also talented female colleagues on the rapporteur's ranks. On behalf of the authors, I would like to thank the Minister for standing today for the annual energy policy statement. We look forward to having a discussion on what we all consider to be extremely important. Although a lot of people outside the walls are talking more about campaigning, it is important to keep energy policy on track and I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503100216	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503100235	Thank you for that, President. I'm sorry if I'm going to blow my nose along the way because I've been hit by a little flu. I welcome this opportunity to discuss Energy Policy Statement 2019 with the Danish Parliament. Such a review of the year that went on in Denmark's energy policy is a good opportunity to take stock. And the verdict is clear: Denmark is and remains a global green pioneering country. For decades, Denmark has delivered impressive results, and we have built up a wide range of green strength positions. This was once again recognised in 2018 when the Danish energy system was voted the world's best in the third year. But we're not resting on the laurels. We must continue to set ambitious targets for the green transition in Denmark, so that the players in the world will also look forward to Denmark for tomorrow's smart green solutions. And we are well on our way, it must be said. It is impressive how fast the green transition is; we keep setting new records as a country. The Energy Agreement of summer 2018 only contributes to this continued high pace. With the energy agreement, we have set an ambitious goal that Denmark should be climate neutral by 2050, and we have set the road to 55%. VE in 2030. The government also works for an EU target on net zero emissions before 2050 and for a new European Commission that has Danish priorities on the agenda. In this way, Denmark takes the lead in the global and European efforts to live up to the Paris Agreement. Denmark's green brand has resonated in the world, and we must continue to work hard to ensure a continued high pace in the green transition so that we can strengthen our leadership position. The government is determined to do so. Therefore, it is also important that we stick to the good Danish tradition of energy with broad political reconciliation and long time perspectives. It creates stability and ensures investment so that we can continue to be at the forefront. In 2018, we made not only the widest but also the greenest energy agreement in Danish history, and I am both happy and proud of that. The Energy Agreement marks a shift in energy policy, for which the government will continue to work to remain the driving force in the green transformation of our energy system. And we're already well on our way. We break records over and over again. With the latest Technology-neutral offer of wind and solar 2018-2019, we have achieved an average support price of only 2.27 øre per year. kWh. It's six times lower than it used to be. And in March this year the news rolled out on the national media about a new non-supported wind turbine project at Hirtshals Harbour. I have great respect and confidence in the many Danish companies and employees who each day contribute to the green transition. So when I am asked what I think we can expect from the future in the energy field, I think we can continue this impressive journey towards climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. However, I would like to round something other than just the domestic policy, namely the international energy policy. The Danish energy policy cannot be seen in isolation. We need to move globally. And here, too, Denmark takes the lead. Fortunately, the green transition in 2018 continued to cement its importance on the international stage, just as it has done at home. At COP24 in Katowice, the 196 parties to the United Nations Climate Convention agreed on virtually all parts of the regulatory framework to help meet the ambitions of the 2015 Paris Agreement. Overall, this is a very satisfactory result, but a higher pace of green conversion is needed if we are to achieve the Paris objectives. Denmark stands for a fraction of global CO2 Therefore, we enter into partnerships in the energy sector with several of the major emerging economies such as China, Indonesia and India, so that we can share our experiences. Most recently, the UN Secretary-General has asked Denmark to take on a leading role towards the climate summit in New York in September. Together with Ethiopia and SEforALL, we must lead the energy trail at the summit in order to increase the global level of ambition. It's a commitment. To strengthen Denmark's green voice in the world, the government has appointed Ditlev Engel as Denmark's special envoy for climate and energy until the end of 2018. And the Energy Agreement also agreed that there should be a significant increase in export promotion efforts in the energy sector. In this way we help Danish green technology to find their way to export markets where they can accelerate the green transition. Overall, 2018 has therefore strengthened the foundation that Denmark will continue to be an important driving force behind the global green transition. In the European Union too, the green transformation of our energy system has long been a focus on the energy policy agenda. That focus has been cemented in 2018. At the end of 2018, the Council and the European Parliament concluded agreements on the last eight proposals in the so-called winter package, which is a key part of the implementation of the Energy Union. The Energy Union shall provide the framework for the most key initiatives relating to European climate and energy policy in the period from 2015 to 2019. But the EU also has a longer-term focus. In November 2018, the European Commission presented a proposal for the EU's long-term low-mission strategy, which will form the basis for future discussions on the EU's climate and energy policy. The government has identified a number of concrete priorities for the EU's long-term climate action to help the EU take the lead in global efforts to achieve net zero emissions through cost-effective interventions. In the field of energy, the government will work for five areas, including the promotion of electrification across the energy, heat, transport and industrial sectors, the promotion of the implementation and further development of an internal energy market, an increased focus on energy efficiency, the contribution of the gas sector to development towards an energy system fully based on renewable energy and an ambitious target of net zero emissions by 2050. On the domestic track, the energy agreement sets the course for Denmark's green transition in the coming years. The energy agreement includes, among other things: decided on Denmark's next offshore wind farm, Thor, which will cover 800,000 households' electricity consumption. And we must have at least two more parks in place, and this must be done in this area in the years to come. Our energy production is constantly becoming greener and greener. The electricity production from renewable energy is estimated to go from today to cover approx. 64 per cent. of the total electricity consumption to exceed the expected electricity consumption by 2030. In 2018, the government also made the decision to stop the exploration and extraction of oil and gas on land and in inland Danish waters. It is a historic step in the right direction for Denmark as an energy policy pioneer. In addition, Denmark, together with a number of countries, has joined the initiative to phase out coal from the electricity supply by 2030. However, the green transition is not just about developing renewable energy. We must be even better at making efficient use of green energy. With the energy agreement, therefore, we also have a new approach to energy efficiency in Denmark. We are showing the outside world the wise energy efficiency policy of a country that has a high VE index, and we do so, among other things. by balancing RE and energy efficiency improvement and by targeting businesses to the greatest potentials. The energy agreement cut off, among other things. the energy savings efforts of the energy companies, and we have set aside a new pool for buildings and a new supply pool for business. It is a significant battle with our previous support system and a model that I am sure will be much more effective. In terms of efficient use of energy, this also applies to our district heating. That is why we need a new approach to heat production. We have taken the first steps towards abolishing production bonds for the smaller district heating areas, and we are looking at when and how this can be done wider. We have also halved the electric heating tax and made it cheaper to use, among other things. heat pumps. To this end, we are looking at the future role of our gas system. It is important that we integrate green gases into our energy systems and achieve optimum use of renewable energy. Therefore, a gas strategy must be developed with a wise line for the role of gas in the future green energy system. At the same time as our high ambitions, we must continue to use the Danish oil and gas resources in the North Sea for the greatest possible benefit to Danish society. We will concentrate on efforts in the North Sea and the restoration of the Tyra field. It is common sense to exploit the gas resources, and it creates prosperity, prosperity. Danish jobs help finance the green conversion. In order for everything to be coherent, it is important to ensure continued efficiency in the supply sectors and to maintain world-class security of supply. Pr. On 1 January, the government has concluded political agreements in line with the supply strategy to support efficiency improvements for a total of 5.5 billion. kr. in 2025 out of the overall government objective of improving efficiency for 5.9 billion. kr. in 2025. The efficiency will help to increase the availability of the ordinary Danish family, but also ensure the development and future assurance of the supply sector. The large amounts of wind and solar in the energy system make greater demands on energy supply. We must maintain world-class security of supply, and here we must crack the code for an integrated and flexible energy system. From day one, this government has said that we will work to create the most integrated market-based and flexible energy system in Europe, and we, together with all the parties in the Folketing, have reiterated that ambition in the Energy Agreement. The development of a gas strategy must also reduce the future of the gas with an electricity system where, due to increasing amounts of fluctuating currents in the energy system, storage and conversion will be needed. The gas strategy therefore focuses on how the Danish gas infrastructure can continue to be commercially exploited in the green transition. We must make it green, but we must also do it wisely. The energy policy of the future is market-based, and we must therefore continue on the path we have taken with the energy agreement. The expansion of renewable energy, and especially sea wind, is the cornerstone of the energy agreement. There is a huge potential for sea winds in Denmark, which we must exploit and perhaps even make money on. We have just published a large-scale screening of possible offshore wind locations in Denmark, which shows that there are good locations up to 12,400 MW of offshore wind that can deliver more power than is currently being used in Denmark. It is therefore important to set up our infrastructure and rules so that we have the most optimal framework for continuing ambitious and appropriate development. Increasing quantities of green energy require a real internal market in which the flow can flow freely, and an integrated and flexible energy system in which we take advantage of opportunities such as: data and digitalisation contain. Digitisation is the tool that really has to bind an energy system based on renewable energy together, and this requires that we continue to think in new energy policy terms. That is why we have set aside considerably more funding for research and development, so that, as leading technology nation, we can be at the forefront of tomorrow's green solutions. We can do a lot ourselves, but without the European Union we cannot do it. Solutions in the energy sector and ensuring an integrated and flexible energy system must increasingly be found in the European Union and through international cooperation. This is an essential condition for achieving our goals and making an important contribution to the UN's global goals and the EU's 2030 targets. Equally important is that we ensure and strengthen cross-border cooperation, just as important is that we here in the Danish Parliament also uphold the good Danish tradition in the field of energy with good and wide cooperation. I think that the broad energy reconciliation from 2018, which all parties in the Folketing are behind, is a good example of the co-operative popular government. Only by moving in the same direction can we help to strengthen the green transition for the benefit of the whole of society. We must constantly raise the bar and be ambitious. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101716	Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101721	Thank you. Now there is some reference to the energy agreement, where the government's proposal was that one offshore wind farm should be built towards 2030, and then there was a negotiation process that ended up with three offshore wind farms being included in the agreement, and it became a better agreement, and it is planned that you can build on that energy agreement if you find it possible. It may be in a future Finance Act, and it may be by making a follow-up in the form of a climate agreement. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection that the Climate Council has now come up with a report that relates to the data centres that are planned and that if we are to achieve this objective of 55%. renewable energy from energy consumption by 2030, then it is necessary to build two new, large offshore wind farms by 2030, just like to stick to that goal because the large, energy-using data centres use so much. How does the Minister intend to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101828	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101830	Thank you for the question. The data centres are both an opportunity and an opportunity and also a challenge for us. I am certainly not opposed to the need for further expansion of offshore winds towards 2030. In the dialogue I have had with the owners of the data centres, I have clearly indicated to them that if you want to place yourself in Denmark, you also have a responsibility to manage the amount of green power that you receive at the individual centre, and also to be able and should invest in renewable energy expansion, and I also know that several of the centres are focused on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101909	Thank you. Here at first there is only one brief comment to be made on the rapporteurs. The next one is sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503101917	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the statement. Although we agree in many ways on energy policy that there are things moving in the right direction, it is also a little regrettable that, speaking of records, it happened that last year we saw an increase in CO2 then there was an increase, and in this respect the minister's only explanation was that it was not problematic that there had been a year when there had been very little wind. I think that one should have been so well apart from the decimal and the development one had had that it had not been a problem, but I have then asked the Minister a question where I have written: how much does the wind really mean, so how can one make an inventory so that one can correct for how much wind there has been in the various years? There the Minister writes back to me that it is unfortunately not possible to reply to this within the time limit for replying. That is why I would like to hear how the Minister can say in the press that it is because of the fluctuations in wind production that we do not wish to confirm to the Folketing that it is actually and the warm summer of last year that it has done so. So what will the Minister do about the fact that we have seen increases in CO2 for the first time in many years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102038	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. I'm gonna push for Mr. Keen's help. Jens Joel gets that answer as soon as possible. When I answer questions, I answer to the best of my knowledge at the time. And it is clear that the very, very warm summer meant that there were long periods when the windmills stood still and there was a need for imports of electricity to ensure security of supply. It is clear that when we import electricity, there is a possibility that the electricity we import is not necessarily based on renewable green energy. It was not a part of it, and this meant, for each year, that there was an increase in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102119	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102123	Thank you. After all, oil and gas production in the North Sea is one of our main concerns in the alternative. We're not doing this because we've got ourselves a cool idea, that's because science says we should charge 80%. of our well-known reserves remain underground if we are to be able to live up to the Paris Agreement. So we want to draw up a resolution plan, and there has been little enthusiasm for this in this Chamber. But there are some misunderstandings. I have heard the Minister say that we can just as well pull our own oil out of the underground as long as we need oil and it is better than importing it from oil states in the Middle East. But does the Minister recognise that most energy is actually traded internationally? The Danish production and consumption of oil are not in fact linked. For many years, when Denmark has had net exports of oil, we have continued to import oil and there is no correlation between Danish oil production and the gasoline we pour in our cars. Today we export more than half of the oil from the North Sea. On the other hand, we import 6 million. m3 crude oil per year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102233	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102234	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. That is quite correct. It is the case that oil and gas, not least oil and petrol, are traded across and on a world market. I am therefore very pleased that Denmark has been able to be self-sufficient in oil and gas for a long, long time. I think this is very, very welcome, just as I am also pleased that when you compare the environmental impact of oil and gas production in the countries, you can only see that Denmark is quite, very, very top on what CO 2 barrels of oil are picked up from the North Sea. I'm glad. That is why I think it makes sense for us to continue our oil and gas production more than we necessarily do elsewhere where the burden is far, far greater. In addition, there is also the fact that over a number of years oil and gas have contributed significantly to the Danish economy with somewhere between 400 and 500 billion. kr. to the Danish Treasury, and as a member of a government which is also concerned with the linking of the economy, it is, of course, a significant contribution to Danish economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102339	Thank you. Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102342	In Radicals we are very concerned about having a vision that can lead us in a new direction, and that is why we think we should have a great vision for the North Sea, not in terms of oil and gas, but in terms of wind, in other words how many wind turbines we can build in the North Sea, so that we can actually close Europe's coal power stations so that we can get it into the electric cars and make the new green energy become a major commodity for us. We have now screened with the government for 12 GW, but does the Minister not think that it could be up to perhaps four times or five times in the North Sea, and should we not try to look at it as our main priority for the North Sea, that it is wind turbines that are going out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102424	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102425	Thank you for the question. I see this as very, very constructive. I am not really opposed to that. In addition to what we have screened by Denmark's immediate sea areas, there is a large area in the North Sea. The focus is on that. We have partnered with between 10 and 12 EU countries to look at what opportunities there are, and I also see that from other countries, especially North European countries, there is an interest in establishing sea winds in the North Sea too. After all, these are countries that may have challenges in ensuring adequate land development. I am very, very positive about that. Last year we held the presidency of North Sea Cooperation. This is something that is being worked on, as with the establishment of this island, in which I also think there are great prospects, because it will solve some other challenges with regard to the loading of electricity and the challenges there, with supply lines and where they need to be drawn, etc. There are good opportunities for that, and I would like to work for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102530	Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the debate, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, and now there are the general conditions for short remarks, i.e. two for each. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503102550	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the presentation of our energy policy position right now. I hope, of course, that we can start discussing a little quickly how we can expand our vision, how we can raise our ambitions for the coming years. Because when you look outside these thick walls, it is clear that there is a great demand and a great need for us to move faster on the green transition. That's why school pupils and students and other grandparents are also there who have organized themselves now • stand down here in front of Christiansborg on Thursdays and climate reminds us. They sometimes take time off from school on Fridays to show that this is something we need to take seriously, and when they demonstrate, they tell the story that with what we have decided at this stage, we are not ambitious enough to reach the goal and deliver on the international agreements.Of course, the Paris Agreement and our promise to keep global warming down to 2 degrees or rather 1.5 degrees increase. So we are far from achieving our goal, and although there are some things in this period - and I shall return to this - which we have had drawn in the right direction, unfortunately it is also the situation that the government we have now has had too few objectives and that some of the objectives we have had have been scrapped. When the government entered the government offices and the climate targets were scrapped, attempts were made to cancel offshore wind farms already planned, or the energy research funds were halved, it is clear that it has set us back. That is also the reason why the Climate Council, both before and after changing the President, has actually said that the green transition is going too slowly. There is not enough speed, there is no ambition to spread the effort to all sectors, and that is what needs to be done. In the energy settlement, we certainly took some steps. We took some steps around electrification of district heating: How do we use the green power in district heating? I thought that was wise and good, and we also got even more focus on the solar and wind energy expansion, and prices are rattling down. In fact, it is now the case that it is cheaper to establish green energy than to set up coal power stations or nuclear power stations, and in that situation one would think that the door had been kicked into that it would go on its own. But that is not the case, of course, and that is why we need to spend some of the money that we do not need to spend on supporting solar and wind energy, because fortunately it will be cheaper to invest massively in research, so that we can save the wind power for the days when the wind does not blow, but also to secure the grid and the flexible integration of the network, which is the prerequisite if we are actually to deliver. My colleague Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned before that there will be data centres and that we also need to turn up the production of renewable energy if we are not to be beaten by the stick and lose our objectives because we get data centres here that want to use our green power. That is why one might well ask in concrete terms whether the government will be involved, as the opposition parties have proposed, not just the one wind farm proposed by the government in the energy conciliation proposal, not just the three wind farms that we agreed upon when we had sat in the negotiating rooms and got the government on board, but even more wind farms by 2030. Because that's actually what we need. You could also ask the government if we could do a little better than, for example, the EUDP, which is one of the stories about the lost years. Now I read here in the statement that in 2019 we are up to 435 million. kr. in the EUDP, which is essentially our focus on energy research now, and one can write that is an increase from last year, because it is. The problem is that four years ago, when the government entered the government offices, we spent over 800 million. kr. In the field of energy research, therefore, it is not a priority that we now have 435 million. kr. in an EUDP programme. Similarly, we may have to look at the energy efficiency improvement effort with social democratic spectacles. The effort that we are making for energy efficiency improvements in our buildings, the fact that we have to save energy, is something we have to do, because it is good for the climate, but also because it actually makes the green transition cheaper in the long term if we save energy. It was a pity that in the government's proposal for an energy settlement there was no effort for buildings and energy savings. We got a pool in after the negotiations, but that's not enough at all. In fact, it is inadequate to a degree, so business tips have been out to say that we are in the process of putting Denmark's leading position at risk in this area. Unfortunately, in the recent climate action by the government, there was nothing about energy efficiency improvements either, and we simply believe that we need to address this, both so that we really deliver energy efficiency improvements in relation to the European Union's requirements, but also so that we take the lead. Because it is an independent point for us that if we are to benefit the climate as much as possible and if we are to have the cheapest possible change, we should not let go of the least possible effort in relation to EU requirements, but rather we should be on the front line. With regard to the climate, which we will probably also be discussing, it is of course also a pity about the enlargement in the energy policy statement we have had today, which could also have been included in a binding climate law, which could have been held on Tuesday of this week, when we actually had a citizen's proposal on the agenda to be voted on. Almost 70,000 Danes have signed that we should have a binding climate bill, and it has unfortunately been blocked that we had that vote, by the government parties and the Danish People's Party, and we of course regret that. But we are pleased that there is something that we have been able to work together on in the field of energy. We are also very hopeful that we can work together in the area of climate change, but it is also clear that the ambitions must be higher and that the answers must be better than what we are seeing today. Then, on behalf of the parties Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternative, Radical Left and SF, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption, and this is what it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament regrets that the government's climate and energy policy is not ambitious enough. Neither the world nor Denmark is on track to meet the Paris Agreement's objectives of a maximum temperature increase of 2 degrees and as close to 1.5 degrees as possible, and the Climate Council has pointed out that government policy is slowing down the pace of the green transition to a quarter of the next decade. The Danish Parliament regrets that the government has prevented a vote in the Danish Parliament on a new Climate Act, as well as that the Danish Parliament wants a more ambitious climate and energy effort than the current government is doing, including the adoption of a reinforced Climate Act, the construction of more offshore wind farms by 2030 than agreed in the energy settlement, and the increase in energy efficiency efforts. In addition, the Danish Parliament wishes to implement concrete measures reducing CO2 V 91).
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103319	Thank you. I would just like to say that the proposal for adoption is part of the further discussions. Then there are some brief comments. Sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103331	Thank you, President. One of the important points in the energy agreement, which all the Danish Parliament's parties concluded last summer, is precisely that more is being invested in offshore winds, and that limits are set on how many wind turbines there must be in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very good, so that the windmills are as far out at sea as possible, so that no one can feel bothered by them. A place in the country where people feel bothered by wind turbines or at least think they are going to, is along the West Coast, where there are plans to create two coastal offshore wind farms, namely Vesterhav North and Vesterhav South. It is parks that the Danish People's Party believes are misplaced. I note that the Social Democrats do not seem to think they are misplaced. Can the rapporteur not confirm to me that when the Danish People's Party, a couple of years ago, probably backed by a few other civil parties, proposed to move Vesterhav Nord and Vesterhav South further into the sea, the Social Democratic Party was against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103434	When some parties proposed to open the energy settlement a few years ago, you could say, and change the agreements we had made back in 2012, it was at a time when we had, in a way, expected that we would get more green power from the parks that were planned, but it was also at a time when investors had spent a tens of millions of dollars to actually prepare these parks. That is why we said to those parties that wanted to open up the energy conciliation and create uncertainty about this, that of course we have to stick to both our green ambitions, but also the confidence that when you invest in Denmark, you can count on investment being, if I may say so, honored and that we also stand by our words. It is clear that when we agreed those parks, we asked around the country where they would like to be placed. That is what they said, for example. in Ringkøbing-Skjern and other municipalities: We want them here with us. The seats that were then offered around the country were, after all, only those places where they had wanted to locate the parks locally. We have not, in fact, dealt with whether they were best there or whether they would be better somewhere else. They have dealt with this locally and have said: we want the establishment here. Then we asked where to get the most renewable energy for the money. It was an offer that decided where it was cheapest and where there were the best wind conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103555	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103557	No matter what, sir. Jens Joel says today, and regardless of what a former municipal council in Ringkøbing-Skjern has resigned, we have to note that there is a great popular opposition to the North Sea and the West Sea South. - Sir... Jens Joel confirm that the Social Democratic Party insists that these coastal offshore wind farms be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103620	Of course, I have also noted that there is opposition from citizens in that area. There are also citizens, companies and politicians for that matter who think it is a good investment. What I am talking about is that it was asked for when it came, and when there were some parties that proposed to turn down our green ambitions and, moreover, create uncertainty for companies that had invested a two-digit amount of money, the Social Democratic Party said, of course, that we can neither do that for the sake of climate nor for the sake of those companies. We've held on to that. If we then stick to it now, then I am relying on the Minister to do the same, because when we are asked whether we can move those parks, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate does not say that we can do that either. And that is very natural, because you are so far in the process that you would have to pay compensation if you started changing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103714	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103719	I am pleased that the rapporteur put so much emphasis on energy savings, because that is something that I think is too little in the energy agreement. After all, we are faced with a more intelligent energy system in which energy savings also have to be implemented in a smarter way than perhaps has been done so far. After all, we have some experience from the energy-saving scheme that has been running over a number of years, and there is probably a need to change it. I can see that, fortunately, we have also given priority to this in our joint proposal for adoption in today's debate, and of course I hope that the whole parliament will support that. Only one proposal for adoption has so far been submitted. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether we could unfold a little, what we need to do better to deal with energy savings in the future. What is it like to ensure that there is a public commitment to saving energy? Because I have such a little feeling that someone is saying that you just have to use the power loose, because now it's all renewable energy. How can we come to the conclusion that we once again have support to work with energy savings targeted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103828	There's a lot of elements in this. It's quite obvious, as sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen also says that the previous scheme ran into some problems. There was simply too bad, what can be said, value for the money that was invested. There have been cases of actual fraud and fraud. And it can be said that this means, of course, that we, as responsible politicians, must say: we are changing that system. Unfortunately, it has also meant that some people have the impression that it has been used as an excuse to say that we can change that and that the energy saving thing no longer needs to be done. It is clear that this is, of course, about creating a new system that will be better than the old one, but perhaps it is also about tackling some of the other things we can do to save energy. In other words, the Social Democrats, for example, will be able to achieve this. If we propose that the demand to save energy in public buildings should be extended not only to the buildings of the State but also to the buildings of the municipalities and regions, we can say that this is a scheme, which has little to do with the aid scheme that was the one in the previous energy saving scheme, but which will still lead to the promotion of some of the energy saving markets. So that's one of the ways to do it. We have also said that we would like to have a target that is higher than the minimum requirements that the European Union has set for us, simply because it is a position of strength and, moreover, is wise if we are to keep the price down on the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103946	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503103948	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur mentioned the municipalities as an actor in this • what to say work on energy saving, because there is no doubt that there is a maintenance delay in some municipalities on municipal buildings. There is a need for better ventilation, which can be thought of in conjunction with energy savings. So I would really like to know whether the rapporteur can see any possibility that we will give the municipalities a better framework, so that investments in energy optimisation are not part of what counts in the plant ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104017	After all, we have opened the discussion a little in the energy conciliation by creating a special loan pool. When we make demands on the municipalities, we can say, and say, that they must now also save energy in their buildings, there will of course also be a discussion about how the municipalities can finance it and what it means for their other activities. There we are, in fact, open to discussing the solution that could give the municipalities some degree of freedom to actually meet the objectives we set in here. What matters is that you get started everywhere. Fortunately, a great many municipalities are doing so in advance, but it is clear that if we are going to go in the direction of this conversion, we must have all the municipalities on the wagon. This may mean that we also need to look at the framework for local authorities to invest in energy saving measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104108	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104111	Thank you. I need to hear something about the production of oil and gas in the North Sea. Because we often hear in the debate that our welfare depends on the oil money. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the North Sea is the gold mine that is often heard. The officially expected revenue has been estimated at 4-6 billion. kr. a year. However, in 2016, taxes on oil and gas amounted to only 0.2 per cent. of the total Danish tax revenue. That's 1.5 billion. kr. in North Sea revenue from hydrocarbon tax and corporation tax. In 2017, they rose so little again due to an increase in oil prices etc., but these are very uncertain figures. I know that the Social Democrats agreed to this North Sea agreement to extend the extraction of oil and gas until almost 2050. Does the rapporteur and the Social Democrats not see at all that we have to cut this because science says that we have to let 80%. of the known reserves stay underground?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104226	On the part of the Social Democrats, we have the clear view that if we are to do something effective to influence the world market, in other words, if we are to do something seriously to live up to the Paris Agreement, we have to limit world market demand. It is one thing about which one can say that we are willing to go extremely far in ensuring that there are no customers to buy the oil and gas that is being offered on the world market. But it doesn't really matter if we in Denmark remove our production, not at all, because our production in Denmark also includes. is used to invest in the green transition. That's why we say it, instead of making someone you could say empty manifestation. We have just had a debate here, and it came out that if we moved the production we have today in the Danish part of the North Sea to one of our neighbouring countries, with which we deal most, CO2 would not serve the climate, which is why we think it is wise as long as we have a market for oil and gas and as long as we have resources in the North Sea. And then, on the other hand, we need to concentrate on funding a part of the welfare society and also to spend the money on moving forward in the green transition and getting rid of fossil fuels. Therefore, we think it is wiser to achieve faster targets for the green transition rather than to phase out the Danish part of the North Sea, which will not mean anything to global CO2 and if it matters, it actually means that it will increase because production in other countries emits more CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104400	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104401	But this research-based assessment that we have to charge 80%. Stay in the ground, doesn't just apply to Denmark. It applies to all oil and gas and coal-producing countries. So it can be said that it is not because we want to move a production. It's just that every country has to make this reduction. After all, the Social Democrats have agreed to an agreement that cements that we must continue to extract oil and gas until 2046 or 2048. Why not make a settlement plan so that we can quietly turn down how much oil and gas we extract, and perhaps by 2030 or 2035 countries that we are done with that story?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104448	The recommendation that has come from science that we should leave most of the known reserves in the ground is no good reason to discuss, for it is as it is. The problem is that the agreement we have made internationally is not about how much is being offered on the market, but about how much is being demanded. For what is regulated is how much CO2 so what we have to do with the oil-producing countries, but also with the highly developed countries and Europe and the United States and all sorts of others, is to reduce CO2 and in that sense oil becomes a worse and worse business. We simply cannot, unfortunately, influence that with a Danish effort alone. On the contrary, it would just mean that the barrels we do not sell would be sold by a neighbouring country which, by the way, has greater CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104543	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104547	The SF has launched a climate account, and we have, because we have recognised that there is simply not enough money to do what we want to do if we are to achieve targets in the climate area within the next four years. And we're in a hurry, because it's not in 2030 or 2050, but now we have to start the effort. We have started, and in the energy sector we have made a good deal • fortunately together with the Social Democracy and also with the government. However, one of the areas where it is very clear right now that we need money is biogas. After all, we are going to have a hole, because we are experiencing a very large search for biogas right now, and that is positive, but that means that the money we expected we could spend in the new energy agreement on biogas afterwards will be missing some of. Will the Social Democratic Party be open to looking after an election to add more money to that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104636	We would like to discuss how we will also ensure the future expansion of biogas, and one of the ways we can do this is to get a little better at quantifying the qualities of biogas, which are not pure energy qualities, i.e. the system qualities that are in that you can save the gas, and the environmental benefits that are in that you get less nitrogen emissions and other things in the fields. So there are a lot of positive things to say about biogas. We also need to do something sensible about the organic waste we have. So we'd like to discuss it. After all, it is no secret that biogas is actually a very large item of expenditure in the energy agreement we have just made, and that is why I believe that what we are going to do with biogas will be a transition to something more market-based, and that will do the total cost per year. produced biogas unit much less. But, of course, we will help to look at both how to get rid of the environmental problems created by what we make the gas and how to create more gas in our system, so that we secure storage capacity. So it is certainly a commitment that we would like to discuss how to close the gap, build the bridge, or how to formulate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104741	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104743	I am quite prepared to do so on market terms and to reduce the price, and I am also pleased with what the Social Democrats are promising. This brings me to the second part, which also lacks money in relation to the energy agreement and which the rapporteur himself mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, namely the energy saving scheme. I am quite prepared to change it, and there should be no doubt about that, and I fully agree with the rapporteur that the current system was certainly not optimal. You have to look at it in another way, but the problem is that there is relatively little money set aside for energy saving initiatives. The challenge is not, of course, the new buildings, because we have managed to do so; the challenge is not only the old buildings and not only the public buildings, but private homes, and this is not enough with advisory arrangements, because there is also a need for carrots here. SF suggests that we would like to have an energy-saving fund after the choice and preferably at different market conditions and run cheaply, so that ordinary Danes also have the opportunity to renovate their houses. What is the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104840	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104841	We would like to discuss it, but I really think it is so complicated, because in many places it is worth making the energy savings, not least in the private housing stock, and then you can ask yourself what it is that does, that there are some places that it does not happen. If it is private rental, it is because those who get the prize are the tenants, and those who have to make the energy renovation are the owners of the building, and then they do not get the talk or there is no way to ensure that the opposing conflict is resolved. Other places experimented on whether what was really the most effective was that it was paid for a moving company to come and take one's things out of the apartment, moved them somewhere and moved them back in once the energy renovation was finished. One of the things that makes people not get it done is that it's trouble. That is what does it, and that is why we need to look at how we can ensure that, when homes change hands when people move, there is a clear incentive to do so. But perhaps we can also nudge, as it is called in New Danish, some people to think about whether energy savings could not be made now, and not postponed, as we all often come to home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503104948	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now there are no further comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105001	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement. I think it is an interesting statement to read through, and I think it is a good tradition that we have among the energy rapporteurs that we have this annual debate on the state of play in the last year. One of the things that has filled a great deal in the area of energy policy over the last year is, of course, the energy agreement that was concluded at the end of June last year. One of the things contained in the Energy Agreement is precisely this national objective that Denmark should have a net zero emissions of CO2 It is a very sensible objective to have, because it also makes Denmark want to live up to its part of the Paris Agreement. One of the things that is also included in the energy agreement, and which is, it can be said, more concrete, is the decision to build three new offshore wind farms, which must make it possible for us to really achieve a breakthrough in the supply of renewable energy in Danish electricity supply. The fact that we have decided to have not just one, as the government initially proposed, but three offshore wind farms, also indicates that sea wind has become considerably cheaper than only a few years ago, and it is very gratifying that it is moving in this direction. Technological development means that we have moved from having to support with more than DKK 1. per Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is also our hope in the Danish People's Party that when we make the offers of these three new offshore wind farms, it will be some bids that come in that are very low, and we certainly expect that when we reach the third offshore wind farm, it will not have any support at all anymore. The need for much less support for renewable energy has also been noted in relation to solar cells and land winds. It has also become quite a lot cheaper in the last year. In 2017, the Danish People's Party and the government signed an agreement on what we call the technology-neutral tender, where we are just making an offer over the support for solar cells and landwinds and other technologies. As a result, the aid now granted is in the range from 2 cents to 3 cents per year. kilowatt-hour with an average of 2.27 øre per. kilowatt-hour. This is, of course, a considerable reduction compared with the old aid scheme, which paid exactly 25 cents per annum. kilowatt-time in support of renewable energy. So that is quite a considerable reduction, and it is worth welcoming. We are also delighted in the Danish People's Party that the Energy Agreement is precisely continuing the technology-neutral tender so that it is no longer just an agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government, but that it is an agreement between all the parties of the Danish Parliament that it is the arrangement that we continue with in the years to come. One might also say that the energy agreement has set the course. It has set the course for us to have more wind turbines at sea instead of on land. We have set a limit on how many wind turbines there may be on land, but in return we will expand with wind turbines out at sea. We think this is a natural development, because there are, unfortunately, many people who feel annoyed by wind turbines on land, both by flashes of light, shadow effects and also by low frequency noise. And then we actually think that the Danish landscape is prettier without the windmills. So let us finally get more windmills, but let us put them out at sea where no one feels bothered by them. This also leads me to mention the two coastal offshore wind farms, Vesterhav North and Vesterhav South, because I have to say that it is a pity that these offshore wind farms are being set up coastally in places where the people around them will be bothered by them. It has been a goal for the Danish People's Party to move them further to sea, but unfortunately we have to note that there are parties that insist that they should be set up in the place where it is now planned. We would have liked them to get up much further out at sea. And it is certainly our endeavour that in future all offshore wind turbines will be set up so far out at sea that they cannot bother anyone. Another important thing for the Danish People's Party, which is part of the Energy Agreement, is the effort to improve energy efficiency, because it has been a priority for the Danish People's Party for many years. We have to say that when it comes to removing CO2 and we believe that energy efficiency improvements are actually very healthy in economic terms, because one thing is that CO2 is removed. So energy efficiency improvements are something that we would very much like to continue working on, and we also welcome the fact that it has become of great importance and takes up a fair share of the energy agreement that was concluded last summer. I will conclude by putting forward a proposal for adoption. It is on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party. It sounds like this: Suggested adoption Denmark is a pioneering country in the field of green conversion. The Danish Parliament notes with great satisfaction that the government concluded an energy agreement with all the Danish Parliament's parties in 2018 to ensure that Denmark remains a green pioneer country and achieves net zero emissions of CO2 The Danish Parliament recognises that the energy agreement allows Denmark to reach approx. 55% renewable energy in energy consumption, green electricity generation and almost green district heating production. Coal for electricity generation shall be phased out until 2030. These are ambitious objectives which continue to encapsulate energy policy, which was cemented by the 2018 Energy Agreement. The Government, in cooperation with the Energy Regulatory Committee, has allocated substantial appropriations for this purpose. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to make an important contribution, through a continued ambitious and innovative energy policy, to the UN's global goals and the EU's 2030 objectives. • V 92).
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105656	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the debate. Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105708	The rapporteur speaks of some people being bothered by wind turbines, and it also sounds as if the rapporteur would, in this way, renounce the energy conciliation that we have from 2012 and will not live up to the agreements that have been reached to build coastal offshore wind farms that have been in supply and which are currently in a process around. I would really like to hear how the citizens of Hvidovre feel, i.e. whether they have a worse life in Hvidovre, because there are a few wind turbines on the coast of Hvidovre. I think there is a slight tendency to be alarmed by planned wind turbines, and I also think it is interesting that there are so many tourists coming to Nyhavn, despite the fact that wind turbines can be seen from there. So there are some things that can be done, even if you have a view where you can also see the Danish renewable energy production. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think that the wind turbine resistance has gone a little too crazy. With regard to what is going on at the North Sea, it is not they who live there, but summer house owners who protest that some windmills can be placed 4 km outside, which you would not hear at all. Does the rapporteur not see that this wind turbine resistance has gone a little crazy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105829	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105830	I certainly do not think that windmill resistance has gone crazy. I do not sense at all that there is any resistance to wind turbines, but I sense that there is a resistance to poor wind turbines, and I think that is very real to talk about. There are people who are being harassed by low-frequency noise, flashes of light and shadow effects, and this must be taken seriously. There are also people who just want to have a pretty view as nature has created it, without rotating wind turbines, and I think that can be accommodated by setting up wind turbines far out at sea. I would like to thank the questioner for his concern for the citizens of Hvidovre. There are indeed three large offshore windmills on the southern tip of Avedoer Holme, and you can see them anywhere in the municipality, no matter where you are. You can't hear them. I admit it, but I'd like to say that I'd rather not have them on the horizon, and I think there are a lot of people who feel that way. Then I can say that the Danish People's Party is not running from the 2012 Energy Agreement, but the coastal offshore wind farms that are included in the 2012 Agreement were not included on the Danish People's Party's initiative, and we have just called for another location to be found for these coastal offshore wind farms. You can agree between the parties to the agreement, but there are also some parties to the agreement. The Enhedslisten has rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105946	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503105948	I am pleased that the citizens of Hvidovre have a good life and can see some wind turbines that help produce their energy. Now the proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur read out, referred to the fact that, among other things, we are dealing with a number of issues. this point was made by 55%. renewable energy by 2030. Now we have a report from the Climate Council that points out that if these data centres come, we need to expand with two extra large offshore wind farms. I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on living up to 55%. VE in 2030, which will be highlighted in the proposal for adoption, and whether or not the rapporteur agrees that two additional offshore wind farms should be built by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110026	In Dansk Folkeparti we have no objection to building more offshore wind farms, but now we already have three along the way, so it has to be no. 4 and 5 in line, I can figure out if mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen wants two more. We assume that, even before we have finished making the three, we have reached the point where offshore wind farms are no longer to receive any financial support. So for us, it doesn't matter that we get a park number. 4 or 5, if they are not to be supported financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110055	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110059	I would also like to ask most of all about the Vesterhav South and the Vesterhav North, because does the rapporteur not think that it is fair when you make an agreement with producers and say that they must bid under certain conditions, which are made with a municipality, with a council of towns and cities, that you then also tell the producers: you can count on us to deliver on what we have previously promised? Or has the Danish People's Party now become a party that runs from such promises?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110135	We are not running from any promises, but we are trying to adjust the wrong decisions, and we could have done that years ago. I remember that up to, I think it was four years ago when we had a parliamentary election campaign last time, we launched the desire to stop the process and move them further out. I remember that other parties did. But SF was one of the parties which, as I remember, stubbornly insisted that the North Sea and the West Sea South should be built close to the coast. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr can confirm that herself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110207	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110211	I think it is crucial when you make tenders and ask producers to bid that you do not subsequently impose an additional burden on them. If we should have decided from the start to demand that the mills be 10 km out or 15 km out or something else, then that was another matter. That is why it is a little important from the point of view of energy policy whether one can count on one another. That's why we have these broad agreements. We can look each other in the eye and say: we have made these demands, we send them out to the producers so that they know what they can count on and then they can bid. And then we find politicians on no further demands. I understand that there are some who are frustrated to see some mills. I can certainly understand that. But now the process is so far off that I would like to ask whether it is still the position of the Danish People's Party that you can pull the plug. And is the Danish People's Party both willing to pay the money it will most likely demand in compensation for those who then lose something like producers who have to build and subsequently accept that electricity from offshore wind turbines will cost significantly more? For future producers who will then bid on offshore wind turbines, they will also have the risk built in that they may risk Dansk Folkeparti coming up with additional demands. I think that would be useful to know for the further energy negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110322	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110326	I cannot stand here on behalf of the Danish People's Party and say that we will pay a bill regardless of the size of it, but we would very much like to look at how we can move these two coastal offshore wind farms out somewhere where they don't bother other people. But I think it is a pity to hear that the SF President is standing in this Chamber saying that just because you have made a decision several years ago and then you find that it was perhaps not the best possible, so you have to stick to it anyway. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110351	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503110405	Thank you. As most people have probably discovered, we are today discussing an energy policy statement for 2019, and so we look back on what must be described as a no less than impressive year in Danish energy policy, where we among other things. the country has the widest energy agreement in Danish history. With the agreement, we are drawing the direction for Denmark's future expansion with renewable energy, and we are showing the way to 55% renewable energy in energy production and 100% green power in 2030. At the same time, the energy agreement is an important step on the road to net zero emissions by 2050. For the third consecutive year in 2018, Denmark has been designated as the country in the world with the best energy system. We are world champions of sea winds and European champions of green exports. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has concluded an agreement on technology-neutral offers in relation to wind and sun, which has revolutionised support for renewable energy. We are among the countries internationally that are generally best at green conversion, while at the same time overfulfilling several of our EU climate commitments. We have many green results to boast of for great inspiration for the countries around us. It comes, among other things. in terms of our many bilateral cooperation on climate change, where other countries are very happy to learn from the Danish way of doing so. But we need to do even more. The United Nations Climate Panel is calling for our emissions to be reduced much more if we are to have a chance to live up to the Paris Agreement. In other words, the need for action is urgent. Fortunately, at home, there is a strong set aside. With the energy agreement, we are working on net zero emissions in 2050, as the UN climate panel also strongly calls for. The government is pushing for the same thing in the EU. With the energy agreement, we can also look forward to at least three new offshore wind farms. The first, called Thor, has already started, and we need to expand with much more renewable energy by 2030 than what can be delivered from the three agreed offshore wind farms. In Denmark we have some unique opportunities for sea winds. This shows the screening we have just made of the Danish offshore wind potential. If we make full use of that potential, we will be able to supply over 10 million households with green electricity. The Energy Agreement also contains significant reductions in the electricity and electric heating tax. An electrification of our energy system is still alpha and omega when we talk green transition. All the good green power we produce must of course benefit the Danes in the energy supply, and we must thus displace the fossil energy. The energy agreement marks a significant shift that is taking place in these years, when we are putting forward the expansion of renewable energy in order to achieve an entirely non-supporting expansion, and we are very well on the way. In addition to the offshore wind farms, competition is being launched. also energy efficiency improvement efforts, future biogas expansion and, of course, the 4.2 billion. kr., we have set aside annually for even more renewable energy in the coming years. Last year, we adopted a series of laws that follow up the energy agreement's objective of increasing freedom and flexibility in the heat sector, both for consumers and heating plants. It is only right and proper that both consumers and heating plants should be able to make the investment decisions that make the best sense to them. It also increases competition for consumers and thus ensures consumers the best heat prices. We are facing a number of challenges in the context of the green transition, which we can only solve by investing in the development of new green technology. This applies, for example, to the storage of energy, even better climate-friendly solutions in agriculture, occupied by CO2 If market forces are to drive the green transition, we politically need to put our hands on the development of tomorrow's green technologies, and that is why we are giving priority, among other things, to the development of tomorrow's green technologies. to allocate 580 million. kr. for research, development and demonstration of green solutions, and the 580 million. kr. We're going to raise it to 1 billion. kr. Towards 2024. On the Danish side, we also support international efforts such as Mission Innovation, Horizon 2020, P4G etc., where we work together globally to develop solutions to the challenges we face. Because it is essential for the green transition that we work together globally. Climate change is taking place across national borders, which is why we in the government are constantly pulling towards thinking globally in the design of our green agreements and legislation rather than exclusively national. I welcome the many multilateral and bilateral cooperation agreements that Denmark is part of in favour of more renewable energy. I have just mentioned three: Mission Innovation, Horizon 2020 and P4G. South Korea on offshore winds and with Scotland on district heating and energy efficiency. With the UN's global goals, we are setting a common direction worldwide for a more sustainable globe, but also in the daily legislation that we have here at Christiansborg, a common foothold across countries and across parties. We must continue the good work. All in all, I think that we have a very sensible green start from the Danish side, and the good moves from 2018 must of course continue after the elections and for the many years to come. Of course, I would like to mention that the energy agreement is extremely strong in conjunction with the government's climate and air projects, such as: contains a significant cut in emissions from the transport sector. Together, the energy agreement and climate and air play here already 11 years in advance show the way to achieve our 2030 target, and I think we can all be proud of that. In the meantime, we can welcome the government's new climate legislation, which we will continue with after the summer holidays. In those words, we support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Mikkel Dencker read out, and I shall greet our friends in the Conservative People's Party and say that they are doing the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111028	There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111032	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur highlighted the government's climate and air emissions. However, it is a climate and hot air project, an election document that came in November, and the government has not managed to negotiate more than anything that might give a few electric cars towards 2030. It's just a loser play. What I really want to ask you is this Climate Act, the citizens' proposal for a new climate bill that should have been discussed on Tuesday, and where the usual energy and climate rapporteur of the Left has put forward a shower of questions which then means that we will not be able to vote on that citizens' proposal. I would really like to hear the Left: could it not have landed with a united Parliament adopting that citizens' proposal? After all, a legislative proposal has to be put forward, in which it is possible to clarify what it is like to strengthen the Climate Council, what it is like to live up to 5 billion. kr. for climate aid to the countries of the world and that perhaps it was not something that was promised to be included in the next financial law, but then the next one again. Couldn't one have written oneself out of something where one could, in a way, have gathered the Danish Parliament to support that citizens' proposal? Honestly, I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111138	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111140	I don't think Enhedslisten should be so sad. I am convinced that there will be many more electric cars. It's like the ketchup bottle you knock on, and all of a sudden it comes out. We are going to see so many electric cars in the coming time that you think it's a lie. This afternoon I am going personally to inaugurate a parking garage at Langelands Plads, where there are ten power stations, because there is simply a demand for it. It's going to be really fast, so I'm not so worried about that. With regard to the citizens' proposal, I would like to say that there are a great many good tactics in this citizens' proposal, and much of it will also be included in our climate legislation. I have to admit that I have slightly changed my attitude to the citizens' proposals, because I have to admit that they have given some rather good debates in this way, forced us to have some sensible debates in this Chamber, which must then be translated into a law, and it would probably be a little optimistic to think that a citizen's proposal could only be translated into legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111236	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111239	It was then a non-answer which shows that the Left does not support this citizen's proposal in the short run, but rather would like to have some debates where the Minister for Climate and Energy, for example. is sent to Vordingborg for a public meeting, and then you think the problem is gone. It's not. Now I know that the rapporteur has little knowledge of the municipal area, and we have a huge task in that there is a backlog of energy savings in municipal buildings and that some municipalities are being slowed down in making sensible investments. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not see any possibility of allowing municipalities to make energy renovations, creating new ventilation systems, for example. in schools, which could help reduce energy consumption. One could take those projects and implement them outside the plant ceiling so that the municipalities could have something more, that is to say to have a better framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111324	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111327	That's a strange conclusion to what I said. So, I say that there are a great many good tactics in the citizens' proposal, and what we can even incorporate into the future Climate Act will be incorporated into the Climate Act. That is not the same as our opposition. We think there is a great deal of sense in this citizens' proposal, and that is why, frankly, I think it is a polemical way of going about things. With regard to the plant ceiling it is quite correct; there are some challenges in that plant ceiling. But I cannot stand here from Parliament's platform and negotiate on behalf of the KL or the government. But this is certainly a matter of concern to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111358	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111404	Thank you. In the energy policy statement we are discussing here today, the Minister writes:... The Energy Agreement sets targets for net zero emissions in Denmark by 2050 at the latest. In this way, Denmark takes the lead in the global and European efforts to live up to the Paris Agreement. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with my frustration when I read that sentence. I am wondering how to take the lead by setting the same objectives as those set out in the Paris Agreement. I mean, net zero emissions in 2050... it's what the whole world has to achieve if we're going to live up to the Paris agreement. So how can it be that Denmark takes the lead in global and European action, that we set a target out in 2050, which everyone who has signed the Paris Agreement will achieve? Should we just have the same level as Saudi Arabia, as China, as India and as the other countries included in the Paris Agreement, or should we not give it an extra shell and set far more significant targets, some previous targets and some more ambitious targets in order to be ahead?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111520	Well, now it says explicitly at the latest at Frederiksberg, for example, we have a local goal to be CO2 Now it's a long time to 2050, and I feel relatively convinced that that figure will be lowered. But we do not lower it until we can see that it is realistic and possible to achieve it. But Denmark is I have seen such posters where it says: Make Denmark a green forerunner again! Well, it's so, there's no need to hang with your head and be frustrated and sad. Well, we do it really, really well in Denmark. We are at the forefront in Denmark in the green area. And that is why there is no reason to be sad and sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111557	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111601	I am aware of the wording of the last question. The fact is that if you make a soft target like this, it is no more than a year or two. And I know that we do a lot of good things in Denmark, but we have also relaxed our ambitions, and there are a lot of things that we could do far better. And all that would be put into a good framework if we set an ambitious objective, for example. to say it should be in 2040 or even earlier and not in 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111638	Yeah, but let's see what happens. I mean, I have been working on the environment for so long now that I know that if I had said that we should be CO2 Christian Poll said that it is far too late and that it should be in half an hour. And if I had said, okay, we'll do it in half an hour. Christian Poll said it should have been done yesterday. So I understand that we all want to be ambitious, and I think we should be ambitious too. But then there must also be some kind of realism in the objectives, because then we will reach the longest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111707	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111712	You can be both realist and ambitious. Both are actually possible. It has been in the area of climate change so far until we got this government. Then you were a realist without being ambitious. That's fair enough. But I do not really think that this is a good idea for the rapporteur. In fact, the rapporteur does not usually do that. Having said that, however, I would like to ask something quite different, namely about the offshore wind farms in the North Sea, where the Left has many positions, and I think it would be nice to know in the Assembly what the position of the Left really is on these two coastal mill parks. Because I can note in the local press that the Left is very much against them. But, as far as I know, we have an energy conciliation which the Left is also behind, and although it was in the original proposal from the Left that one did not want to have the coastal mills, I expect the producers who have calculated them to put money out, spent money, not suddenly to experience that the Left is running away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111821	That it is actually a hetz against the alternative: Now you may have to be careful that your skin doesn't get so thin that it cracks; that I should have stood here from Parliament's platform and hetzed the alternative, so I have very, very difficult to see. I think it's the upcoming election that's made the emotions sit on the outside of the clothes. But let it go. I was asked about some offshore wind turbines and local resistance. I can only say that the government's policy is determined by the government, and I also know that some local interests can sometimes be held. That is the case, but in the end a joint decision is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111904	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111907	Now there is something very special about these two coastal offshore wind farms, in addition to the fact that the agreement has been made and that a tender has been made and that they will soon be put on the agenda again, because it is not such a random person who has spoken out very critically about them, but that it is the Left's own rapporteur in this area, and that is why I am slightly in doubt. I understand what the government's position is, but I would like to hear what the position of the current rapporteur on climate and energy is, and whether that is the position of the Left. It's just that we have no doubt about it. I think it is absolutely crucial that producers have a certainty that the agreements that have been concluded will not suddenly be amended by a subsequent billions bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503111955	Nothing has changed, and if it changes, I am quite sure that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr will know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112004	Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112006	What does the rapporteur think of his party colleague travelling up and down the West Coast saying that they want to drop these offshore wind farms, which actually account for 10%? of our electricity supply with wind? It is a very, very large proportion; it is 3 million. t CO 2 How does the rapporteur of the Left feel about a colleague travelling around and taking cheap points in the local area when it is not the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112029	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112033	Well, I have no official opinion on that, and I do not think that is surprising either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112037	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112040	Can the rapporteur then explain to us why we should think that the Left can find a way of showing leadership when every time it gets difficult locally, because it's hard to make the green transition start shaking your pants? Then you don't really want to stand by it, and then you start taking cheap points and upsetting the local area. Can the rapporteur understand that the rest of us may not think that the Left is the right party to lead Denmark in a greener direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112103	No, I really can't understand that. For the Left has, of course, had a relatively decisive role in Danish politics since 2001. In fact, we have been in the PM for 14 out of 18 years. And in the four years when there was a social democratic parenthesis, we also had a great deal to say; we were in all the energy reconciliations that were made. So I can't understand that at all. In other words, when you look at the place where Denmark stands today, and then look at the role of the Left in Danish politics since the turn of the millennium, I cannot understand why you can come to that conclusion. Well, I just can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112136	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Well, then, sir. Leif Mikkelsen was allowed to come a little before Enhedslisten, for Mr. Leif Mikkelsen will have the chair here in 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112158	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for the flexibility in the series of speakers here, and thank you to the Minister for Energy for the energy policy statement. Two years ago, at the corresponding debate on the question, the Liberal Alliance's energy rapporteur, Mr. Carsten Bach states that in the coming months, the Liberal Alliance will work intensively to secure a market-based energy agreement for 2020 and beyond. Since then, we have not had the debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber because last year, at this time, we just negotiated a new energy agreement and, as you know, this resulted in a broad agreement at the end of June 2018. The energy agreement is by no means the most important thing that has happened in Danish energy policy over the last two years. The agreement represents a shift to a much more liberal energy policy than we have ever seen in Denmark before. First of all, the agreement reduces electricity taxes, so that in the future more will choose green solutions based on green energy sources. In addition, there is a shift to a more market-based, competitive green transition, which already offers lower prices for renewable energy expansion, among other things. the technology-neutral tenders. By 2030, the share of green electricity in our electricity consumption will be 100%, and more than half of our total energy consumption will be green energy. With the energy agreement, we ensure a cost-effective green transition towards the moment when the market can take over completely, and among other things. The expansion of renewable energy can be achieved without State aid. Energy saving efforts are also being competitionised and targeted in a two-tier model of supply for efficiency in buildings and industry, while research into new green technologies is also being increased. All of this has inspired us in the Liberal Alliance. In fact, recently we published our well-defined and fully funded economic 2030 plan and associated climate plan. With this plan, we are putting pressure on the green transition by lowering electricity taxes to the EU's minimum level, so that green solutions such as heat pumps and the use of surplus heat are really attractive. We're gonna set off 3.7 billion. kr. extra per year for climate research, and in the end we also allocate additional funds for increased energy savings. In short, it is a much more liberal energy policy, and we are thus moving away from the planned economic initiatives of the past. With these comments, I would just like to thank again for the statement and to state that the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption, which was read out by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112448	Thank you. There is no comment to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's speech, and then we can move on to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's speech. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503112459	We need a new and better climate law with binding targets. We need Denmark to increase its international contributions with climate assistance from Denmark of 5 billion. kr. a year. We need to increase international solidarity in order to curb climate change and help the part of the planet's population affected by floods, droughts, lack of drinking water and food. We are facing massive flows of climate refugees if we do not help each other stop global warming. There is a need for the European Union to raise its ambitions for renewable energy and CO2 I think it is gratifying that a united Parliament recently supported the Enhedslisten's proposal to reduce support for nuclear power in the European Union. I think it is really a pity that the government has postponed the second reading of the citizens' proposal for a new climate law by asking too late a shower of new questions, which has, of course, meant that we did not deal with the citizens' proposal this week. Climate action needs to be given priority, and that is obviously not the policy of the Blue Government. There are young people without the right to vote who organise school strikes to shout adults up. Enhedslisten listens. We have created a comprehensive climate plan for the transition towards 2030, and our target is a zero-emission society by 2040. We have plenty of clearly defined policy that can be better used by a different majority in the Folketing, and we are ready to influence the next Finance Act. The Enhedslisten emphasizes a socially fair path to the green society in Denmark on the way to a green and fair world. The Youth Climate Council has recently recommended that Denmark become a zero-emission society in 2040. The Enhedslisten fully agrees, and we hope that there are several parties that realise that the objective that we currently have of being a zero-emission society by 2050, is far too late if it is the case that we have to live up to the Paris Agreement and take global climate change seriously. We need to raise the targets in Denmark in order to be part of the global solutions to the climate crisis. The Climate Council recently drew attention to the problems of achieving 55 per cent. renewable energy in Denmark by 2030, if the planned data centres are established. So as things stand now, the Climate Council points out that two additional offshore wind farms will have to be built by 2030 to reach the target. And I have noted here today that the rapporteurs are not so far opposed to that being part of the solution. But that aspect is missing from the energy policy statement. Then there's another side to these data centres, which need more attention and which the Climate Council points out. Because if these data centres do not contribute to the development of renewable energy sources, then we have a bill of 400 million. kr. per year, which other electricity consumers will pay. This means that ordinary citizens and businesses in Denmark will pay 400 million. kr. additional to ensure the supply of electricity to these data centres if they do not contribute. That is why Enhedslisten has put forward a proposal that new energy-consuming companies that establish themselves in Denmark should contribute to the expansion of renewable energy when it is the case that they choose to establish themselves here in Denmark because there is all the renewable energy. They must contribute and not sneak on the system. We also think it is important to come to the conclusion that we can recover any surplus heat from large companies. To date, there has been far too much poor planning, which has not ensured that surplus heat enters the common heat supply. For example: You get a new data centre in a field at Viborg, without the excess heat that comes from it entering the district heating system. If we take Viking Link, which is also mentioned in the energy policy statement, it is our clear view in Enhedslisten that it is a planned misinvestment for 11 billion. DKK, which is planned to be paid by the Danish electricity consumers, where in West Jutland you get some masters as an extra nuisance for the entire project. And I would like to say here that the Minister has full responsibility for that misinvestment. It is the Minister who approves major projects over 200 million. kr., and you'll have to say that these 11 billion. kr. Danish electricity consumers are paying for it. What is also a problem with this project, which is to build a new electric cable for England, is that it is not part of the solution to climate problems. One could imagine that it was if it was the case that new cables were planned from where large offshore wind farms were planned. But here we are dealing with a cable which ends up having to export coal and lignite currents from Germany to England. We believe in Enhedslisten that Danish legislation is obsolete. Energynet.dk is thus required by law to think of electricity cables and gas pipelines, and then we end up in a situation where Denmark develops to become a transit country for energy instead of further developing as a green forerunner country. We need to ensure a comprehensive energy system where electricity from renewable energy is used optimally in good interaction with district heating, with a switch to electricity, where hydrogen and electrofuel and other things are produced at the right times and can be part of the future's energy stock. To develop new solutions, we need more research and development funds. The Enhedslisten fully supports the restoration of those funds so that 1 billion are spent annually. kr. However, in the middle of the joy, it has to be said that it is a restoration of what it was like before this government came into office. Then we still need the popular commitment and participation in the expansion of renewable energy and in saving energy. And the energy saving is extremely important, and it is important that all actors are involved in prioritising and reducing our total energy consumption. We have tasks where municipalities and municipal district heating companies and co-owned energy companies, pension funds and Ørsted A/S, of which 51 per cent. still owned by the state, has a huge task in playing in the transition to 100 per cent. renewable energy. I think it is also a little thought-provoking that it is the major players who have a greater and greater share of the role, and I wish, of course, back to the time when the individual, the individual consumer, had easier access to the solutions. And it must also be noted that the changes in the rules on solar cells adopted during this government's time over the last four years have, in this way, been detrimental to public engagement and confidence in politicians. I would also like to welcome the fact that good things are happening. The popular engagement against shale gas in Denmark has contributed to and has resulted in a law which specifies that oil and gas from the mainland should not be recovered in Denmark or from the Danish inland waters. It was a good decision. We will then have to roll it out to waters further out. We need to increase the political ambitions of the energy agreement. In other words, a climate agreement is needed which includes the transport sector and agriculture. The government's climate and hot air action was an election paper back from November. This has led to some negotiations on some electric cars. And it may also be that this agreement means that 1000 extra electric cars will arrive towards 2030, despite the fact that we have a Prime Minister who has aired the idea that there will be 1 million electric cars when we reach 2030. They do not come by themselves; the Norwegian priority of electric cars shows that political priorities help to drive a development. We need a different majority in the Folketing so that in the next Finance Act we can turn up our ambitions in the area of energy and climate. The Enhedslisten strongly supports the proposal for adoption by a single opposition. The proposal clearly outlines that the Paris Agreement should be taken seriously, and I think that the text points forward to us also implementing climate action in agriculture, and that we should listen to the Climate Council and the recommendations of other experts. When you look at the statement by the Danish People's Party and the government, you have to say that it is such a statement about: Now that we then take stock of what we reached and did not reach before the current government goes off after the next election. This is a very defensive statement, which only relates to the past, whereas the statement of a united opposition is, in fact, something that points forward and that can be an essential basis for a red and green policy, a climate-priority policy, after the next elections. So I think that until now we have seen the differences that exist in the Folketing and shown that there are differences between parties and groupings, despite the fact that an energy agreement has been agreed in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503113500	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. The next one standing next, sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503113514	Thank you. It was with great pleasure that I and the alternative were able to enter into the energy agreement on which all the parties of the Folketing agreed last summer. Thank you, my fellow Members, the energy rapporteurs of the opposition parties in particular, who, together with me, lifted a very thin first version of an energy agreement from the government to the agreement that we all ended up in at the end and which was, after all, much stronger. In my view, it is an agreement that lays the foundations and addresses most important aspects of the transition to a renewable energy system and ensures that we can build up to the level of ambition that is really necessary to reach Denmark's contribution to keeping the temperature increases below 1.5 to a maximum of 2 degrees. But it is an agreement that really simply lays the foundations. The pace of conversion is far too low; three offshore wind farms are not enough at all. We said from the start of the negotiations ten offshore wind farms up to 2030 based on the Climate Council's assessments. Now several parties have announced that the three parks are not enough, and I am very pleased about that, but we still have a long way to go to set up the equivalent of an offshore wind farm per year until we have a completely fossil-free energy system. In the energy agreement circle, we must keep each other in mind to adjust the framework for a rapid transition to a fossil-free energy system with the right balance between all the technologies that contribute to this transformation. For example: biomass is not just biomass. There is a large difference between imported wood pellets and local biomass from garden park waste. There is a big difference between a small solar plant on a parcel house and a solar park on several hectares with hundreds of panels on a field. Instead of a system based on few large plants producing electricity and heat based on coal or wood pellets, we are now building a system that is based on a large, wide palette of renewable energy sources and on much more electricity and is much more decentralised. We don't think Viking Link or Baltic Pipe is needed. There is a need for massive investment in energy storage in Denmark close to energy sources. Investment is needed in the whole energy sector, and the link with all the sectors that are also part of the climate crisis is extremely important. This is the connection to transport, agriculture and buildings. Unfortunately, the citizens' proposal for a climate bill signed by more than 60 000 citizens the other day has been stopped by the government so that it cannot be adopted before the elections. And I think that is really a pity, because now it is very uncertain whether we will have the strong framework that an ambitious climate law would be for our future cooperation. I had hoped that we could agree on a rapid adoption. Then I would like to say a few words about the energy policy statement itself. In the statement, the Minister writes: "The Energy Agreement sets targets for net zero emissions in Denmark by 2050 at the latest. In this way, Denmark takes the lead in the global and European efforts to live up to the Paris Agreement. ▪ How does Denmark lead with a target of net zero by 2050? I don't really understand. If we are to achieve the Paris goals, the whole world must be close to being climate neutral by 2050. So as many countries as possible must be net zero, that is. without coal, oil and gas, in 2050. Should Denmark then just have the same goals as Saudi Arabia, as China, as India, as Brazil, as Indonesia? I do not think it is ambitious to set that objective, because that is the objective that the whole world must achieve. So if Denmark is to take the lead in the global effort to live up to the Paris Agreement, as stated in the statement, then we must be far more ambitious in our objectives. Then there is the area on which we have a special focus in the Alternative, namely that we have been extracting oil and gas in the North Sea for many, many years. It peaked many years ago and today we are down to a third of the production that was when we peaked. There have been several projections of how much we can get out of the North Sea and what it means to us, and I think there are a lot, indeed, of misunderstandings. I hear, for example. often the argument: we might as well pull our own oil out of the underground as long as we need oil, because it is better than importing from oil states in the Middle East. But most energy is traded internationally, and the Danish production and consumption of oil are not actually linked. During the many years when Denmark has had a net export of oil, we have continued to import oil. There is no connection between Danish oil production and the gasoline you pour on your car. Today we export more than half of the oil from the North Sea. On the other hand, we import 6 million. m3 crude oil per year. In the whole of society we spend about 9 million. m3 oil annually, of which we import 6 million. m3 from Norway and Russia, and we export more than 5 million. m3 to e.g. Sweden. So oil and gas, like furniture and food, are something that we export and import, and there is no particular connection that makes us dependent on the oil we ourselves pull up. I also often hear that our welfare depends on oil money. And I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that the North Sea is not the gold mine it has been. The officially expected revenue is estimated at 4-6 billion. kr. a year; there is a huge uncertainty about the figures. In 2016, taxes on oil and gas amounted to only 0.2 per cent. of the total Danish tax revenue. That's 1.5 billion. kr. in North Sea revenue from hydrocarbon tax and corporation tax according to the green national accounts. However, in 2017, revenue increased to around 5.2 billion. kr. As a result of an increase in oil prices and increased gas production, revenue fluctuates greatly and is generally decreasing. The production out there is quietly stalling, but it has been extended with the North Sea Agreement, and we are really sorry about that in the alternative. We think we should have put in place a phasing-out plan so that we could have quietly phased out activities in the North Sea and the country at zero by about 2035 or perhaps 2040. Finally, there is what is being ignored by many, including here in the Parliamentary Chamber, namely that researchers say that if we are to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, we must leave 80% of it. of the known reserves remain underground. And that's just if we're gonna get to the 2-degree target. Then I often hear the argument that it is better for us to pull it up here than for other countries to pull oil and gas out of the ground. I just want to ask what kind of agreement it is for countries, the government and the parties that are part of the North Sea Agreement. Because if we're gonna keep pulling more than 20%... of our well-known reserves, there are other countries that need to pull even less than 20%. of their known reserves up. And how to eliminate the production of coal, oil and gas in the world, we will have to deal with the coming years. With these comments, I would like to say that we agree with the motion for a resolution. V 91, presented by Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114335	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114340	I have to say that I have noted that the alternative is very much concerned with stopping Danish production of oil and gas from the North Sea, but does not the alternative recognise that global demand for oil and gas is not affected just because it stops producing in Denmark? After all, there will still be plenty of providers, and we must also note that the need is still there for a while. So does the alternative really think it is better that it is the Treasury of Saudi Arabia or Qatar or Russia that has revenue from the production of oil and gas than that it is the Danish Treasury? I have to say that these are probably more sensible things we are making up to spend money on in Denmark than we are doing in Russia or Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114426	As I also tried to say in my speech, the whole world has almost signed up to the Paris Agreement, and that means it has to be assumed that all countries will take these figures seriously, in other words that science says that we should let 80%. of the known reserves remain in the ground. That is why Saudi Arabia and all the other oil-producing countries that we know should also start drawing up decommissioning plans. We have just not done that in Denmark, because there we have drawn up a development plan for how we can continue to pick up more and more oil and gas from the North Sea, and that is what I am sensitive to and which I think is indefensible in relation to the recommendations from climate science.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114509	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114512	Whatever Saudi Arabia has committed itself to, it is certainly not something that we are masters of here in the house, i.e. whether you live up to it or not. But what I note is that there is a demand for oil and gas in the global market, and there is also a demand for oil and gas in Denmark for decades to come, whether you like it or not. One place it has to be produced, and is it not better for it to be produced in Denmark than in Russia or Saudi Arabia? In Russia, money may be spent arming its military, while in Saudi Arabia it is spreading extreme forms of Islam, and is it better than spending it on welfare in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114549	That is why we recommend that a resolution plan be drawn up. In other words, we will not shut down production tomorrow in the North Sea, but we will draw up a phasing-out plan which, over a ten to fifteen-year period, will have reductions made year by year on how much we have to produce out there. In this way, we will meet the market as it is right now, but we will also go along with the market in demand, so that supply will follow the fall in demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114617	With this, we thank the alternative rapporteur. Then it is the radical rapporteur and that is Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503114626	Thank you for your statement, I would like to say to the Minister. What is lacking in Denmark's climate and energy policy is leadership. The leadership we have seen over the past four years on the part of the government has consisted in making some half-loose moves, and then we others have had to try to pull up the level of ambition. One could just mention the energy agreement, where the government decided for one offshore wind farm, and that number we had to increase to three; where you would spend all the money to lighten the tax on energy, which actually gives a bigger CO2 So there was a total lack of leadership. We saw it again when the government played out that the country had to have 1 million electric cars, and the Prime Minister made a fine speech. Then we came up with a proposal which, according to the Ministry of Finance's own figures, gave 1,000 a year. In other words, it would take 1,000 years for technology development not to be added to and allowed to do everything possible to achieve the government's objectives. I understand from the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says 10 at Frederiksberg. Well, that's something you can really enjoy. But it's very far from a million electric cars. Then we would like to see what would happen on agriculture, what climate policy should be made on agriculture, how our entire agriculture could be transformed, as we have done with the energy sector over 30 years, how we could get Danish agriculture right on the front as a climate-friendly agriculture. What came from the government? Nothing! You'd buy it all abroad, you'd have credited credits. There was no leadership. So what is most lacking in Danish energy policy at all is someone who wants to do this, someone who understands that this is absolutely crucial for the future of our children, so that we can show the world that this is possible. If not Denmark can show that we can be 100 per cent. self-sufficient with renewable energy, then who can? What if we had the courage to stand up and say that now we're doing this, now we're showing that hope has to come back, because it can be done. We have done so on our electricity and heat, where we are moving towards the goal set by the Radicals almost a year and a half ago, namely that we should have 100 per cent. Green energy in our electricity and heating sector by 2030. What could we do with that leadership in addition to solving climate problems for our children? We could also become the place where we develop new types of business as we have in the field of energy. It is such a great opportunity that has been right at our feet for four years, but the government has not wanted to kick that ball. If there was leadership, you could build not only the three offshore wind farms we have decided, but three more by 2030. Then we could also cover the additional energy consumption of the data centres. If there was leadership, one could have a huge vision for the North Sea and a roadmap for how we can actually produce so much wind energy that all Europe's coal power plants can be closed down. If we had leadership, one could have a heat vision for Denmark, for how we get our heat to be powered by geothermal heat, driven by heat pumps that can collect wind power when there is too much of it, by solar heat and by green gas. If leadership had been shown, we could have come in the direction of 1 million electric cars, then we could have ensured that we, for example. Had our company car tax changed, so we got more electric cars in already now. We could have demanded that all public vehicles should go to electricity wherever it was even possible, and we could have made the registration fee now so that it actually made petrol and diesel cars more expensive and electric cars even cheaper. We could also have looked at how we get a smart consumption in Denmark, using the possibility that we now actually have meters out in very many homes that can talk and send message both one way and the other, so that people have an incentive to load their electric car up, for example. at night, when there is a lot of wind and there is a need for some to use it, instead of in these hours in the afternoon, where everyone gets power. This requires that you can make dynamic taxes that make it profitable for the citizen, so that it makes sense and so that it is not DKK 3 that you save by charging your electric car at night, but a much larger amount. We could have been at the forefront of smart storage, on e-fuels, on power-to-x, storing wind power in district heating, for example. store it in water masses. For me it was a big surprise that a swimming pool can store as much energy as, I think it was 145 Teslas. After all, it is much cheaper to store energy where we already need power. And we could have been the leading country on energy research, but the government has chosen to cut back on research and education these years. What we have to live on in the future has been chosen to cut back on. Research into energy was halved. And you know what? It immediately knocks out on our export figures. When we are no longer where it is snowing, you can immediately see that this is not where our companies can sell out in the world either. So what is most lacking in Danish energy policy is leadership, and that is why I am extremely pleased, and that is what I am most pleased about today, that we are so terribly close to a choice, and I believe that if we get another majority in Denmark, where it is not the Danish People's Party that is swinging the tactics, because they will not, after all, but rather leave it to the higher powers, rather cancel the measures we have taken over at the North Sea when building wind turbines, but some who want a green future for Denmark, who wants energy policy, then I also believe that we can come back in front and not drop down the lists as a country that is no longer the green leaders of the world. So most of all we in the Radical Left are very much looking forward to an election, and we hope everyone will vote green and will vote for those who will help lead Denmark in a green direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503115235	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. And then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503115247	The real challenge facing us is that we must solve the climate problem, not in 10 years' time or in 2050, which we can sometimes get the feeling when we hear the parliamentary debates, that is to say that we will get to the end of that. It actually takes action right now. And in reality, the next four years will determine whether we can achieve the goal of preventing the temperature of this planet from rising more than 1.5 degrees, which is the ambition of the Paris Agreement. So Denmark must also get back into the driver's shirt, and this is about us investing more. Now we made an energy agreement last year, which has quite a few very sensible objectives in it. This was based on the fact that the government played out that you had to have only one offshore wind farm and that you hardly had to do anything in relation to energy savings. Fortunately, the SF, together with the other opposition during the negotiations, got the government to set up the ambition from a offshore wind farm to three offshore wind farms and also for more money for energy savings. But that does not mean that we cannot do more in the field of energy. We have to do so if we are to achieve the level of ambition that we all really want Denmark to have, but sometimes the action is difficult for some. The government has also played out something on transport and agriculture, and it is equally crucial when discussing Denmark's climate challenge; there is energy not alone, although it is energy that we are discussing today. And it has to be said that the government's proposals have been quite weak and rather sad, given that Danish agriculture with Agriculture & Food has chosen to set up a climate ambition which is considerably more ambitious than the government's own. I really wish that the government chose to listen a little more to agriculture in this context. Instead of asking: what can we do? What can we do to get further in Denmark? It is not because Denmark has to go unrealistically far in relation to the rest of the world, but because Denmark has a special obligation. We are one of the countries in the world that has the largest emissions per year. That is why we have to deliver something more per capita, which is why we also have to deliver something more per capita. In fact, we need to be able to invest in the next four years. SF has suggested that we should have a climate account and that all Danes should help to increase the ambition in terms of biogas, which is one of the places where we are going to experience a decline in investment when this energy agreement expires and we are going to get on with the new one because there is too little money set aside. Of course, you can do something about efficiency and also the way you offer, but biogas is an essential part of our future energy system if we want to get rid of natural gas. And we need to get rid of the natural gas... it needs to be taken over by biogas and other green gases. Another element on which SF would like to use our climate account is energy savings. This applies both to energy savings in ordinary households and to public buildings. That's the part about how we can make it even better compared to insulation, better windows, better pumps to get the material around. And that's good for us, because the more energy savings we make, the less new energy we need to invest in. It's kind of self-sustaining. So we have great ambitions in terms of energy savings and will therefore also ensure that the Danes can borrow for some of the energy savings that they find a little difficult to afford. Because investing in energy savings makes sense in a normal household economy, but the problem is that there is often no money for it, and certainly not in the areas where money is difficult to borrow around the country. So that's part of what our climate account is for. A third part relates, among other things, to the fact that we would like to see more sun. We could easily imagine solar fields, or that for that matter we saw more roofs filled with solar cells in the future. Then we have proposed that, in connection with our climate account, we also need to talk about a plan for phasing out coal and oil in the industry, and that is to switch to electricity, to biogas and other green gases, because we need to become more ambitious. Last, but not least, is part of our plan for a climate account that we would like to see more farmland transferred to forest. For some of what we know, bone out quite quickly compared to the Danish CO2 2 We have to get up to a different level of ambition. Much has happened in the field of energy because, fortunately, we have an opposition that has succeeded in pushing this government to be a little more ambitious than it wants. The government would so much like to take credit for it afterwards and walk around with green ties or green suits... peace be with it... but we all know that it had never been done without a persistent opposition. However, we need Denmark to be more ambitious, and even more must be done. I hope that this can happen after the elections. I do not know whether this is our last debate in the Parliamentary Assembly with each other, but if it is, I would say that it is actually a pleasure that we have an energy reconciliation that is so wide and involves all the parties of the Folketing, so that we can deliver some results at times, which we have no doubt will also become something afterwards. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption which we have been involved in presenting and which the Social Democrat rapporteur has mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503115815	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There are no brief comments, and then we have come to the conclusion that it is now the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503115831	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for a good debate. If you listen to the debate, you can listen to the fact that we are beginning to approach a parliamentary election. And today, contrary to the debates on energy policy in the last three years, it may well be felt that the parties must now mark themselves and that we are approaching, that we must meet the electorate. When I look at the energy policy and climate policy of the last four years here in the Danish Parliament, I am actually pleased with the large number of things that have been implemented, and I am particularly delighted that we could make such a broad agreement on energy policy. Indeed, we were in the situation that even the Enhedslisten and the Alternative had to go out in a tough fight to become part of the Energy Agreement and thank you for that. I think it provides assurance that the energy policy that has now been laid down with the energy agreement is also a policy that lasts for many years in the future. As several speakers have said, there are many who would like to take credit for it. I feel as a minister that I am delighted to have succeeded in bringing together the whole of the Danish Parliament on this agreement, so that at the same time we can ensure both a green transition and keep track of the state finances. The agreement establishes three offshore wind farms until 2030. We have an ambition to expand with additional sun and wind in competition with each other, and that is something new. Here we had to make an agreement alone with the Danish People's Party. I was happy about that in terms of sun and wind exposure, and there we have got the price down on an average of 2.27 cents per year. kilowatt-time, and this cannot be attributed solely to the efforts of the government and the Danish People's Party; it is also the result of massive technology development that has made such a low price possible. We are continuing in relation to energy savings and energy efficiency. I also welcome the agreement on research and development and demonstration of energy technologies, because we agree here too to increase the money we spend on research and development in this area. So when I look at the four years of energy policy, the abolition of the PRS tax and the climate and air emissions, I actually think that we have moved Denmark quite well in the green area over the last four years. We have done so in respect of the fact that there is also an economy that must be linked. And I must also just say that in the years in which I have been in office and had the humble task of leading the climate-energy and supply area as minister, Denmark has in one study after another been voted the top in terms of green conversion, just as we were in the previous four years when there was a S-led government. After all, I chose to welcome the results, and there I can see that the opposition may have a little more difficulty, even on a day like this, in welcoming the fact that Danish energy policy is actually going very well. Thank you for the debate, thanks for 4 years of good cooperation, one can say now, with all the parties in the Danish Parliament about green transition, and thank you for your great commitment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120155	There are just a few brief comments before you can perhaps draw a conclusion. In any case, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120201	Thank you. I hope that I will be able to have a consultation with the Minister on Tuesday on Viking Link, but we do not quite know. So I understand that the Minister is trying to round it off as if this is the end of four years of work as energy minister. That's fair enough. But I hope that we will have another loop on Tuesday of the next week. I note that some sort of state of emergency has been decided in England for the climate in order, as well as to address the fact that we are faced with exceptionally serious problems. I am well aware that this does not lead to any concrete action so far, but there is a call from England to other countries to take it up and take it so seriously that it is said, as it were, that there is reason to take this even more seriously. The state of emergency may sound a little violent, but the recommendations of the experts show that this is actually the case. I would like to hear the Minister, and now it is just an energy policy statement, but is there no need for us to do something significantly more to take these climate problems seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120309	Thank you for the question. I am also looking forward to Tuesday and hope that we will have another good discussion on Viking Link and other aspects of energy policy. The government takes the climate challenge very seriously. There should be no doubt about that, but I also note with the statement made by the United Nations Climate Panel this summer that they say quite clearly and clearly that action is needed, but that there is still time to act in, and that if you get the whole world involved and make an effort, then there is also an opportunity to deal with the serious consequences of climate change and keep the temperature rise of 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120352	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120354	So it wasn't an undertaking that Denmark would be in this climate martial state. Then we must take it as part of the election campaign and part of the initiatives that come on the other side of the election. There's one number I'm really worried about. We are faced globally with huge export opportunities for Denmark in terms of energy technology, and there is every reason why the curves that have been, like should be increasing, and I have noted that they are not rising. I don't want to talk down exports, but I just think we have a huge export potential. Can the Minister not see that we have a problem in that, in the situation we are facing now, when we have global export opportunities, we do not have an export which is significantly increasing, with what we can do in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120438-2	When I look at the export of energy equipment over a number of years, I have to say that it has actually been quite rapidly increasing. We have over a 20-year period gone from having an export of 25 billion. kr. to now have an export of the order of 80 billion. kr. It goes up a little, and it goes down a little, but still away with a markedly increasing trend. With the Energy Agreement and, moreover, together with the Enhedslisten, we set aside between 150 million. kr. and 200 million kr. to increase export income, no, not export income, hopefully it too, but export efforts and thus the possibility of making green solutions visible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120522	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120525	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister and thank you for the debate. The Minister says that it is evidently difficult for the opposition to enjoy the results we have achieved. To that I would say that it is not at all, but if I am to draw one, can one say, conclusion from the two proposals for adoption that we have today, one from the government and the Danish People's Party and one from the opposition, it is of course that the text of the government and the Danish People's Party talks a great deal about what we have so that if the minister is not only to talk about what he has done now we are faced with an election campaign... can the Minister not say where it is he thinks it should be turned up, or whether he is supporting the three points we are pointing to from the opposition, where it should at least be raised?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120625	Thank you for the question. Now, of course, it is an energy policy statement for 2018 that we are discussing here today, and that is why it is natural that a proposal for adoption also addresses this issue, but I have seen that all my good colleagues from the blue bloc have today also pointed out that we are prepared to increase the level of ambition as well. I believe that it was Mikkel Dencker of the Danish People's Party who pointed to the willingness to look at further expansion of sea winds if the price came down sufficiently. So I see that there is a strong desire, at least in the area of climate change, to increase the level of ambition also in the blue bloc and also in the governing parties. With the energy agreement, I think we have taken a very good, very good start and I think it is natural that, on a day like this, we welcome the very ambitious energy agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120715	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120717	We can easily welcome everything we have done; we just have to recognise that that is not enough. We are not going to solve the problems of what we have, therefore, it can be said that, since the Minister does not want to write in a proposal for adoption, or the governing parties do not write what they want, one might fear that it is because they do not want to be hung up on it. In the same vein, one might ask why we could not vote on Tuesday on the Climate Act, which nearly 70 000 citizens have signed, and where they actually have a right to know before the elections that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament who dares to lay their hands on the hot plate, dares to commit themselves to the fact that we will have ambitious reductions in all sectors. I am surprised that the governing parties and the minister do not think that we should have voted it home on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120812	Thank you for the question. There are very many positive elements in the citizens' proposal. This is also the reason why we have now started work to present a new proposal for a Climate Act in the autumn. That is also why we have had a couple of citizens' meetings, and that is also why we have taken the initiative for a citizens' hearing in the autumn. When the parties chose to ask for further investigations, it is because we need to be sure that what we are voting for, we can also vouch for the fact that it is both legal and economically viable. That doesn't mean we're not ready for it. It may well be that over the next few weeks we will have it completed and will have to look at the issues that are and that we will also be able to deal with the citizens' proposal here in the Folketing before a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503120903	Thank you. A moment ago, the Minister replied to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said that the UN's one-and-a-half report said that there is still time. And I would say that I think is a critical way of reading that report. I read the report so that we can still reach 1.5 degrees if we really give the full screw now so not what we've seen the government do in the last 4 years, but a significantly increased effort throughout the world. We have chosen to say from the alternative: we are addressing something very special that the economic wise men have already proposed, namely to pre-tax some of the pension funds. That is a very small proportion, and that gives us 4 billion. kr. to a very ambitious effort over the next four years. And there I think that the interpretation of the one-and-a-half-degree report that the Minister makes here is tendentious. Why shouldn't we have a much stronger effort right now? And why has so much been turned down for, among others. the research area during the period during which the Minister has been at the helm?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121008	We are prepared to constantly step up our efforts, and if this is to be lifted, it is no use doing anything alone in Denmark. Then it is an effort that we must make in the European Union to raise the level of ambition there and also to raise the level of ambition in the world. It is a goal that we have set together with the Alternative that Denmark should be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. That helps to ensure that we reach the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121034	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121036	Being climate neutral by 2050 is what the whole world has agreed that the whole world should. So it is not ambitious in itself. I would just like to say that I actually read an interview yesterday at Zetland with the Minister for Finance, where he actually regrets that research funds for energy have been cut and that he would have liked a different priority to be given. Is it also the view of the government, is it the view of the Minister that it was a pity that as much was turned down as was done at the beginning, in order to turn it up as quietly as possible? And is the billion you turn up in 2024 even enough? If you read the climate bill, it is in the order of 4-5 billion. kr. A year they're up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121116	First of all, on climate neutrality by 2050, the alternative has also reached an agreement on this. It's part of the energy agreement. I did not see the alternative fighting for it to be earlier, and it also says 2050 at the latest. And as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has pointed out today, we would like it to happen before 2050. When this government came to power in 2015, we looked down into a finance bill, which was a big hole in it. We had to fill the gap and solve the economic challenge there was. Everyone had to bear it in mind, and to be honest, I would like to say that I would have liked to have seen us avoid the saving in energy research. I am so pleased and satisfied that we have been able to increase the level over recent years and that we have reached an energy policy agreement to reach 1 billion. kr. I was also sorry when the former SR-led government back in 2011 chose to make a big cut in energy research when they came in. Under the bourgeois government it was on the other side of 1 billion. kr., and that's when the SR government started cutting back. That's boring. And I was even more or just as sad when, in order to get things to vote, we took some money from there. It's a good area to spend money on. Research and development are sensible in order to achieve energy and climate objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121227	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday, 7 May 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121247	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503121319	Thank you very much. With the motion for a resolution that we are now considering, the proposers will require the government to put forward a legislative proposal for the establishment of a centre for the development of democracy and citizen involvement. The reason for this proposal, according to the proposers, is that, despite a high turnout, our democracy is under pressure. In fact, I am not sure that I agree that our democracy as such is under pressure. As the authors also mention, we have a tradition of very high turnout compared with other countries. This applies both to elections to the Folketing, but in fact also to elections to both municipal and regional councils. In 2016, Denmark became the world champion in elections, as Denmark in an international survey was at the top of the list of countries that are good at holding elections. The survey included 180 presidential and parliamentary elections held in 139 countries during the period 2012-2015. Actually, I think we can be proud of that. Having said that, it is of course important that we continue to focus on developing our democracy. It is also an important tool for involving and engaging citizens that we continue to look for new opportunities for citizen involvement where it makes sense. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. Nor do I believe that many people disagree with the fact that today's challenge is to create a framework that invites citizens to become more involved politically as well. This applies especially to young people who traditionally vote less than the rest of the population. That is why I also agree with the proposers that it is important for us in Denmark to continue researching and experimenting with new models of democracy development and citizen involvement. However, when the government is unable to support the resolution as it stands, it hangs, among other things. together with the fact that already today there are the opportunities to research and develop new opportunities for democracy, including new opportunities for citizen involvement that are needed. It is also the government's view that democracy development and citizen involvement are best developed in local interaction with citizens where the need is. Although the government agrees with the proposers that democracy and citizen involvement are an important focus area, the government does not therefore consider that a centrally located centre is needed, which among other things. to act as a research institution. I will give examples of the development of democracy and the involvement of citizens in universities, in local authorities and from the centre. As far as university research is concerned, I can, for example. state that on 28 March the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior agreed with the Finance Committee that the Ministry could grant a grant of DKK 150,000. to the Department of Political Science at the University of Copenhagen to co-finance a study of the turnout in the 2019 parliamentary elections, which is held by election researcher and Professor Kasper Møller Hansen. As another example, I can tell you that we in the Ministry have asked VIVE to carry out a study on the government of the municipalities. The study shall include: provide an overview of existing knowledge about committee and other forms of governance. The study should illustrate the way in which governance is carried out for different reasons, such as: political leadership and a clear position of responsibility. The study will also include a questionnaire survey and interviews in 12 of the country's municipalities to uncover experience with the committee. Thus, democracy research is already being carried out at the Danish research institutions, and universities as independent institutions can choose to give further priority if they consider that there is a need. The local authorities also have a strong focus today on the involvement of citizens and the development of democracy. During these years, many municipalities rethink the whole citizen involvement agenda and take on new paths in order to create policy in cooperation with citizens. In recent years, it has become possible for quite a lot of municipalities to have citizens-driven proposals on the city council agenda, for example. in the municipality of Allerød, where such a proposal has been adopted, as well as in Frederikshavn, Esbjerg, Næstved and Middelfart, to name but a few. In Odder Municipality, where it is a two-year experimental scheme, you can even submit citizens' proposals and sign them even when you are 15 years old because the municipality wants to engage the young people. In the autumn of 2018, Aalborg Municipality started a vision project in collaboration with the Danish Board of Technology, where the municipality asked the citizens how they saw Aalborg today and in the future. The project included, among other things: a number of workshops with some of the citizens' groups that do not often speak up. That was among other things. citizens who stayed in the rooms, newcomers who went to the language centre, busy families with children in day care institutions, older citizens at activity centres and young people in the student house. On 30 January this year, the City of Copenhagen also held the Copenhagen Conference for 200 of the Municipality's citizens in cooperation with the Danish Board of Technology. At the Copenhagen Conference, the municipality wanted to examine when involvement is good and whether there are special methods that work better than others. It should provide inspiration for a new framework for the involvement of Copenhageners in the future. The municipalities are therefore each in the process of developing and testing the model that suits their own municipality, because it is not certain that one's model of citizen involvement and local democracy fits in all 98 municipalities. Furthermore, there is already a broad framework for how municipalities can choose to organise themselves in the choice of governance or to increase the use of temporary advisory committees with citizens' participation, which the municipalities are also aware of. From a central point of view, too, there is a focus on democracy development and citizen involvement. It is quite obvious to mention the school elections, which the Danish Parliament Bureau and the Minister for Education made a recurring event every two years in the country's primary schools, and which, in my view, is in every way a huge success for our democracy. The school elections were last held on 31 January of this year, and nearly 80,000 pupils from the 8th-10 classes of the country were given the opportunity to vote in a test election to the Folketing. And the fact that the school elections have then emerged from a proposal from the Election Court Commission, of which I myself was a member, and which DUF reduced in 2010, of course makes me no less enthusiastic about the success. It is also worth mentioning, in my view, that Parliament has just made the system of citizens' proposals in the Folketing permanent. Since it was implemented on 24 January last year, the scheme has meant that five citizens' proposals have found their way to the Parliamentary Chamber, and I think that helps to show that there is something to be done about it. For although we have not yet adopted a citizens' proposal in the Folketing, the subject has been put on the political agenda. It is also being debated in the media and has been given a focus that had not otherwise been given, and I really think we should welcome that, because it is important. In my own ministerial area, I would like to point out that, by means of a legislative amendment last year, individual municipal councils were given the opportunity to issue binding municipal referendums on a matter in the municipality. Each municipal council therefore has the opportunity to consult the electorate and to be bound by the outcome. Such a binding municipal referendum has not yet been held, but the Ministry finds that there is a great deal of interest from the municipalities. In my opinion, this new democratic tool is a fine addition to the other democratic tools of the municipality. I mention all these diverse examples because there are already many opportunities for research into the development of democracy and the development of new opportunities for citizen involvement. I believe that it is best developed locally in conjunction with the citizens where the need is. The many different initiatives taken across the country are also good proof of this. To this extent, I understand the proposers' desire to bring together knowledge and good experience of democracy development and citizen involvement in one place. In my opinion, there is only a risk that what should inspire innovation in our democracy and the way we involve citizens locally may have the opposite effect. Because as soon as central involvement, so to speak, is formalised, there may be a risk that local authorities may be based on the central provision and, therefore, to a lesser extent locally based on what might be a good idea. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution on this basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122149	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122154	Thank you and thank the Minister for also mentioning all the fantastic examples of how to work with citizen involvement around Denmark. One could also make a very, very long list if you put on the international glasses and see what they are doing elsewhere, from which we could also be inspired, just as we were in the context of a citizens' proposal in which the model we have used is directly inspired by Finland. That is why I would like to hear a clarification of this: it will centralise the fact that it will destroy citizen involvement, that it will create a centre that can actually work with development, knowledge and knowledge sharing in this area. How is it that the minister thinks it can centralize everything? After all, I am thinking of good state institutions such as Mindlab, which were also created as a think tank and which helped to develop and be innovative in its field. So can the Minister please elaborate on the centralization fear that was expressed here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122254	I am sorry that I had not also written a paragraph on international experience, because of course the questioner is quite right in saying that this could have been included. Because there are plenty of things to be inspired of, and I would have completed all the time available, so I could of course have had the opportunity to do so. What I mentioned was a number of examples of how we have also done it in the municipalities, where we have tried locally to take the opportunities that exist and developed it with the citizens and the associations that are in each municipality. There I think it is quite good that it can flourish in this way around, and that solutions can also be found in Odder, which they think is good, and in Copenhagen, which they think is good, and in Frederikshavn, which they think is good, and so on. What you can be afraid of is if somebody like to sit and be the ones who have to inspire everyone to do something, so they're the ones who say to reach, okay, we imagine that you can do it in these three ways, and that everyone then sits and chooses among the three ways, instead of letting the creativity come from below. Indeed, creativity is one of the things that the questioner usually places great emphasis on, and I do so in relation to some of this. So that was the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122403	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122404	Yes, and something that the questioner also attaches importance to is also knowledge sharing, for example. So what does the Minister think about all the good suggestions from Aalborg, Odder and Allerød etc. that we get a good knowledge sharing about how it is that this has been done around the country... the good experiences and bad experiences... so that we can also inspire each other and thus help to develop this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122430	If the knowledge sharing is not good enough, I would like to state here that at least the Ministry can facilitate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122438	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122441	The last point I would like to make is a little interesting, after all. Because if you do not want centralisation, it is not the ministries that have to pick up on it here, at least, and it is not unknown that knowledge centres are some that do not in themselves become governing what is going to happen out there, but that they are just making sure that they systematically pick up on experience. There are a lot of good things going on, thank God, but it is not certain that as municipalities you also have the resources to pick up the experiences and compare them with each other etc. So I need to clarify how things stand in the way that things can also grow from below, and whether the Minister cannot see that there is indeed a need for good initiatives to be evaluated and disseminated more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122538	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122539	But now it is not the case that nothing is happening at all. I think some of the questions sound like we are discussing this in an empty room, where nothing has happened in advance, except that some municipalities are doing a little good, and it is nice that they are doing it, and they should be praised for that. But it is also the case that the Technology Council Fund has a job, I think I mentioned that too, and that VIVE has a job, I think I mentioned that too. Well, there are a number of things going on in this area already, and sometimes you just have to be careful that you don't build extra blocks to build extra blocks. That, in fact, is just the point of view I am referring to. I think it is important that we constantly develop democracy, and I think it is good that we develop democracy as much as we do, both locally and also nationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122623	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122625	Well, one of the points of this center is to actually organize what's going on in advance. There's plenty of decisions we make inside this Parliament, which doesn't start from scratch, but actually builds on good things going on around here. However, it is actually part of the point that it is not a centre that should be a ministry that centrally controls the democratic processes out there, but a centre that undertakes to involve and involve and in itself be cohesive. Can't the Minister see a point in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122659-2	The problem is that you can always set up new public institutions if that is what you want. I just think there should be a specific reason for doing so, and I do not think it is so clear here, to put it that way. There is already research into democracy and citizen involvement, as I mentioned, in the VIVE and the Technology Council Foundation. In addition, it is also true that with the agreement on the allocation of the research reserve in 2019, we set aside no less than 49.3 million. kr. to the Danish Free Research Foundation for distributions under the theme People and society. So there are lots of things going on in this area, and I sometimes think that you should try to focus on how to support the things that are happening and enjoy the things that are happening, and also make sure that you prioritise what we have done together, and that is wonderful, instead of just creating new public institutions. I don't think that's necessarily the answer to everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122752	We thank the Minister. Then we will begin the series of rapporteurs, and we will do so with Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503122803	I have been in here for many years and have seen how the development of democracy has moved from the fact that we were overwhelmed by a great many school classes who had the time and the money to come in here, to the fact that it has become a little less, even though many still come away. It is impossible to know whether this is the last rapporteur's speech I will make or whether I am also holding what I have on Thursday next week, but it cannot be better for someone who has been in here for 21 years than to have a talk about democracy. So I am actually really glad that I am able to say that this time it seems that we as a party support the proposal, because you have adapted it. So thank you very much for the fact that this resolution has now been discussed and we will reach it in this session. It's very quiet in here today. I do not know if it is silence before the storm, but one can almost feel the sound that something moves, but it certainly does not move in this Chamber. It is true that we are facing some challenges, not just in relation to the forthcoming elections. I think we are facing some democratic challenges. Do we have an elite that we have started to talk about in Denmark, who cares for democracy alone, and how small is that elite in relation to our population? So we are challenged on democracy, and we cannot leave that to chance alone. It was really good if there were grassroots movements from below that made it grow. But all other things being equal, we have a good starting point for discussing democracy. We have a high turnout, as the Minister has just said, and we have fifth place on the list of the most democratic countries, and all Danish citizens of authority have equal access to vote on paper. It is now a very few who do not have access to it. Then we have some new initiatives: we have both the Youth Parliament and we have the Politician for one day, and it is of course popular. I am also successful in making pre-visits at the school when there are school classes coming in here, just like giving them the democracy part, and then they can get a light version on the culture in here so that they get both-and-a-half. It's not just boring being a politician. It's actually exciting and fun, but there are some practical things that we have to deal with very soberly. Then we have the school elections and we have the Youth Parliament, as I have mentioned, and it is good that there is a minister who remembers when it started. In fact, we also had another minister who could tell us that he had been a student in here for a Youth Parliament. So we have good traditions for developing democracy, but do we have good traditions for bringing more people along? When I became an active politician, there were a lot of people in the political parties. So it has fallen considerably. If I just look at my own large municipality, 20 years ago we were almost 1,000 members of my own party in the old Vejle Municipality. Now we are not 700 members of the Grand Commune. So something is happening, and then we need people to be held responsible for participating in democracy, because you have in a society based on democracy and community, not just rights that you have obligations. And we must not cling to democratic development. After all, we see the big difference: the short-educated, the socially vulnerable and the Danes with an immigrant background participate significantly less than the rest of the population. In a society where diversity is becoming more and more everyday, it is important that everyone is involved in democracy. No one can pull out a free ticket you can't get off the responsibility of the community and make it a more equal society, and that's what we as Social Democrats are working for, so we have to make politics and democracy more accessible to everyone. Otherwise, equal access to the ballot box will be something we are talking about, but not something that we translate into action. Fortunately, increasing accessibility to politics and democracy is included in the motion for a resolution when we talk about strengthening and extending democracy and when we talk about involving those people who are today least represented in the parliamentary system. These are important tasks, which is why we, as a Social Democrat, support the proposal and welcome it as it has been put forward today. We could not support a similar proposal in 2014 because the proposal at that time had some more concrete wording on economics, location, and organisation. It is more open now, and it may be that the building we have across the street here can also be used for that. We have projects to extend precisely to the development of democracy there. Now the proposal has been adapted and we see many possibilities in it, which is why we support it both now and after elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123306	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123310	I would just like to thank Mrs Karen J. Klint for her efforts in the service of the people's regime, with whom I have had great pleasure sitting together on the Committee on Bodily Rights. I think that the rapporteur is an example of an excellent politician who gets a lot of work done and lives by the slogan that it is the most amazing thing that can be done if you do not take credit for it yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123335	I think it should be seen as a praise. So it was very classy. Thank you to Mrs Karen J. Klint. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party, who has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123350	You don't have to spend many hours at the public meeting on Bornholm until you hear a desire for more citizen involvement several times. The municipalities are talking about Municipality 3.0, where the citizen is not seen as a client or user, but as a partner. Everywhere in Western society it is known that the major challenges of society such as climate, energy, health and global food supply cannot be solved without better interaction between citizens and experts, companies and politicians. Referendums, yellow vests and low support for political parties reveal a lack of confidence. Close democracy has become less close, the European Union is seen as far away, and social media are creating echo chambers. But the good news is that there is a great desire to participate in democracy in civil society. It has been demonstrated time and time again that citizens want to contribute to citizen involvement and co-creation, and that it gives rise to ideas, insight and understanding between politicians and citizens. The proposal we are debating today is very similar to a proposal that we discussed here in the Things back in 2015. Basically, the proposal is very sympathetic. It is good to seek development in citizen involvement and democracy. We need to do everything we can to activate citizens' commitment to society, increase democratic understanding and fundamentally strengthen democracy. The proposal describes the establishment of a new centre with the aim of working to link citizen involvement to political decision-making processes, researching experimenting with new models and methods, using and testing methods in concrete projects and giving Denmark a position on the front that develops democracy and improves the representation of some sections of the population. In this way there is nothing in the proposal that we in the Danish People's Party in and out do not agree with. However, the proposal raises some very important questions as to how such a centre should be set up. To begin with what it should not look like, it would be inappropriate if it ended up with an office in the Ministry of the Interior or in the administration of the Danish Parliament. This was clear even when we dealt with the proposal from Uffe Elbæk in 2015. As I recall, most people in here at the time thought that it should not end up in a closed office and some research heavy, but that it should benefit others than the Folketing. At that time, we also discussed a great deal about the fact that there were very strong competences within the Board of Technology on which we should really build. The Research Committee's report agreed on the need, and a model with the Technology Council was sought out. In fact, in the Danish Board of Technology we have a body which has a long experience of precisely creating citizen involvement and thereby democratic development. And the Board of Technology is still alive, although it has now been transformed into a fund on the basis of the decision we made here in the Things in 2011 to remove their subsidies. The Foundation has many years of experience in cooperating with the Danish Parliament, is internationally recognised and has been an inspiration for establishing similar councils in many European countries. In addition to the Danish Technology Council, we have a number of experts, among others. at universities, in municipalities and in organisations and consultancy companies. Those resources are necessarily also something that needs to be brought into play through cooperation between practitioners, researchers and experts. That is why the centre should be designed in a way that promotes cooperation. Would it be possible to envisage as an alternative to the proposal a member-based organisation set up under the auspices of the Board of Technology? This could give ownership to organisations that want to develop their democratic processes. The organisation itself would become democratic and inclusive. It is the Members themselves who have the greatest insight into their own needs. The necessary competences and years of experience in collaboration between practitioners and researchers will be present from day one, and experience will be available from the outset in cooperation with politicians, both in the organisation's membership and in government and parliament. The Board of Technology has more than 30 years of experience in advising and servicing policy makers. Finally, it will be an amazing resource to be able to connect a number of organisations within a membership group that would have the opportunity to carry out a large-scale involvement in Denmark, for example. up to referendums. It is therefore my hope and that of the Danish People's Party that, in the light of this debate today, we can follow it up with a report in which we can gather the intentions and point to a direction for further work. Because with the model described in the proposal, the Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution as it stands, but, as I have said, we would very much like to work on a report if we can achieve it before we have an election. Otherwise, we'll have to take it on the other side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123808	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Then the rapporteur of the Left, I assume. Yeah. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has to wait a minute. It is the rapporteur of the Left; it is the rapporteur of the Left; it is the rapporteur of the Left; it is the rapporteur of the Left; it is the rapporteur of the Left; it is the But it's perfectly permissible to get thirsty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503123829	It is also permitted to change parties. There's always room for one more in the left. That is true of everyone, certainly. I would like to thank the alternative, and I would also like to thank it more broadly, because I think that the alternative has been good at providing ideas on how we can promote democratic participation in Danish society. We do not necessarily agree with all the proposals, but I think there have been many thought-provoking, innovative proposals; so what we have here today, which is another alternative idea, we could call it, how we believe and hope that we can promote citizen involvement in political decision-making processes. We do not support the idea of setting up a centre, as the Alternative points out. First of all, we do not do so because we in the Left believe it is important that we take that responsibility on our part in the established political parties. We do that to the best of our ability in my party by among others. be actively seeking to recruit members and thereby establish dialogue on how members can contribute to policy development. We also do so in a great many inter-political networks, including among the youth parties, where the Danish Youth Council has a democracy commission. This is a very strong initiative. And then there are continuous meetings and events with stakeholders, where the public meeting on Bornholm, which will take place soon enough, is probably the most colourful event that has really made a lot of people come to the island. It's not Djøf Distortion, as some call it. It's a public meeting. We have a strong democracy in Denmark, at least if we compare ourselves with other countries. We best safeguard this by working purposefully in the parties to ensure that we continue to have a strong democracy. Because it doesn't come by itself. And no government without people. So thank you to the alternative for having raised the debate, but unfortunately we cannot support the resolution itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124044	Thank you. It gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124047	First of all, of course, thank you for the words. And that is something that we have been very concerned about since the beginning. There's something I'm a little curious about. The rapporteur mentions the fact that the parties have to work on this. But it is a little bit about whether the rapporteur also sees a role for people in democracy who do not necessarily choose to be a member of a party. When we look at the trend in membership figures in general in the parties, we see that it is not really flashy and growing. It is a very small proportion of the population who are involved. So how does the rapporteur see that we can also work in a more determined way to get all the citizens involved who do not think the parties are right? You also meet a lot of people who say that they agree with the Left on this point and with the alternative on this point and with the Enhedslisten on this point, etc. So what is the role of all the citizens who want to be involved and participate in democracy, but not necessarily in the parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124145	Well, that's a great question, and I don't have time to answer it. Now I have 57 seconds. But I suggest that we sit together after the elections and have a very good discussion about it. Because that's a very interesting question. My own thesis is that in these years we are increasingly seeing citizens opting out of parties where perhaps previously elected parties were elected. In the past, you looked at who you were most in agreement with, and then joined that party at best, or at least you were an active and faithful supporter of that party. Now it is as if a great many voters opt out of a party. If there is a single opinion from a single politician with which one disagrees, one will never vote for the party in question again. I am asked about this: you are the reason why I cannot vote on the Left. Then I just feel like: Sorry, there are quite a lot of others you could vote for; you can't opt out of a whole party because you disagree with me. Unfortunately, however, this is a challenge we face and how we can solve it, I do not know. I can only say that the parties and the whole of the approach to politics that we represent are important, so that it is not just special interests where one can agree that we should now have done something about the environment or the norms of the day institutions or a third good subject, but that we should have this overall approach to politics, which we in the parties are all equal in all things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124310	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124311	Now I didn't know it could happen that you disagreed with Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen, but thank you for your answer. And yes, I should perhaps have made a footnote stating that, of course, I did not expect a full and complete answer to such a big question, but it was actually to throw the question out. This is one of the challenges we face. When you look at how many percent of the population are actually members and when you look at how many of the members of the parties are engaged, it is not flashy. This is one of the challenges that we have, as the parties are the cornerstones of the kind of democracy we have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124346	No, it's not flashy. On the contrary, it is on the way down. There's about 3%. of the population who are members of a political party. And when I'm around Left meetings, I see that there are a lot of people who have both more gray hair and less of it than I have and others. But that's a condition. Can we turn things around? I hope so. And I hope that we do not have to go in the situation where we have to have each man his own party, but that some room can also be found in the established parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124424	Now I do not know whether we are going to review each other's appearance while we are waiting for the elections, I would say to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. However, there are no more brief comments, so we will move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Jan E. Jørgensen With even less hair! ) Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124440	Let's go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen don't be naughty! I agree that in Denmark we have in many ways a strong democracy and popular rule; we have universal suffrage. It sounds quite natural, but it is not in many parts of the world. And that is really the most important thing to have as a population, namely the right to freely put together a Parliament, which then appoints a government. We have a high turnout and we have a low threshold so that citizens who do not feel politically represented can shape new parties and come in here. And it happens over and over again. It also challenges democracy, and we see this in these days when a new party has been set up, which uses all the possibilities of democracy to destroy it as the Weekendavise puts it today in the leadership position by breaking down a central part of it, namely the equal treatment of citizens, and which will make fundamental differences between people on the basis of who their grandparents are. These are views that we have not had in this Parliament for many, many years. And this is also a time when democracy has to show its strength, not by restricting it or by restricting freedoms, but by the Weekendavisen also writes today to meet the monster in open battle, just as we have before in our history. And one of the ways to make our democracy stronger is to show that we believe in our democracy, that we dare to develop it, that we dare to make it even more inclusive and even more close to our citizens. For the dissatisfaction that can manifest in ways that I find sad and unfortunate can also be about people who feel that they are no longer adequately represented. And that's one of them. This proposal is also about this. The aim of the proposal is to establish a kind of engine for the development of democracy and citizen involvement in a centre that will provide various analyses and ideas and experiments on how to involve more citizens in an inclusive, democratic society. These may be a number of concrete proposals: could we, as has been done in some countries, more open up a discussion on local budgets, perhaps even the Finance Act? Could referendums be used more locally or nationally? How can you use the digital tools that have arrived? There are also even more radical proposals that have been made, among others. of some of these power elite scientists, about using more lottery draws to involve people who are otherwise not involved. Could one imagine, as they propose, a citizen's thing next to the Folketing, where members were drawn by lot, inspired by democracy in ancient Greece? I also think it is important to discuss another element: the idea of trying to create greater representation for some of the groups in society that are poorly represented. Because although we have a good democracy, we are still a long way from a democracy that reflects the people in its entirety both locally and nationally. If we look at gender, women are still badly under-represented, especially in local politics. If we look at class backgrounds or educational backgrounds, we increasingly have a problem in the Folketing, where we who sit in here are more and more similar. They are people who have taken long higher education; they are people who typically live in owner-occupied housing. There are fewer people from the general housing sector; fewer people have unskilled or skilled jobs. And it is clear that it creates blind spots... not so to understand that we cannot get to grips with other people's lives and problems, because we can, fortunately, be an empathetic species, but of course you can understand challenges you know from your own life more easily. And that is why it is so important that we have a broad representation in here in terms of educational background, class, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, etc. etc. That is why I think it is an important proposal and it would be good to set up such a centre. And it is really positive that the Social Democrats are open to it, because it suggests that it can become a reality if the election results come out, as the polls suggest. Because democracy must be alive and it must be developing. It's never something we're done developing. This is something that is constantly moving.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124941	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then we have reached Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503124954	Thank you, President. Do we really have a problem with our democracy in one way or another? If it limps, is it under pressure, and how do you even make it up? If you look at the formal aspects of democracy first, you see that there is a very high turnout when we hold elections, and the prerequisites for a real democratic electoral process are there; we have freedom of expression, free expression of opinion, free press, all those conditions which must be there, so that you can say that you have a real democracy. We are on the eve of a parliamentary election where 13 parties are entitled to stand for election, we have a very open parliament, and I think that most colleagues can nod to the fact that when we receive guests from abroad, they are quite impressed by how freely available politicians are that it is as open to the press as there is in our Parliament etc. So when you look at the framework, that is, the formal expression of our democracy, and when you look at Denmark from abroad, it is hard to conclude anything other than that we have a strong and solid democracy in Denmark. Nevertheless, the proposers are right that there are some signs that are drawing in the other direction. It has been mentioned by others that the parties have very few members. That is true, but, on the other hand, there has never been greater participation in the life of free association, and it is also a kind of commitment to society. When you ask the Danes how credible they judge different professional groups to be, we do not exactly score the elected representatives full album. The same applies to journalists, who are also, in some way, important players in democracy. That is why I believe that this is where we must start when we need to safeguard and develop our democracy and develop the democratic dialogue, starting with ourselves. There I would like to give a very large cadeau to the alternative, because I think the alternative is very good at that. In the alternative, all kinds of new formats are tested in order to spread the democratic conversation to more citizens, and when you look at the number of members of the alternative, there is also much to suggest that we others have something to learn from the way the party is run the alternative. The alternative was also behind it, I think, very good idea of citizens' proposals that the Liberal Alliance has supported from the very beginning. It is true that none of them have yet been adopted, but it has put some things on the agenda which have been of concern to a large group of citizens. So sometimes we also have to praise each other across parties, and I would like to sign for it, because I think that the alternative really makes a difference in relation to the development of democracy in Denmark. Should we then support that movement by setting up a centre, as proposed in the motion for a resolution here? I think we should start somewhere else, because I think we should start with ourselves, as I said before, and the lucky thing is that we are on the eve of a parliamentary election, and somehow I think that all of us elected representatives, who are going to have to go into a democratic battle in a few days' time, should look into each other's eyes and promise each other that we are going to debate in a proper way, that we are going to answer honestly the questions we are being asked, that we are going to go into a debate with those who want to talk to us, intend us to make ourselves available to the press, intend us to give honest answers, are going to say what we think, are going to present visions for Denmark, etc. etc., because I think that's where it's limping. As I tried to explain, there is no indication that it is the institutional part of democracy that it is wrong with, because it is actually going very well. On the other hand, we are not doing so well in assessing us and our efforts, and that is why I think that is where we should start. But I would like to sign off on the proposal, and I would also like to sign off on the commitment of the proposers to the development of democracy and democratic dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503125400	We thank Mrs Christina Egelund. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, and it is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503125408	Thank you. At meetings and on the streets and on social media I often hear statements like: Politicians don't listen anyway, my voices don't matter in the big context, I can't identify with any of those who should represent me, who are too far for those who decide. We may think it unfair and unfair that such a statement should be made here, but nevertheless it is the experience. We have a responsibility for this ourselves, but perhaps we can also create a framework that will make it easier to have this dialogue with each other. Because living in a country that is one of the world's strongest democracies is a paradox, and I think that there have already been some very good examples of what this is for a strong democracy we have, a country where democratic values pervade all the bodies of our society and yet see a trend that we also see in other countries, namely that the distance between those who make decisions and those to whom decisions relate, is seen as increasing and increasing, and that trust between the elected representatives and the people is shrinking. It is a challenge that I think all of us who are sitting here are actually interested in doing something about, and I can already hear that from the debate. The hard question is how. How do we create a framework for more people to engage and experience heard and involved? There are no easy solutions. There are some very good attempts to do some very good things, and some of it also succeeds very well around. But there are no easy solutions, and that is why we have helped to put forward this proposal to set up a centre for the development of democracy and citizen involvement, a centre which also has contact with elected representatives, so that the work can be followed and supported, and a centre which in itself must be cohesive and inclusive. Democracy is something that must be looked after, nurtured and developed, something that cannot be enough. Democracy is constantly changing, especially as a result of the challenges and developments that otherwise take place in society both nationally and internationally. This is, for example, the case. on technology development, globalisation, population growth and climate change. We therefore need to be better able to involve citizens in political decision-making processes, and this requires the development of the ways in which the democratic dialogue and process takes place, not least in order to bring to the attention of all those who find it hardest to speak and who are not so well represented today. Sir. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned examples of what exactly it is for some groups that we do not represent very well in the Danish Parliament, but it is perhaps also the very same groups that are also not so clearly spoken when we try to have a dialogue out there. Specifically, we want to establish a centre with various tools and at different levels to maintain and strengthen democracy and citizen involvement in Denmark, with everything from research into new models of citizen involvement and democracy development to the implementation of concrete and inclusive projects. Increased involvement leads to increased co-existence, which ensures that decisions are widely accepted and robust and, above all, effective, and which is very much needed. At the same time, the Centre should focus on cooperation and be in close dialogue with relevant bodies. It must be obvious that a centre for democracy and citizen involvement should not be an isolated central institution, but an institution which is capable of being involved and spreading its messages itself. That is why, of course, we support the proposal that we ourselves have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503125802	Thank you for that. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503125808	Thank you. I have to admit that I had perhaps hoped a little that we would not be dealing with the proposal in this Chamber today, and it is not because it is not a good proposal, but it is probably just because I, like everyone else, soon hunger to be allowed to run a little election campaign. I think we are all waiting for that, but I can forgive the Prime Minister for not having written it out yet, because it allowed Mrs Karen J. Klint to make her last speech on this important subject. We do not know that because there will be many more in the coming weeks. But I would actually like to take this opportunity to endorse the fine words, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen also told Mrs Karen J. Klint. I think on a day like today, when we are discussing democracy, discussing popular government and discussing confidence in us politicians, that Mrs Karen J. Klint has been a model for many of us young politicians who have been elected for the first time on how to represent the Danes. So a cadeau for it anyway. A great deal has been said from the platform here today about what is already being done, and the Minister has explained the many initiatives that have been undertaken around the city, some rooted in our parliamentary work here and we, as Conservatives, also supported the scheme of citizens' proposals, which we think has been a great success. Now we had a debate in this Chamber a few days ago in which we evaluated it and we have in no way regretted our support for these citizens' proposals in the Conservative People's Party. We are also trying, with the mayor posts we have around the country, to focus on citizen involvement. One of the places where you actually do it very, very systematically is in Gentofte Municipality, and it's funny, because I think many little have a prejudice about such a conservative mastodon. We've had Conservative mayor's rule there for so many years we've had a mayor who's been sitting there for, well, decades but in fact, in Gentofte you're pretty far ahead and on the notes in relation to exactly citizen involvement. There you choose to see the citizens as specialists, as you say, and that is why you have different committees which, like politicians, advise you and which are constantly involved in decision-making processes. You have had a committee on retail trade, and you have had a committee on young people and the housing situation in Gentofte Municipality, where you have taken in those who know something about what young people are looking for and have listened to them, and I think that is an interesting and good way to proceed. The Minister also mentioned this with the binding municipal referendums, and many initiatives have been taken. Perhaps it is also because I was originally trained in social sciences from RUC that I have a feeling that we are talking about citizen involvement all the time, but there are many initiatives going on around here, and there is good reason for that too. I am well aware that this centre is intended to be wider than just citizen involvement, that is to say, the whole development of our democracy, and there may be grounds for looking at that too, but I think there was actually another rapporteur who said something very wise from the platform earlier about us having to start looking at ourselves. I think that is quite right. We must start by looking at ourselves how we lead as good models, how we involve in the political decisions we make, how we give influence to our members in the parties, listen to them and let them play a role in democracy. There we have to go in front of each one. So it's not that I, as a Conservative as such, have something against this proposal. I think it's fine to have a debate on it. I'm just not sure that it's necessarily a centre that's needed to facilitate this debate and this development, and the proposal isn't that specific either, given exactly how much money should be allocated to it or how you see it done. So it is not really because we on the conservative side have such opposition to this, but we may not be quite sure that that is the solution either. In any case, we will continue our work outside the local authority in order to ensure the development of the very close democracy that we, for example, have. Do it in Gentofte Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130242	We thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130257	Thank you very much for the debate or debate on this proposal. I would like to begin by joining the roses with Mrs Karen J. Klint. I cannot imagine anything more appropriate than the fact that it was Mrs Karen J. Klint who could be here today as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, because it has been about something since I first met the rapporteur before I came to Parliament, where I now have my own office, being very, very inspiring. It was nice to have the words of the rapporteur here today on this proposal. I think very good has been said about what is happening in our society with democracy, both by ministers and by all the rapporteurs. I do not think anyone doubts that much is happening to our democracy right now. The idea of what it used to be does not necessarily match what it is today, because new technologies have come that enable us to work in other ways. And society is developing. And, as Mrs Christina Egelund said, there is a great deal of commitment to civil society in associations, and that is also part of our democracy and part of our way of influencing decision-making processes, etc. On. It's something that's been recording the Alternative and me a lot. One of the reasons why we actually started the party was that we were preoccupied with how it is that we can work with democracy today; how it is that we can get more of the decision-making processes that are involved; how it is; how we can be inspired sometimes also by private business, which works with crowdsourcing, co-creation, etc., using methods where many more are involved than are necessarily done politically. This is also something we are concerned about in the world, because the challenges we face in democracy, and which we have to face with open eyes • falling membership figures in general in the parties, a confidence in politicians, who are plunging year after year; every time you don't think it can get lower, it takes just one more step down • you experience it in Denmark, but you actually experience it around the world, around Europe. Therefore, I have participated in many different meetings, workshops, work on democracy development around Europe. And what I'm seeing when I'm out is that everyone is sitting and saying, yes, but we see that something good is happening right here in this pocket, and something amazing is going on in this town. The Conservatives' rapporteur points to the municipality of Gentofte, which is really one of the municipalities that is tackling this exemplary issue. I can then go out and tell you about this when I stand at a democracy festival in southern England, where some from Frome also tell about how they have approached local democracy. This proposal has to actually look into the conversation: how do we constantly develop that we learn from each other? How is it that we get a knowledge sharing of all the fantastic things that are actually already happening and that can strengthen our democracy? It's actually the idea behind this center that we get a strengthened democracy with much more involvement, much more involvement. In the old days it happened through the parties and we can have a fantasy that this is where it has to happen again, but I do not think it is realistic. I think we need to look at other ways too. And the then Minister of Culture of the Liberal Alliance has written about this in the past, in other words what happens after the parties. What does democracy look like? One of the things you can use the idea of this center for, for example. This proposal for a citizen's proposal. It is not just a clever idea that has arisen behind closed doors in a party; it is something that has arisen by looking into the world and seeing how to do these things. After all, the model that we have got is so directly inspired by Finland, only when we discussed it and contacted the think tank in Finland that works with it, and then when we found the model. And when it was to be implemented in the Folketing, the Folketing also went back to Finland and learned from the experiences there was. That's one of the things I think we should talk about more. I hear people who do not think this centre is a good idea, but I do not hear any words about the fact that it is not good to develop, learn and disseminate democracy development and citizen involvement. So I hope that we can find good models in which the Danish People's Party can also see itself, because I think it is really important that we take the step further and look at how we also get all the good things that are going on, learned from them and have them further developed. These are the intentions behind the proposal, so thank you to the Social Democrats for supporting it, and thank you for at least the positive words about the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130803	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130807	Now that we are in a positive and good and pleasant mood, I would really just like to thank the rapporteurs for their commitment to this very agenda. And then I would just like to say that as long as we have the alternative, we do not need a centre for the development of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130824-2	Thank you. But so, even the alternative cannot have ears out all the places where great things are going on. Actually, that's the idea. This is what happened when I first went out to visit some of the local committees that have been created, because integration in Gentofte, for example, was only because I happened to meet someone who worked there and it was probably in a S-train or on a bus. So I'll try to get around as much as possible, but now I think it would be a good idea to put it more on the formula.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130855	But that's what we're thanking, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and thanks to the players here for discussing the subject which, while we are waiting for the elections, actually very well emphasises that there are things that bring us together and do not divide the parties. This was actually a talk across all parties on an important subject that everyone agreed is important. So it's good for the people. Thank you for your efforts today. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190503130932	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 7 May 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website and would also refer to the entire weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
