ParlaMint-DK_20190219130048	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on greater consideration for the well-being of children at asylum centres). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on border controls between Denmark and Sweden). President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B 102 SamuelsenProposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification by Denmark of the Protocol signed in Brussels on 6 February 2019 on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter requirements for quick loan providers and improved consumer rights in connection with the borrowing of quick loans) and motion for a resolution No. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of employee-owned enterprises). Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others: Haste query no. F 37 (on fire safety in nursing and elderly homes). Liselot Blixt (DF) and others: Question No. F 38 (On the ability of psychologists to practice without authorisation). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT) have informed me that they want to take the query no. F 29 on managing the primary school to the Minister of Education back. The question has now been dropped. The items listed as No. 3 and 9 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this meeting with the agreement of the Things. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130243	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130308	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 71 of Mads Birded (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). The vote is over. In favour 62 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 22 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 70 by Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and proposals for adoption No. V 72 by Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130506	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130531	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130602	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130629	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130651	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130706	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130723	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130739	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130800	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130816	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has indicated that she wishes to accept Amendment No. 10 and 16-18 of the report remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219130912	On 24 January, in Parliament, we first dealt with this proposal, which we are now considering, L 140. It is a proposal that was put forward before the end of the consultation period. Obviously, it had to go very fast. It should go so fast that, even after the first reading, the government was forced to table a number of amendments to its own proposal on 1 February. But that was not the end of the farce. Less than a week after it had been done, on 7 February, we received a letter from the Minister in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. In the letter, the Minister announced that I would like to withdraw the amendment from me on 1 February I guess it's a close world record in back swimming. What, then, were the reasons? It was true that the Minister's proposals and amendments had been implemented so badly in the legal sense that the Parliamentary Secretariat had to raise objections. On 15 February, last Friday, we received a new attempt from the Minister, an attempt in which the Minister, with no less than 44 amendments, tried to correct his own proposal outside the report. I believe, if we are now to be quite honest in this narrow circle, that few Members have had the opportunity to study these 44 amendments, which are primarily of a legal nature. It is to be hoped, then, that the Minister will be somewhat smacked at this time, because we shall be voting in a moment, or can we, Minister, expect another 44 amendments outside the report before the third reading on Thursday? I think the Minister should come up here and answer that, just so that we have an impression of what is going on. Now it is not the first time in the history of the Folketing that a government is presenting a sloppy and unworked bill for this Things. This has happened before, and not least in situations where sudden events at home or abroad have made urgent legislation necessary. That's understandable. Therefore, it is also interesting to look a little more closely at what is the government's justification for the urgency of this legislation so that it was not possible to wait for the hearings and apparently did not have time to read proof of its own legislative proposal. I have asked the Minister quite by accident, and my question [question 33] is: why is it necessary to rush through the legislation and not give the opportunity to have proper time to work with the bill? And what does the Minister say? The minister responds:... This is because we want to get the proposed changes through and thus put into effect as soon as possible..... well, that's a brilliant answer. That is brilliant, that is what would be said on television. In other words, when the government looks at all the deadlines for consultation, when you deliver a draft, a draft bill, unworked to the Folketing, which you then have to try to repair with a sea of amendments, then the reason is that it is because you want the proposal to be passed quickly. In other words, it must simply be a gift to the government which will soon replace the present one. There will in future simply not be a single proposal in which we cannot simply act in exactly the same way. And when the future Mrs Inger Støjberg stands down on the back ranks of the opposition benches and protests and demands an explanation, the future government can just say as in the quote, namely that this is because we want to get the proposed changes through and thus put into effect as soon as possible. The only thing we can hope for is that by then we will not only have a better government than we have now, but also that we will have a better majority than what we have in this Parliament, a majority which will not be content with the role of parliamentary flooring. In any case, I can promise the current minister and soon the future Mrs Inger Støjberg that the Enhedslisten will never ever be able to accept such a procedure regardless of who is in government. When we look at the content of the draft law, it will not be better by the government's 44 amendments. This proposal is essentially about refugees feeling unwelcome in Denmark. We simply need to send out a signal into the big world that refugees are undesirable in this country and that we do not want to take co-responsibility to resolve the biggest refugee crisis since the Second World War. You have to lift your hat and say that it has actually succeeded far along the way. Everywhere in Europe, everywhere in the world, this proposal has produced key articles and central publicity in the media, and in a number of parliaments it has been discussed. Critical resolutions have been adopted. I believe that the Danish ambassador to various parliaments has been called for an interview. So the government has succeeded in getting its message out. But we also have to say that this is a message that we do not support. I would like to mention four things here: firstly, there is the so-called paradigm shift, where there is preparation for repatriation instead of preparation for integration, which completely ignores the experience that most refugees are staying here for many years. When was it now that there was an Islamic revolution in Iran? It may not be something you remember every day, but we have just indicated that it was 40 years ago. 40 years ago Iranian refugees came to Denmark in protest against Islamism. There is still an Islamist regime that oppresses the population, and these people cannot be sent home. It's 40 years of temporary nature. Excuse me, of course, these people should not be prepared to be repatriated. It must be prepared for integration, also because integrating people, showing all the experiences, is the best way to get people to return home when there is peace and freedom in their country. This is the best condition for them to feel that they have the profits they need. Secondly, there is the new poverty payment. After all, we have had the low integration benefit in the past, and now we need an even lower broadcasting service. This will, of course, lead to poor integration, and it will probably also lead to some crime, because people cannot be active in society and so on. Above all, however, this is a question of creating a group of wage-earners in the labour market who are so disadvantaged that they will go out and do anything to get jobs. This is an attack on the organized trade union movement. It's an attack on the organized worker, the metal worker, the sosu assistant, all those who keep the wheels running. It is an attack on them, and that is why, of course, it is a proposal that we cannot under any circumstances support. Thirdly, there are the worse housing conditions. The obligation of local authorities to provide refugees with permanent housing is being abolished. Moreover, it has been partially abolished. They have the opportunity to avoid it. But it is also an approach that will counteract integration that people do not get a home where they can have a starting point for their lives in Denmark. Fourthly and finally, I would like to mention the issue of less democratic involvement, which is the extension of the period for voting in municipal and regional elections from three to four years. This, too, postpones integration, because we know that engaging in a society, keeping track and finding out who to vote for, where one's sympathies and the opposite lie, of course helps to integrate and, above all, integrate into the democracy that we want to remain. So we have to note that the 44 amendments tabled by the government have not fundamentally changed these things. On the other hand, it will be the amendments that we have tabled, in particular with the SF, the Radicals and the Alternatives, and I therefore recommend those amendments to the adoption of the Things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131804	There's a comment. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131808	Thank you. I would like to ask why the Enhedslisten is not helping to solve the problems and challenges created by immigration. For the only thing we hear from Enhedslisten is that one complains about the initiatives taken by other parties in this Parliament, but Enhedslisten does not contribute himself. There will be no proposals from Enhedslisten to limit the influx to Denmark, for example, or to ensure that we have a more active return policy. The policy pursued by Enhedslisten, if you unfold it completely, means that more will come to Denmark, and it will create social problems, and it will create cultural challenges. So when you refuse to cooperate with the other parties to solve these problems, you make yourself part of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131847	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131849	In 1991-1992, 20 000 refugees came from Bosnia. At that time, we did not have a party that was dependent on Mr. Martin Henriksen's party. We have had that since 2001, and that is why Mr. Martin Henriksen put everything that has happened since 2001 on his cloak. But there we had some who actually wanted to integrate these Bosnian refugees, and that happened. I don't know if sir. Martin Henriksen is aware that there are huge problems with Bosnian refugees in Denmark. It's not something I know about. On the contrary, many of the Bosnians who came at that time are those who have not gone home because they were integrated and thus also made the profits go home, as things changed and have become part of the Danish society and contribute to the Danish society. So I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen, that when Enhedslisten had influence, it was different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131950	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219131953	That's right. That's right, but I guess we're looking at this case a little differently. Well, it's a denial of reality, sir. Søren Søndergaard refuses to face reality. It makes Enhedslisten sound like there are practically no problems, and when people come here, integration works impeccably, but that is wrong. It is not just a question of attitudes; it is also factually wrong. It is simply not true that there are good experiences of integration in Denmark. So what exactly is Enhedslisten's offer for a solution? For the only thing we hear from Enhedslisten is hernia, hernia, hernia and hernia over what other parties agree on. But when it comes to what you want, you really don't want anything. It's a thin round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132029	It's a very well-known trick, and I think, sir. Martin Henriksen performs the trick with perfection that you shoot a person something in the shoe that he hasn't said, and then you argue against it. I did not say that there were no problems in integration. I didn't tell you there was no problem. What I took was a concrete example of the Bosnian refugees, where we showed that we had the opportunity to deal with the problem of 20 000 within a very short period of time; we did it. And that's just what I was trying to relate to. Mr. Martin Henriksen is not, and I understand why Mr. Martin Henriksen wouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132110	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132118	Thank you. I think, sir. Søren Søndergaard has so appropriately examined the sloppy nature of this law, with the many, many amendments that have been tabled and withdrawn. And it's actually very much an expression that this law is made for election campaigning... it's not made for reality. It is disrespect for the people's rule, but perhaps most of all for the people's respect for the people's rule, because how should you expect someone to take it seriously when the government itself does not take it seriously? I think that is almost the saddest thing about the process of this, i.e. that it contributes to the extensive political leadership that exists. In terms of content, the bill is about signaling 'cause it's made for campaigning that we can make life miserable for the people who have fled to Denmark from war. That's the whole point of departure for L 140. Fortunately, what has also been unveiled in recent days is that it also makes life deeply miserable for employers, for the trade union movement; they all say no to this law, because it does not change, nor does it create a new paradigm, it just causes more new problems, and it does not solve any problems. It creates uncertainty for employers, it creates uncertainty for the many thousands working in, among other things. the hotel and catering industry, in social and health care, where we now do not know what will happen to those who contribute there. It is stupid, and it is useless, and it is otherwise useful, namely, that we should be in favour of the people's rule. That's why we have, as sir. Søren Søndergaard pointed out that a number of amendments were tabled to draw this bill in a better direction. We in the Radical Left would also recommend them for adoption by the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132356	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132359	Thank you. I just want to know if it is the Radical Left's view that we in Denmark, indeed I was just about to say forever, should just keep welcoming people who come here without requiring them to return to their home countries at some point when it is possible. In the opinion of the Radicals, can we continue to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132417	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132418	We in the Radical Left believe that we need to attract many, many more as labour, but that is something else. Refugees must be protected in Europe. Therefore, the best thing would be for us to have much stronger controls at the external borders of Europe so that from there we could control the distribution to the European countries. I am constantly surprised that the Danish People's Party is opposed to border controls at the external borders and does not give a mandate for stronger action there. We would then be able to control the distribution so that Denmark would not have to take as many refugees as we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132456	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132458	I am not sure that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen answered the question. Is the Radical Left's view that Denmark can just continue to accept? Then it may be that, as the Radicals want, we have to accept via an EU distribution key or that we have to accept them when they get to the Danish border. Is it the view of the Radical Left that we can just continue to welcome refugees and family-run refugees and that this is not really a problem, also because businesses can then get them into employment and so on, but that we can just keep going? At the same time as we must continue to do so, we must not demand that they return to their home countries whenever possible. How can such a position be defended to the Danes? I just don't understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132541	We cannot accept all refugees in Denmark, and neither should we, nor are we. It would be best if we knew exactly how many we should accept, because then we would have control over it, for example. to receive 500 quota refugees per year through the United Nations quota refugee system. It would be a really good thing if we could. The best thing would be for us to get full control of it. We cannot leave refugees behind and say that some others will have to accept them. We must also be able to accept some, and certainly not all. We must be able to do so, and when they are here, we must ensure that they contribute, by requiring training and work, and not by telling them about repatriation, which we do not even receive, nor do I in the Danish People's Party • can provide any guarantees whatsoever. That's what's real.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132630	Thank you. There are no more comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219132639	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (RV and SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 28 (S). Amendment No. 1 has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 3 and 4 submitted and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL and RV), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 28 abstentions (S). Amendment No. 2 is rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 6, 11, 12 and 15, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 81 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 5 has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 19-22 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Nøjberg) as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. Seven are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 79 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 8 has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 9 is rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 23-32 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Nøjberg) as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 13 of a minority (EL and RV), joined by a minority (S, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour, 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 0. Amendment No. 13 has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 33-35 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Nøjberg) as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (S, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 14 have been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 36-44 outside the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Nøjberg) as adopted. They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219133249	I'm just gonna sit down until those who aren't gonna participate go out so we can get some rest. We can now proceed with the agenda, with the second reading of L 130. No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219133434	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219133506	From the Socialist side, we have looked very much forward to the discussion of this proposal. We have this because it is about strengthening Copenhagen's green transition. It is about promoting our public transport, and it is about ensuring access to building new cheap housing. It is a well-known fact that the whole vision of building a metro in Copenhagen is based on self-financing in itself. The vision has been that the metro has been built, and then you have been able to sell some land, so you have been able to self-finance this green conversion of transport, so that we can avoid congestion on the roads and we can avoid environmentally polluting cars and get more people to drive with high-class public traffic. In connection with this, Amager Samled has also been classified as one of the lands that would be used for a new housing estate and to finance the future metro. What has then happened is that a number of committed and persistent citizens have criticized this decision. They simply think that there is too much conservation in the area, animal species, plants and other things that we have been concerned about. And as fortunately in Danish democracy, we have dialogue with each other, we have discussions with each other, and we listen to each other. This has also been done in this case, and even though it has sometimes been a little scratchy, one has nevertheless chosen to say: let us now give it the benefit of the doubt, and let us take some consideration here. When the City of Copenhagen made their latest draft budget, has it been said: OK, when there is so much popular resistance to using the area at the Amager Common, can we find some replacement areas? That is also the point that has been made when we have discussed this in the House in the past, because why exactly take this area if there are other areas that it is more appropriate to include? It has then been decided to make an agreement on this in Copenhagen's citizens' representation. It's a very broad agreement between several different parties that agrees that it's actually smarter to do it this way. Here at Christiansborg we have also said in a broad conciliation circle, ranging from the Danish People's Party to the Social Democratic Party and the Socialist People's Party, that we are thus involved in finding some replacement areas, so we do not need to use the exact area that many are occupied with, because it has a lot of natural values that we need to take care of, and that is in this proposal. Somewhere on Amager you reach over a campsite, and then you say: Okay, it must continue to be so that people can camp, and therefore we look at Bellahøj Camping, which is located at the other end of the municipality, and expand some of their options. It is therefore a listening, engaging, dialogue-oriented and very environmentally conscious way of dealing with this, so that we can ensure a green transition in the City of Copenhagen, better public transport, more people who choose to drive public transport rather than take the car, but so that we can also secure some areas where we can build cheaper housing, so that the school teacher, police officer, nurse, social and health assistant and cashier have a place to live when they want to live in Copenhagen City. We think that's common sense. We think this is a good compromise. We think it is responsible and that it is a good political craftsmanship. We have noted that environmentally-engaged citizens and the Danish Nature Conservation Association, but also their own party colleagues, who are very committed to environmental issues, say: "Whoa, whoa, whoa, be careful; it is not good practice that it is the Folketing that decides what is to be protected; we have conservation councils and other things, now let us involve them forward-looking; it is fine in this case that you take a parliamentary decision, but don't let that set a precedent. I have been in dialogue with the Director of the Danish Nature Conservation Association on this very subject. She wrote to me last night on an e-mail: Don't kneel this as a principle that you're pursuing forward-looking. There we say from the Social Democrats that in this case it is the right thing to do, but it is not the case that we want to abolish the way in which we usually work on conservation cases. We will, of course, do it in the way we usually do it, namely with conservation councils and other things, but in this specific case it makes sense. And the Social Democrats' aim is to ensure more green areas and more conservation, but in this specific case the way in which it has been approached is incredibly good and constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134021	Thank you. There are some comments. Sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134030	Thank you. I'm very worried about this case. Of course, we need to develop the metro and the remaining public transport, and we need to find funding for it. In fact, this is a local matter which should be dealt with locally and not here in the Danish Parliament, which is a different matter. We have, of course, offered a long list of areas locally which could be chosen instead and which did not require any decency. However, what is happening here is that you go in and address something quite fundamental in the conservation tool. After all, the conservation tool is designed in such a way as to say: we are protecting this natural area for all futures unless there are some very important socio-economic things, it could be a railway that has to cut through a landscape, and such one cannot drive in zigzag, and then we have to. In this case, it's all about money. It's about financing a subway that runs underground. So I would like to ask: can the rapporteur state whether it has ever happened in the past that the conservation of a given natural area has been abolished with the aim of allowing a municipality to sell the land for profit?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134140	I and we Social Democrats are extremely pleased with the alternative's contribution in this matter, because there is no doubt that everyone is concerned about nature and the environment, and it is good to have a party like the alternative, which is in many ways the green conscience and which keeps reminding us to ask whether this is the right way to do this. In this case, we have considered that it is so extremely important to have a transition from the private car to the metro, because it is better for the climate and the environment. It is also good to avoid tribulation. So we think the overall perspective is so important that in this specific case we would like to do so. I am sure that the Minister will be able to answer this question when he comes on. I am not sure that I can give the specific example, but that is also why we Social Democrats are humble enough to say: we are doing it in this case. But it is not because we see that this is something that must set a precedent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134234	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134237	Thank you. But since this isn't about the subway itself, it's underground, you could choose other locations, and that's what we've done in our proposal locally. So this has become a matter of whether or not we can find some money for the subway. We'll do that by disarming this area. Then I am worried, because then I think that in the next project, where you need some money, you can go out and disarm an area in order to build there, and then the whole conservation tool will fall to the ground. Can the rapporteur not share my concerns that this conservation tool is a very dangerous way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134320	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134322	I believe in itself that the most dangerous way to go, as I have a little experience of the alternative imagining here, is to believe that you can build a metro without any funding. Then you can build air castles, then you can have dreams, then you can have visions, you can make idea labs, but if you want a metro that brings people from A to B, if you want something that makes people say that here is an attractive alternative that can move from the private car to the metro, then you have to build a metro. It's gonna take some money. We found it here. We have looked at the proposals that have been made, and it is the City of Copenhagen that has landed this compromise. We'll back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134405	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134409	The rapporteur says that the main reason for disenfranchising these lands is that some money needs to be raised. Could we not consider other ways of getting money? One might consider extending the payment period, and it didn't necessarily have to be the City of Copenhagen, which was supposed to provide these millions of upfronts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134435	It goes without saying that there are many different ways of finding money. We have also noted that the Enhedslisten, which the rapporteur represents, had other ideas on how to do it here, among other things. Putting up the treasure. What we have concentrated on from the Socialist side is that if we are to create a majority, where the metro is something that is going to happen, something that we are going to put into practice, something that we are actually doing to be able to find some parties with which we can agree to create a majority. So the majority is here, where you choose to sell some land. There was no majority for any other ideas. Then you can choose to raise the tab so high that you can't reach the ground and say: we are very much in favour of metro, we just don't agree with the funding. We were not in favour of this on the part of the Social Democrats. We wanted the subway. That's why we went where there was a majority to find it there, and that's why we have a metro today. Had we listened too much to Enhedslisten, we would still be driving around on diesel-soaking buses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134536	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134539	Oh, I don't think that would be the case. The Enhedslisten can also provide alternative funding. After all, the rapporteur did not relate to the part of my question which was about the fact that you could choose to make a different kind of financing, such as the one we are discussing here. to extend the payment period for the subway • it would be nice to hear. So to keep us all the way down to the ground: how will the rapporteur ensure that the many homes that then come to Lærkesletten are connected with the rest of the world, i.e. Copenhagen and the metro e.g.? How is the rapporteur going to ensure this without going beyond the part of Amager's commons who are going to be freed? Is there not going to be trails or anything else over the area that one has just decided to free?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134634	When we have chosen to finance this way, it is because that is what has been a political majority in favour; that is what was realistic. If we wanted a subway, that's the way we should go. Then there's the clever thing about this way of financing that it meets another need that is and that I think a lot of Copenhageners are preoccupied with, namely that we can get new land so that we can have more housing, including cheap housing. One of the major problems in Copenhagen is that it is difficult for a nurse, a police officer, a school teacher, a teacher, a sosu assistant and a cashier to find a suitable accommodation. We Social Democrats would like to help there, and I am sorry to hear that if it is that Enhedslisten is more concerned with something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134715	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134718	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, questions and answers to the questions. I am curious because the rapporteur mentions that it is important for S to ensure the green transition. It is also for the Alternative and thanks for the compliments you had at least for the first half of Mr. Christian Poll's question. Is the rapporteur aware of the size of the traffic jump from cars to the metro at present??
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134750	Too little is happening. Too many people hold onto their private car. But one thing that is absolutely certain is that it is easier to jump from a car to a metro that actually exists than to jump from a car to a metro that the alternative is hoping for but has no funding for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134811	Here you go, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134814	Thank you. We have put forward alternative funding and it is clear that there was no majority in favour of it, so the rapporteur is right. But there are many other ways we could also make a green transition: we could have BAT, we could have light rails etc., and how much does it move compared to a metro? We know that from a research point of view. But here we have a break with 100 years of conservation practice. I do not know whether the Social Democratic Party is as concerned about the nature that remains in Denmark as several of the other parties in the opposition are, but this creates a very, very unfortunate precedent. It is not only Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, it is also Danish Occupation that is out to say it. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134901	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134903	Once again, I would like to thank the alternative for a committed speech and for being so much the conscience of the environment and nature. We need that. I mentioned in my opening speech that we are well aware that there is usually a more laborious procedure for conservation proceedings. There are, however, examples of the second rapporteur of the alternative mentioned. We have to create a railway, we can compromise on it because the overall concern is greater. Actually, we kind of think it's here. But we are well aware that this is not normal procedure. That is also why we say: we do it in this case, but we want to say so much that we do not see it as a precedent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134946	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219134954	As far back as 1992, when an agreement was reached on how to finance a metro, it was agreed that this should be done through land development, including the Amager Common. In 2017, after massive protests, the Copenhagen Citizens' Representation decided that it would not provide the plan basis for the ergo it was impossible and then suddenly a hole in the box of 1.7 billion was left behind. kr. at City & Port. That is the problem we are dealing with today by making an area conversion. Moreover, I do not wish to enter into a religious discussion about the role of the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I am quite comfortable with the fact that we are tampering with their monopoly position, which they have been in for 100 years, I think it was said that we have no problem at all in the Danish People's Party. There are several who have been out to pronounce on these lands, which are then, as it were, given in exchange, that the natural value is actually higher, and it may be so surprising that someone may be opposed to us now building some old land, which is primarily filled up as landfills, and then we give the Amager Commons free to recreation area and retain it with the natural value it has today. I am simply surprised that someone has something against it. I'm gonna call this a win-win, and we're gonna make sure we can now fund the subway in the South Harbor this way. I'm gonna have to mention this housing thing, to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn said that now there will be a lot of cheap housing. We have heard other Social Democrats say that in the past, without it happening, but let us hope it happens this time, because that is what we need, in other words housing in the Copenhagen area, which people can pay and can afford.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135159	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135202	Thank you. The rapporteur is wise about the natural value of the various areas. I am not going to go into that debate, but I would like to hear how the rapporteur will ensure that the part of the Amager Common, the Beach, which is now being freed from construction, will also continue as an undisturbed natural area. So, as I asked the previous rapporteur, how do we ensure that no paths pass through the beach area? Does the rapporteur have a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135247	But we are entering into a discussion which, in itself, has little to do with transport policy, but which may have more to do with the Ministry of the Environment. I know that when you raise conservation matters in the Danish Nature Conservation Association, you do so completely without regard to those you raise them against, completely without regard to the costs that landowners have for lawyers, and what do I know, because through conservations you want to provide public access to an area. And that's where I think it's sticking a little bit. You want to protect an area to preserve its natural value, but you want a lot of people to run around there. That's what the protectors often say, that you can have public access to the place. And that's where I just don't understand the logic. I would like to be able to give an answer to that, but I simply do not understand the logic when you think of it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135337	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135341	It may be that I can help the rapporteur a little along the way. After all, when you choose to build on the Lærkesletten, you get built in a place where, if you have to get out of that area, at least through the nearest road to the metro, you have to move through the beach area, which is owned by the public, so there is no problem with some owners suffering harm. However, if you are to move through that area, it will not be possible to interpret it into undisturbed nature, as was the whole idea of choosing some other areas. So how is the rapporteur going to ensure logistics? It's a transport issue compared to coming from the new area you're building, Lærkesletten, to some public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135431	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135432	I simply cannot answer it because I am not as much in the area as the questioner seems to be. But, of course, access to public transport must be guaranteed for the homes to be built. And then one can rejoice that there will now be a new, large area, which will then be available to all the natural lovers of Amager. So I think this is gonna be a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135502	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135505	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for his speech and reply, and it is quite fair that the rapporteur says that he is not a climate rapporteur so that he cannot respond in detail. However, there is the problem that our infrastructure projects affect our nature and the environment, and that is why we need to be able to answer what the effects will be. That is why we should have had a vvm in relation to this, and I know that it has been promised afterwards. However, let me ask you about the democratic aspect, and it may be that the rapporteur can respond to that. Many of the consultation answers come from associations, from local councils and from citizens centrally out there, expressing dissatisfaction with the peace, with the way it is done and the urban development that is going to be, and the rapporteur's party itself speaks a great deal about decentralisation and local involvement. How, then, does the rapporteur think that we are dealing with this aspect of democracy in this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135603	I believe that this has been dealt with in great detail, in that a 1992 decision on land development has been amended. At that time the countless protests against the development of the city at the Amager Common were listened to and therefore the decision was changed by a very broad majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, so that some land has been exchanged. 'Cause if you don't, sir... Roger Courage Matthisen comes with 1.7 billion. kr., and I don't know how to finance it. I have not seen the financing proposal of the alternative, but there will be protests, no matter what we do. But I think it is wrong to say that there has been no listening. Because the decision was overturned for many years. It had just been forgotten that when it was abandoned, there was a shortage of 1.7 billion. kr. in City & Port's cash box.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135653	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135655	Thank you for your answer. I think it's more like 1.6 billion. more than 1.7 billion kr., but I don't know. The funding we have put forward is, of course, that we find it from the room for manoeuvre in the municipality fund, and if we have to build on the land, we have put forward some alternatives. But it is true that there has not been a majority in favour of it, so there is no need to discuss them. Now we're just asking you 1) Why won't you keep to the democratic process that's around these developments? 2) The whole meaning of nature conservation is to ensure that we have some nature for our children and our grandchildren. That is basically why we have that institution and it is being sawn over here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135737	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135738	Yes, of course, it's a way to fund it from the municipal treasury. Then you can take it from the elderly and the weakest in the City of Copenhagen and then spend the money to cover a gap created by the fact that you basically don't want any development on Amager. Of course, this is an opportunity, but we just don't see it in the Danish People's Party as a real opportunity. What is currently happening out there is good and there has been a consultation process and there has been a consultation period and it has been complied with in relation to the legislative proposal. The problem for Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen may be that they, as Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen seems to have been heard, doesn't feel that way as part of a majority in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135825	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219135834	Thank you for that, President. I want to start by stating that the overall background to this bill is very positive, namely that we are undertaking a significant strengthening of public transport in the capital. This is a very important objective, on which I believe there is, in fact, broad political agreement here in the Folketing. The direct background to the bill is that we create the possibility for City & Port I/S to develop a number of areas to replace the Ørestad Common Quarter. The bill translates into a broad political agreement between the government, i.e. Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservatives and Social Democratic Party, Danish People's Party, Radical Left and SF from October 2018 on the replacement of the building at the Ørestad Common Quarter as well as the construction of Lynetteholmen. In addition, there is broad political support for this proposal from the Copenhagen Citizen's Representation, and it is worth noting, after extensive studies have been carried out to find alternative solutions, and these studies can also be found on the Copenhagen Municipality's website. The bill provides that the municipality of Copenhagen deposits two areas in the development company City & Harbour I/S located on Vejlands Allé and Seinevej Nord, and the development company will then undertake the urban development of these areas. The bill, and it is very important, will at the same time ensure that the Ørestad Common Quarter is freed from settlement. This will ensure that areas of higher natural value are preserved for the benefit of areas of the Amager Community with lower natural value. Finally, the bill contains amendments to the current conservation provisions for Bellahøjmarken. The provisions on conservation are amended in such a way that it will be possible to extend the opening hours of the campsite and to develop and extend the facilities to a modern standard. It will also benefit a great many people. So all in all, this is a good legislative proposal, which the Left can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140047	Thank you. Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140050	Thank you. The rapporteur then takes note of the fact that something good is being done for nature by releasing the stranding, but the rapporteur does not mention Stejlepladsen outside the fishing port, i.e. in Copenhagen's South Harbour, an area which is a breathing hole in urban nature, I would call it. And some of the things that are going on out there are, in fact, also professional activity. There we have one of Copenhagen's last commercial fishermen, who then use the area for among other things. to be able to hang his nets to dry on. What will the Left do to ensure that life in the fishing port can continue and that the business community that is out there can, moreover, continue untouched?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140144	As far as I know, there is nothing to prevent professional fishermen from continuing their current activities. If so, the Minister can confirm that later on and I think that is important. But basically, we trust the City of Copenhagen. So now that the City of Copenhagen is making this recommendation, and they're everything else just closer to this case than we are in here in the Danish Parliament, we don't hesitate to back it up. And overall, it is my clear assessment that we are precisely switching conservations with low natural value to a conservation with higher natural value, and that is a good prey.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140220	Well, it would be good if it were also true that this gave a higher natural value. I have already mentioned the question of how we can then ensure that the nature on the strand is preserved and not, for example, preserved. is plowed by paved paths with lighting. It may be that the rapporteur has a bid to do so. I would also like to hear where it is then that fishermen have to dry their nets, since Stejlepladen is no longer there, but there is some concrete construction. Where's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140258	I have no concrete idea of how to dry the nets out there. I am just informed that there is nothing to prevent fishermen from continuing their activities. And then there's that view of nature at all, where there's talk of plowing a path through an area that sounds very dramatic. But basically it is positive that people can also get close to nature. It is such a warped view of nature that it is terrible if people come close to nature. In fact, I think it is positive that some people can come close to nature, of course without destroying nature; the two considerations can easily be reconciled in my world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140333	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140338	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and answers to questions. I get a little curious when the rapporteur says that you swap the grounds, because it is true that you swap the places that have a lower value for reasons of higher value, and then you can justify that it is just a pure economy we are talking about here. But it doesn't give us any more nature to build something. But that's what it is. So here's the question: do we break with 100 years of conservation? Do we break with the basic principle that the Protection Board should be in charge? Does the rapporteur think that this is something that should set a precedent? When is this justified, and why do we not want to respect the democratic process that exists precisely to safeguard our nature in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140429	With regard to the value aspect, I am not talking about economic value. I am talking about natural value, where I believe that we are now switching from a conservation with low natural value to a conservation with higher natural value. As to whether it should set a precedent, the answer is: No, I do not think so. This has to be addressed in the very specific cases, and there is therefore a good reason for doing what we are doing with this bill; it should not set a precedent. But that this is undemocratic and so on, I must reject it completely. I can hardly imagine anything more democratic than that we are dealing with things here in the people's own things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140504	Here you go, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140506	Thank you. Well, I would like to question that very much. Well, that's how I'm in a dilemma here myself. As rapporteur on transport, I believe that we must ensure that we have proper accessibility and mobility. I also believe that we should take decentralised decisions, and here it has been the City of Copenhagen that has been the prime engine. But, of course, we see that we have a country with a biodiversity that is falling to such an extent. It's under threat, and so is our nature. And we have to acknowledge that. So what comes first: the democratically adopted processes of conservation, or that there are some who want us to build? What comes first?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140542	For me, this is not a either-or; it is a question of finding a good holistic solution with the right balance sheets. And I believe that here we find the balance between finding some money in order to carry out a very, very important infrastructure project with public transport and at the same time taking due account of nature. So I think a really good balance has been struck in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140604	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219140615	Almost all parties want to appear as green. Even the government makes one green move after another. It is only to be welcomed that on paper there is, after all, an almost united Parliament that wants to put the green high, even very high, on the agenda. That is why the draft law we have before us today is all the more regrettable. It is a legislative proposal backed by a majority, including by parties that usually pride themselves on being green, some that are actually even green. The bill stands in sharp contrast to all the toasts we have heard about how important nature is, not least during the debate we had on the right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to raise conservation cases here a few weeks ago. But now it is about the opposite, namely to disarm. The cemetery and the Stejle Square must be satisfied to provide more concrete. Very fittingly, many of the green organizations that are against the law are called by many of the law of concrete. That's quite telling. It is argued that the bill is actually good for nature. We have already heard that and that the Beach in the same moment will be included in conservation. It is true that the beach must appear to be protected. But it will probably only be on paper, because what will be the reality? This bill will mean that at Lærkesleten immediately west of the Beach, housing will be built with up to 4,500 new inhabitants. Those people are going to get their daily walk across the Beach to reach the nearest metro station. Probably it will happen through paved and illuminated paths, and then one can hardly talk about the beach being protected, no, quite the contrary. Because the passage of asphalt paths across an area is something quite different from guaranteeing public access to nature. At the same time, the majority with the bill will pour concrete over the protected Stejle Square in Copenhagen's South Harbour. Now I do not know how many of those who are here today intending to vote in favour of the law, who have actually been out to see it, but I myself have been there, and I have experienced a unique area, which is one of the last remnants of old Copenhagen. It tells an important part of the city's history, namely the story that Copenhagen was built, not by Absalon, but by fishermen. This historic breathing hole must now be removed if it is up to the concrete gray majority here in the Folketing. It's a huge loss. I really hope that the majority will decide and help to come up with some other solutions. Because why are we actually standing here? Yes, it is because Copenhagen has a metro debt to settle. The metro construction has been financed with revenue from basic sales in Copenhagen, and this very construction has meant that the City of Copenhagen has had to include green areas by hand. It is actually strange that Copenhagen, our capital, should itself be responsible for paying such a large bill when the very same majority here in the Danish Parliament wants to throw state money at motorways in the rest of the country without at the same time requiring local cofinancing. That doesn't seem right at first. But now, now we're in this mess. The state wants its payment, and there's nothing to do about that, or is there? Have all options been searched? It's not unusual to extend a loan. It has also been seen before that the repayment period for an infrastructure project has been extended so why not here? This could ease the pressure on Copenhagen and ensure more sensible urban development. In this context, I am going to ask the Minister a number of questions to look into this possibility. I think this is a really, really unfortunate matter, not least because it shows that, after all, the green agenda is actually quite low in most parties. Fortunately, this priority contrasts with the grass roots and organisations fighting against the concrete law: Amager Common Friends, Friends of Stejlepladsen, World Forests, Friends of the Fishing Port and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, just to name some of those who make a huge effort with their commitment to nature in Copenhagen. The Enhedslisten cannot, of course, vote in favour of the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141112	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141115	Thank you very much for the comments of the Enhedslisten rapporteur here. I think there were many good considerations, not least that of giving priority to the green, which we also attach importance to on the part of the Social Democrats. What amazes me a little is that Enhedslisten's rapporteur makes himself such an opponent of more housing in Copenhagen. Is it the case that Enhedslisten does not recognise that there is a huge need for housing, especially for low-cost housing, which can house middle-income groups and low-income groups? I am thinking here of school teachers, educators, police officers, sosu assistants, shop assistants, etc. Well, there's a huge need for housing. Is it not precisely positive that, by ensuring a green transition to more metro, we can also include some areas where we build new housing, among other things. to those groups?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141205	First of all, yes, Enhedslisten is in favour of cheap housing in particular, and it may well be in Copenhagen. What we are not in favour of is building areas of great natural value, and that is what we are opposed to here. I would also like to say that I hope that this will be a matter of cheap housing, as it now seems to be adopted. But then I could ask you back to Mr. Rasmus Prehn: Can we be sure of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141240	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141242	This is some of what has been put forward as part of the planning. I just have to listen to this because I get a little insecure about where Enhedslisten is: I mean, it sounds a little like you are in favour of metro, but you are just against funding, which means that it can't happen. You are also in favour of more homes, you are just against the location, and then it cannot happen. Should the Enhedslisten not get into the fight and relate a little to the reality so that we can get both metro and cheap housing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141308	Well, Enhedslisten is in the fight, and we always relate to reality. And when I point out that there are other funding options, I have just mentioned, including in my rapporteur's speech, that one can of course choose to extend the funding period just as a quick and quite simple grasp instead of having to include nature and sell land. And it's gonna be land with a very high percentage of settlements you sell. So yes, we want housing, but not when it affects nature to the extent that it does here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141347	Sir. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141350	After all, it was a talk with a lot of straw-man arguments, where all of us are shown as blacks and as some who are only in favour of concrete and not nature. That is not fair, and it is not true. Will the Enhedslisten's rapporteur not confirm that if you do not vote for this bill, it will be built on the Beach, which, by all who know something about nature, will be recognised as a natural area more valuable than those now being built. So is this a green proposal that ensures more nature than you'll get if you don't vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141438-2	No, I don't want to confirm that because there are other options. It is not a question of either doing something or doing nothing. There are other options. Again, I have to say that there are plenty of other alternatives. Now, in reply to a previous questioner, I have mentioned the funding, but there are also other places to build than exactly in the Lærkesletten. So I don't see that this is the only solution that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141512	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141513	But it's just wrong. If this bill is not passed, it will be built on the Beach, period. That's the choice right now. Then I will try to ask Enhedslisten's rapporteur whether he has even examined this by extending the repayment period. Because now it's been said eight times, I think. Has it even bothered to investigate whether this is an option? Because I can tell you that it is not, but the Minister can tell you that too. It is therefore completely birds on the roof, and the result of Enhedslisten's policy will then be that the beach will be built.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141549	Well, let me just make it clear that there are other alternatives. It is not the case that we are standing here today, and if this bill is not adopted, then the machines will run over the Beach immediately. I can see from the questioner that he has at least the bulldozers ready if he succeeds in obtaining a different majority. I doubt that can be the case now. So let me just say: there are other solutions. In relation to funding, I would say that it has been possible in other cases to make a longer period of funding. So I just want to say that it has to be able to do that here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141634	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Sir. Villum Christensen, go ahead, from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141644	The bill here translates the agreement on compensation for construction at the Ørestad Common Quarter from 25 October 2008, as we have heard. It is an agreement that the Liberal Alliance is part of, and of course we intend to agree to it. I find it gratifying that alternative building areas have now been found to replace the cancelled building project at Ørestad Fælled. The natural values in the alternative building fields as we have heard are even lower than at the Ørestad Fælled. That is why it is a good solution and so we will have a building that we would not otherwise have had. And if there's something you need in Copenhagen, it's a lot of new homes. So there's a lot of common sense in this proposal. There is also some pragmatism that I think we should appreciate from in here, where we are actually tampering with the local machinery spaces. So all in all, it is a good proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141744	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219141759	A number of good questions have been put to the rapporteurs today. Nature, climate, environment and democracy are some of the agendas that people are beginning to have more and more in mind, not only in Denmark, but around the world. The climate agenda is the number one in the last few polls in Denmark, and, of course, worldwide it also fills more and more in the light of the challenges we face. I have only been in the Folketing for four years, so I stand on the shoulders of a lot of other much more knowledgeable and much more gifted people, and I will actually let some of their hearing answers speak for themselves. First of all, I would like to thank those parties, including local authorities, who have chosen to set up the subway. I would like to thank them for making some decisions and for increasing mobility. As rapporteur on transport, transport and mobility, I am also concerned about this. Could we have found other solutions? No doubt we could, but there was no political majority in favour of this. Could you find an alternative to the subway that is more sustainable? I'm sure you could. All other things being equal, I appreciate the metro, but I am not happy with the process that has been here. We are breaking with 100 years of procedure in relation to conservation and to the conservation board, and I think that is very unfortunate. The Danish Nature Conservation Association says it is unprecedented. I quote from their hearing answer: "It is thus without comparable precedent and openly contrary to the intentions of the Nature Conservation Act... If the bill is decided, it will be the first time in 100 years that the Folketing will short-lived a democratic process which should have taken place in the Conservation Board, since this body is geared to assessing whether there are sufficient overriding social considerations in favour of repealing it. I think this is important to bear in mind, because we are just sitting here and elected representatives, and perhaps none of us are engineers or have been advocates and advocates of or researchers in the climate and environment, yet we sometimes allow ourselves to short-circuit processes which have been democratically adopted and which have been in force for 100 years. The Free Air Council writes: "The Free Air Council finds it quite unusual and unheard of that existing conservations are abolished by law in order to meet the distressed economy of a state and municipal partnership... The green areas in the City of Copenhagen are under pressure. Our town is growing, and new constructions are booming. Long-term strategic planning is needed to ensure and preserve green breathing holes for recreation and outdoor life. But it's not just these green organizations and fiery souls that are critical. Danish Occupation is also critical. It is then mostly to the liberal bloc that I am speaking now: Dansk Arbejd also notes that the draft law generally violates the current practice of abolishing protections. It is not customary for the Folketing alone to abolish protections, but for such matters to be dealt with by the relevant conservation board. Danish Businesses would like to see clarity and stability on conservation matters so that both private and public organisations can know for sure in the procedure. Breaking this practice creates uncertainty about the conservation process. So when we say in the Alternative that we cannot support the proposal, it is not really because we are against better mobility. It is not really because we are opposed to taking good, thorough decisions democratically and decentralisedly, as the City of Copenhagen has done, or to taking it even further into the joints. However, we are opposed to breaking democratic processes, as are the answers to the hearings, and not just making sure that we are not just looking at the greens, but on the basis of real intentions, about the few natural areas and the scarce greens that we actually have left. I am 42 years old, and more species have died out alone in the time I have lived than in centuries before me. We can easily keep saying things, but if we do not act on them, there will actually be no real change. It is action that brings and brings about change. With those comments, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142250	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142254	I understand from the rapporteur's speech that it is the process that is very much opposed in the Alternative and, for good reason, in fact, I think. I'll get back to that in my own speech. There is good reason to object to the process. But what is it that drives the alternative? Is it the process, or is it the building of protected areas? Does the alternative have such a principle that one cannot build on protected areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142321-2	There have been several stages in this process, and at the outset we would like to avoid the idea of building on protected areas at all. This has been said several times by our urban roots in Copenhagen. But since it was not possible because there was no political majority in favour of this, they had to come up with alternative funding options themselves. So the first thing to finance it through the municipal treasury was not a majority in favour. Then they themselves suggested, as far as I understand, some other areas which, according to their statements, had an even lower value, which were protected. So I cannot stand by and say that we are against building protected areas, but I can say that we are against the process and would also have liked to have been against building on protected areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142413	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142415	Yes, we have at least once again made it clear that it is the process that is opposed in the alternative, but not to build on protected areas. For the alternative itself has proposed building, among other things. in the protected areas north of Vejlands Allé into the colonial gardens Sønderbro and the harbour, and that the area on the west of Amager was built towards the Kalveboderne, also called Selinevej. So here the alternative has itself played its part in simply building on protected areas. So what the alternative is against here is merely the formal, procedural, but not actually the fact that one is based on protected areas. So the fact that you say that you are green and that you look after nature makes you rich in some processes, but the alternative really wants to build on protected areas. There is just a difference between process and content, but as far as content is concerned, you are fully involved in building on protected areas. That is something that has been played into Copenhagen itself, and I hear that too, Mr President. Roger Courage Matthisen confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142507	Thank you. First of all, we were opposed to building on the protected areas. But yes, then there was no political majority, and then we would like to accommodate it. Often we are told that we have to participate and that we do not want to participate, that we stand outside, that we have to enter into the broad compromises. So it was a compromise. But these are not all the reasons that have been laid out here in the draft law where we had recommended saying: okay, then we make a compromise and then we build on them. So that way, I can't entirely support the fact that we could just say yes because it's just the process. And then the question is: why not just keep to the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142541	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142545	There is no doubt that I am very fond of the alternative, and your great commitment to the green is something I really am excited about. However, I am somewhat puzzled that the rapporteur is talking about the fact that our actions alone are decorative green. I believe that the metro must be one of the most important things in terms of ensuring a real switch from black traffic to more green traffic, and the rapporteur must agree that we would not have gotten this metro if it were not because we actually sold some land so we could finance it. How would the rapporteur have imagined we would be implementing this metro project if it weren't after this model? Does the rapporteur have the imagination to imagine that we alone should finance it? Is that the alternative model?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142633	There are many other possibilities for funding. I do not think that is a premise I would like to acknowledge. At Lynetteholmen there will be 35,000 citizens in the future, so it is not because there are no other areas in Copenhagen on which we can build, but the question is just whether we should build on valuable nature or not. I am therefore sorry if the rapporteur feels pricked by the expression 'green decorating', but now it is not we who will continue to pull fossil fuels out of the North Sea, and there are many other climate and environmental measures that the Social Democrats support, but which we do not support. So when I mean decorate green, I mean strategies that are not effective enough, within the green transition. I hope the rapporteur can accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142716	Thank you, sir. Roger Matthisen. Then there are no more comments, and so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142731	In the Radical Left, we are very pleased that with this bill we can finally confirm that there is no building on the Beach on the Amager Common. It was a matter for the Radical Left in the City of Copenhagen, and we are pleased that we first got an agreement in Copenhagen's Citizens' Representation and later here in the Danish Parliament, and now it is also expected that there is a majority in Parliament for this bill. We think it's good to free a unique piece of nature in such a big city. It is not many places in the world that you see that there is this kind of nature in a big city. Instead of building the Beach, you build three other areas. There are two parties here today who have said that they are against it. We think it is right for nature and for Copenhagen to go in and take responsibility and make sure that there is not built on the Beach, but instead solves the challenge that arises by not building there, by finding some other areas that have less natural value. So we think that a solution has been found to a problem that has arisen here in Copenhagen, and that is what we think is sensible, and it also means that metro is being built. As Mr. Rasmus Prehn of the Social Democratic Party mentioned there is a concern from among others. Denmark's Nature Conservation Association on whether it will be everyday in the Danish Parliament that we cancel conservations alone in order to get some money in. That's where I want to go, too, like Mr. Knox. Rasmus Prehn and others said, "No, it should not be a precedent that we do it one day after another." We do that in this particular case to find a solution so that there is no building on the Beach. With those words, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142932	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219142947	Thank you to the rapporteur for explaining fairly clearly the views of the Radical Left. I therefore share the rapporteur's enthusiasm for the failure to build the Beach, but how will the rapporteur ensure that the Beach does not, for example, work? being cut through by paved paths?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143014	This is an issue I think the rapporteur should raise with the Minister for the Environment. I know that we want to help protect the Beach now. That is what was the challenge when the Beach was not protected for some reason; that is why construction plans were started there. We in the Radical Left would like to cooperate with the Enhedslisten to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143033	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143034	Excellent, I hope so, so we can get this done. However, in order to keep to the process, I would like to say that this is, of course, a legal solution that is being proposed. What is the Radical Left's position that this is happening with a law rather than doing what it should be doing, namely going to the Protection Board to have the peacekeeping operation lifted? Would that not be the right way to deal with the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143109	Yes, and as I said in my speech, this should not be a precedent. This is a very special thing we are doing for two reasons: to ensure that there is not built on the Beach, and also that such a large majority in the City of Copenhagen, that is our local democracy here in Copenhagen, has said that this is what they want to do to ensure the economy of City & Port, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143132	Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143135	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the speech and for answering questions. The rapporteur was almost already given an answer to the question by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I wondered a little about the argument, because the rapporteur said in his question to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, when he was on the platform, that if we do not build here, we are building on the Beach. It was like that gun rhetoric that was. But now the rapporteur has recognised that we could also just keep to the conservation process instead; we could also find an alternative solution for building. So the question is this: is the rapporteur aware of the fact that Lynetteholmen, for example, has been in a position to do so? Is the government's strategy popping up and that 35 000 homes and an equal number of jobs are being talked about there if they are being implemented? There are lots of challenges with that project, but it's just to illustrate, there is of course always the opportunity to look at other areas that can be built and developed. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143235	I think that all the contributions made by the Alternative today tell us very well what the alternative is like. It is very difficult to make decisions and make choices. For of course you can find 117 other ways to solve this, but now there are some parties in Copenhagen and now here in the Danish Parliament who go in and take responsibility and say: Now we don't get built on the Beach in return we do this instead. And then you can stand with 117 other things. I could understand that, sir. Karsten Hønge, who says over here that the alternative itself has proposed to take in some other protected areas. But what we just have to say is that the alternative is not in a position to go in and take responsibility and find a solution. And then the alternative to the alternative was that the beach had been built instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143324	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. It's pretty interesting with that strawman, isn't it? We're not in because we don't want to take responsibility. You know, if you're shooting a dog with a gun to make a new strawman and I'm not gonna shoot it, but it's for the good of the dog, I'm not taking responsibility. But have you searched other options? No, we can't afford to get the dog to the hospital. We need a decision now. We need to build a subway now. That's the strawman you're doing. However, the rapporteur is not ready to recognise the conservation process.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143401	We should remember that we do not use direct charges, even when it comes to dogs, here in the Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143408	I think we should stop shooting any dogs, too today. I don't think it's a strawman. The alternative has not been able either in Copenhagen's citizens' representation or here in the Danish Parliament to go in and help make a solution. Instead, the alternative is based on all sorts of other solutions which do not need to go in and make some priorities. I think that tells a lot about the alternative's way of acting. Of course, a different solution could have been found. Now this solution was found, and if this solution had not been found, the Beach would have been built.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143444	We thank Andreas Steenberg and move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143451	It is hardly surprising that the SF is in general for this bill because we are in the agreement of 25 October 2018 together with the overwhelming majority of the Danish Parliament's parties. When I say in general terms, it is because today we have to deal specifically with a legislative text, and here we have some proposals for improvements. I'll get back to that. However, on 23 May 2017 the Committee on the Environment and Food wrote a report on B 47 on the Amager Common presented by Enhedslisten and Alternativet. SF was and agrees with the two parties that Amager Common should be freed from construction, and, like the Alternative and Enhedslisten, we were at that time particularly concerned about preventing construction on the Beach, which in this bill is called the Ørestad Common Quarter. The SF then tabled, together with the Radical Left, an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, which, moreover, the two parties supported, but which did not receive a majority in this Chamber. It was as follows: The Danish Parliament instructs the government to carry out a mapping of alternative financing options for the metro construction to avoid the planned construction at the Amager Common. The survey is carried out in collaboration between the State and the City of Copenhagen. Unfortunately, it did not happen because there was no majority in favour of it. Unfortunately, the government was not imposed on anything. On the other hand, something happened in Copenhagen, where a majority wanted to preserve the Beach for construction. The building has instead moved to other places on the Amager Common, which does not have the same natural value as the Beach, but of course they have a recreational value. I am actually pleased that a majority has been found in Copenhagen to free the Beach. And there is neither the Danish Parliament nor the City of Copenhagen's majority for other solutions that can completely free Amager Common from construction. That is why I can say that, in the course of the committee's examination of the draft law, the SF will raise a number of points. One of them is contemporaryism. There's an imbalance in the bill. The peace is immediately abolished according to the bill of 1 April, while it is left to the normal procedure of conservation boards to preserve the Beach. It mostly takes some time, and that is why we propose that we look at bringing the peacekeeping measures into effect when the Beach is protected by the Peace Board for Copenhagen. Another thing we want to address is what we consider to be an unnecessary degree of detail. Following the consultation process, the draft law has been amended so that legislation lays down provisions which, we believe, should be dealt with by the local planning process. This applies to precise directions, for example. consideration of increased movement on the Beach. We would also like to ask some questions about how we can ensure that the Conservation Board really protects the Beach, or whether construction on the Lærkesletten prevents the conservation of the Beach, because it is near new construction and increases the movement on the Beach. After all, there is no guarantee that the Protection Board will preserve the area in the new situation. Could the Conservation Board make a statement on this, yes, could it not at all have the Protection Board give its opinion on the whole bill, and has the government made such a probe at all? The fourth thing we want to raise is that in the legislative proposal there is a case where the proposal provides, directly or indirectly, a derogation for matters relevant to the conservations that exist after the entry into force of the law. The rest of the protected Amager Common will be affected by the construction. I am in favour of creating a vvm in connection with the local planning phase, but could there indirectly be an impact, a strain on other areas that are still protected, in a way that threatens the very cause of the conservation, then, in SF's opinion, it should be put forward during the legislative work. Furthermore, it is unfortunate that the draft law does not implement a vvm at the same time as the three areas are being transcribed, because the outcome of a subsequent vvm can make it difficult to include the protected areas for construction, so that the adoption of the bill alone will be a signal that it is possible, therefore, if there are economic interests that override a conservation. Fifthly, we also believe that a proper impact assessment of the law, or at least the local planning process, should be carried out in relation to the Natura 2000 protected areas. A vvm is not enough when it comes to Natura 2000 protection. Finally, and not least, the SF believes that while this bill is being examined, the Folketing must find a way to agree with each other on different ways of indicating that it should only be in absolute exceptional cases that the Folketing is pleased with areas. It is clear that we cannot oblige ourselves or a future Parliament not to do so, but perhaps we can find in the report a text that is so supportive of the fact that this is a special situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143956	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219143959	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a speech which, far more than I expected, takes nature seriously in this matter. Did I hear correctly that the rapporteur had a concern about building on the Lærkesletten in relation to what it might have consequences for the Beach? Could the rapporteur clarify this a little for me: can we, with perhaps 4,500 new residents in the Lærkesletten, even keep the Beach in some sort of protected state?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144036	I know that more people in Copenhagen work with different options. It could be a raised wooden bridge across the area. It could then also solve the problem that is regularly in the area: it is being flooded. So this whole thing about there having to be a paved, lit way over, I think it would be a bad investment, in that it's being flooded. So both in terms of ensuring the future of the movement, but also to ensure that animals and other things can move freely, one could imagine that it is at least the thoughts I have heard that are being thought in the City of Copenhagen that one had a raised wooden bridge. This could be one of several options, but it is clear that we cannot look at asphalting roads across a protected area which is a horror example that has been taken forward. It's not gonna last at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144123	If you can't find any decent solutions to free the Beach from the loads that might be involved in such a violent building right next door, could you imagine that SF will withdraw its support for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144144	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144144-2	We have complete confidence that the Copenhagen local democracy will be able to deal with this. I mean, it's people who live here. I also assume that they have a great interest in protecting the breathing holes that exist. So I do not see it at all for me that they should have any interest whatsoever in going in to destroy any nature in the area where they themselves live.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144207	Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144210	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for speaking and answering questions. I think that the rapporteur has come along with very important and good reflections. In fact, it was a little in line with Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm's question about whether SF is ready to withdraw the support. How many people do it take in demonstrations, in common friends, in friends of various resident associations and democracies and local associations, before the rapporteur believes that this is actually a substantial amount of citizens who believe that this has a negative effect to such an extent that the rapporteur's party will abide by the conservation processes which are actually how many people around? I do not know whether the rapporteur has a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144258	Well, I have decided that because the way I count, whether there is support for it or not, I am doing this through the will of the electorate, who was quite recently expressed through the people they have put into Copenhagen's citizens' representation, and there is, of course, a massive majority in favour of this solution. I am sure that if the alternative and perhaps the Enhedslisten had been included in the conciliation, it could also have been influenced in a further positive direction, but there is an overwhelming majority both in Copenhagen's citizens' representation and here in the Danish Parliament for this solution. The conclusion is: The overall picture of conservations and new conservations is positive for nature. On the other hand, we are very concerned about the process that has been set in motion, which I know is also a major concern of the alternative, and that is why I think it could be part of this work that we get a plug in, a manifestation of the fact that this is an unusual situation, and it is not something where people in the country should go and get good ideas and where they have mayors and other entrepreneurial types who think they are going to build on protected areas. We will be very careful whether we can find a way to put that plug in it so that in future we follow the procedure of going around the conservation boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144407	Thank you. I also noticed that was one of the points made by the rapporteur, precisely how we subsequently ensure that we do not short-circuit these processes. So it's really fine. Now the rapporteur is the big brother of what to say about the city councils. After all, there is a reason why the bill comes in here, and that is because it needs national support in relation to our legislation. So since you're a big brother, are you going to use that position to say that, of course, we're not going out to damage or in any other way harm nature in the protected areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144446	No, there's the picture all wrong. Because we're not big brother. SF is a very decentralized thinking party. We are some who actually have a lot of eyes on the grass roots, on the Members, where we listen to what they are doing. We are actually a party that does not see ourselves as someone else. On the contrary, if anyone's above us, it's actually the locals. That is why I am just saying: if there are other options, where you can find other areas, you can agree in that conciliation circle and trade them with these, we are completely open to it. This isn't because we think it's completely brilliant about the areas that have been taken out here. We are very open to finding others, but that only requires a majority in Copenhagen's citizens' representation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144522	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144523	Thank you. Now I am not going to interfere in SF's internal affairs, but as a candidate for parliament in Copenhagen, I have heard that SF's departments in Copenhagen are not so happy with this bill. But let it go. I'd like to ask Mr. Karsten Hønge, how it agrees that in the SF, on the one hand, the question of conservation and conservation should go through the Conservation Board and, on the other hand, it is intended to support building on the Stejle Square in the South Harbour, that is to say, that the area should be satisfied. - Sir... Karsten Hønge doesn't well see that it seems a little double?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144605-2	I fully acknowledge that this process is not optimal in SF's view. It's not. But that was what could be achieved, and I am sure once again that if the Enhedslisten and the Alternative in Copenhagen had remained in the conciliation circle and had tried to take it in the right direction, we could have had a different result and perhaps a better result. So this is what you had the opportunity to do, and in this context I am not going to interfere in Enhedslisten's dealings with economics like this, but in SF we are actually a party that pays our bills. We like the metro we're excited about the metro and the difference to the Enhedslisten and the Alternative is that SF is also paying the bills, so this bill has to be paid. In addition, Copenhagen grows with 1,000 people a month. For me, far away from it, it's incomprehensible that it can grow so much over here... what are people doing here? But it then grows with 1,000 people a month, so there must be housing for them, and we have to pay the bill for the metro, and the two things SF is a party that wants to solve. But in the future, we would like to work to ensure that we get the fence in, that this was an extraordinary situation. This was a situation which had to resolve some very specific problems, but we believe that it must be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144707	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144709	The Enhedslisten is also a party that wants to secure housing. I've read too, sir. Karsten Hønge, that SF is a party that, in addition to wanting to secure housing and metro, wants to ensure more wild nature. In fact, it is something you have presented last year that should be a requirement for a hopefully new majority. How does this relate to wilder nature, then, to the fact that you are now going to disarm this area in Copenhagen, which is in fact one of the only places we have left in Copenhagen, where we have some urban nature, and which is at least my impression that the Copenhageners are quite happy about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144748	Yes, and now I will further support Mrs Rosa Lund's argument by saying that it is not only natural values that are at stake here. In our view, there are also very strong cultural values at stake in Stejlepladsen. So I am fully aware that it is partly about nature and partly about cultural values that are worth protecting. That's absolutely clear. I just have to say that we take the overall picture, the overall balance of conservation and conservation. There is a need to pay a bill and there is a need for housing for Copenhageners. In the total equation, we think we can vouch for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144817	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144829	The bill here can be seen with the background of the agreement reached in October last year, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, and it provides the legal basis for land to be developed by City & Harbour, and to ensure that the Ørestad Fælledkvarter is freed for settlement and conservation, and that the area, like swapping for the area north of Vejlands Allé and Selinevej Nord and Bodenhavnsgade East, is kept from low to high natural value. Finally, the bill also provides for Bellahøjmarken to extend the opening hours and also the facilities. They are allowed to expand the facilities at the campsite so that they are made more up-to-date. We, the Conservative People's Party, can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144930	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144934	Thank you. What is the rapporteur's position with regard to the situation in which it is proposed to change an area by law rather than to go through the Protection Board, which would be the normal channel to go through if an area were to be tranquilized?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219144955	Well, this is an agreement where you have to look at it as, what should you say, a compromise in relation to some issues that have had to be resolved partly in relation to this balance in the financing of Metro Cityringen and partly in order to expand the planned housing and occupation in the City of Copenhagen. At the same time, of course, we attach great importance to the fact that it is now becoming an area of high natural value which is now being protected rather than an area of low natural value which applies to the other three areas. It's like some of what we weighted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145039-2	Now I do not agree that you can just trade for protections, because there is a reason why the Plain and the Stejle Square have been protected, among other things. link in a greater conservation. But we can leave that alone. Instead, I would like to ask the rapporteur: the people who then live in private homes close to Stejle Square in the South Harbour have bought and built these homes in supposed expectation that a protected area next door was a place that could give the glory that belongs to the dwelling. What will the rapporteur say to those people who now live on an area which is likely to be built on a large number of floors, right in front of their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145131	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145132	First of all, I would like to say that this is not something that should set a precedent for the future as we always do things. As far as I know, there has been a similar case with which to compare a little, as far back as the late 1990s. And otherwise it's not something we use to do like this. As I understand it, there have also been objections from residents, and it is clear, of course, that this is something that must always be listened to. I would assume that they have listened to in the Copenhagen Citizens' Representation and have taken part in their deliberations on this matter. And, of course, you always have to listen when citizens object.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145218	Thank you. No more brief remarks, we thank the rapporteur, and then it is the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145229	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim of the bill is to allow City & Port to develop a number of areas to replace the development of the Ørestad Common Quarter. It has been intended to develop the Ørestad Common Quarter since the Ørestad Act was adopted in 1992. However, in the autumn of 2017, the Mayor of Copenhagen announced that a majority of Copenhagen's citizens' representation had opposed helping to implement the necessary local planning for the planned construction at the Ørestad Common Quarter. This was allegedly due to concerns about building an area of high natural value. The City of Copenhagen has subsequently carried out a comprehensive study of alternative building fields to compensate for the cancelled construction. The study is available on the Copenhagen Municipality's website. As part of the 2019 budget agreement, Copenhagen's citizens' representation has concluded an agreement which means that the planned construction at Ørestad Fælled Kvarter will be replaced by construction on alternative building fields with lower natural value. On 25 October 2018, the Government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left signed a similar agreement to replace the building at the Ørestad Common Quarter. The bill will put this agreement into effect. The draft law must include, inter alia: ensure that the Ørestad Common Quarter cannot be built. The draft law also provides for the possibility of a conservation action in this area, in accordance with the general rules laid down in the Nature Conservation Act. The alternative building fields which City & Harbour should instead be able to develop are today protected. The bill must therefore abolish the protections in these areas. This ensures that areas with high natural value, i.e. the Ørestad Common Quarter, are preserved, as construction is moved to areas with lower natural value, predominantly former landfills and landfill areas. Popularly speaking, conservation for areas of low natural value is exchanged for an area of high natural value. The bill will also provide the opportunity to develop and extend the facilities at Bellahøj Camping to modern standards. This means, in concrete terms, that the current conservation provisions for Bellahøjmarken need to be amended. Bellahøj Camping thus becomes a real alternative to the campsite that was otherwise planned at Amager Fælled on the so-called campsite, which is now instead proposed designed for housing. In conclusion, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions that the members of the committee might have on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145533	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Roger Courage Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145537	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for further clarification. However, the Minister has written in a comment in the hearings that the Ministry's assessment is not only that the extension of the Copenhagen Metro Cityring constitutes an important social concern. So it's infrastructure that's taken over here... just the economy... so with that principle, all protected nature can be sold for housing if the purpose is to secure funding for an infrastructure project. Is it true that this is how we should understand that assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145622	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145623	What is correct is that the Folketing can, by law, disenfranchise areas if the Folketing so wishes. That is our democracy, and I have heard Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen lectures the Folketing that the process which is taking place today, when an elected assembly in the Folketing decides that there are some considerations that are more important than some others, is not democratic. Instead, Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen to a conservation board consisting of three members, two of whom are appointed by the Minister for the Environment and the last by the local municipality. This body, designated by the executive, was supposed to be more democratic, according to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, than the Folketing, which consists of people directly elected by the people. I can only say that if Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen is serious. Roger Courage Matthisen a very twisted concept of what a democracy is. I think sir... Roger Courage Matthisen hasn't thought about it properly and just says it because it sounds good. But that doesn't change the fact that it's not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145729	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145730	It could be that, when I say democratically, I also think that we should have some insight. The fact that I am elected does not mean that I have 20, 30 or 50 years of experience in the field of environment and nature. Then it gives me permission, because I'm elected, to overhear those who know anything about it? I do not think so. I believe that this is an abuse of the democratic authority that is being given. So the question here is: is it in the future that the Minister will press the conservation boards to see that this is where they should place emphasis on housing rather than on protected land? Is it the view of the Minister that conservation boards are now about to expand their interpretation? Because that is what the Minister writes in his reply here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145812-2	In a democracy, it is not about who has the insight, but about people feeling represented and represented and that every human being has a value as a decision-maker in this country on an equal footing with other people in this country, whether you have a master's degree or not. I think it is sensible in some cases to have wise people making decisions, and that is why I think the conservation boards have an important function in this society. However, the conservation boards cannot assess in a democratic way whether it is more important to have a conservation of the former landfill site than it is to get a subway to the South Harbour. The conservation boards cannot assess this because the conservation boards on this issue are not experts. On the other hand, we in the Folketing are elected experts on behalf of the people, in relation to what is important in this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145910	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145911	Following on from this, it might sound as if the Minister is completely in control of weighting the different natural values on one reason or another. At least that is what the Minister said in his speech, that is to say that we are now trading one conservation with the other and that it can be just as good or actually better. But what about the cultural values that are, after all, down in the fishing port, where Stejlepladsen is located, which, of course, gives a unique story about Copenhagen's history, which will be worth preserving for cultural reasons? What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219145954	I am concerned about this in that we are faced with different considerations here. The various considerations have initially been weighed down by Copenhagen's citizens' representation, elected people, where a majority has decided that it is more important to provide funding for the City & Port, which can finance an extension of the subway to the South Harbour than it is to preserve a conservation that is here about Stejlepladsen. It is a political decision that has been made. There are various considerations that have been weighted by elected representatives. No expert can weigh that. It must necessarily be a democratic decision, not an expert decision, whether it is most important to get the subway to the South Harbour or whether it is most important to preserve the concrete conservation that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150052	The questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150055	In other words, we have to note that, according to the Minister's view, there are only some democratic balances here and no natural or cultural differences. We take note of that. Then I'd like to hear about something else. In terms of building the Lærkesletten, what the Minister calls the campsite, it is a violent settlement. How will the Minister ensure that the area which he wants to preserve, i.e. the Beach, can be preserved and, for example, preserved? are not exposed to path construction or other wear and tear?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150138	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150139	I think that everyone who hears this debate, including the young people who are sitting in the gallery today, should now know the background to the manipulation that the Enhedslisten rapporteur stands for here. What Enhedslisten's rapporteur now calls the Plain of Lærkeslet is a new name that has been invented because one would like to claim that it is a place of great natural value. Originally the place was called the Land of Loss, because it consists of filling it with a lot of garbage that has subsequently passed over some land. For a time it was then called Campingground because you wanted on top of this garbage with land over having a campsite. In the battle for this to become an area that must not be built on, some people, including Enhedslisten, have decided to call it Lærkesletten. That is the reason for that word.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150226	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150230	Thank you. Then I shall try to stay out of what the Minister chooses completely failed to call manipulation. The minister talks about elected representatives who have made some decisions. I would like to ask the Minister and the government whether it makes no impression at all that the people, in other words those who live there, are very much opposed to disarming this area. It must make an impression that those who live right next door, those who use this area, that is to say those of us who live in Copenhagen, do not want this area to be disarmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150308	Oh, Enhedslisten, it's the same every time. When elected bodies, i.e. the people, those who have elected the citizens' representation of Copenhagen, those who have elected the members of the Folketing, decide something, the Enhedslisten says that the real people are not the ones who have elected the elected assemblies, but they are the ones who shout the loudest in a local debate. It is a cook from television who lives in the area, who has easy access to the media, who are the people, whereas the people who have been elected by the people through a democratic process are not the right people; it is simply not democracy. It is one of the untruths that Enhedslisten uses to promote its ultrasocialist agenda. It designates certain groups with certain interests to be the real people, while those who have elected the elected assemblies are taken aside, because it is not the right people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150410	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150412	I am not sure that the people who live in the South Harbour generally think that they have easy access to the media, but leave it at that. I would like to go a little further, because I feel that the Minister is not going to give any response to the fact that those who live next to this area do not want it to be satisfied. I just have to ask the Minister in the future whether it will be the case that municipalities can just come to the Folketing and ask for a quiet area because they have to build something for profit or because they have to pay a bill. Can this government guarantee that we will not see a lot of legislative proposals to defuse areas because there are some municipalities that have to pay some bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150453	Well, if it's up to the Enhedslisten, it's always the shouting among the neighbors and those who are opponents of the neighbors who should be allowed to set the agenda. Therefore, you cannot build a college tower on Nørrebro, because there are some of Enhedslisten's voters who do not want to have new neighbours, and therefore students should not have a place to live there. That's Enhedslisten's policy. You just talk the loudest special interest groups at the mouth. In this way, the Enhedslisten is a mailbox to which special interest groups can send their wishes, and then, on behalf of these groups, the Enhedslisten will make the proposals from the Parliament's platform. Yes, anyone can come and ask the Folketing to make a peace, but one must have good arguments for the Folketing to do so. In this case one has very good arguments because one gets more nature with the conservation that lies, and one also gets a metro to the South Harbour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150544	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150607	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219150613	With this bill it is proposed that what is called DSB Ejendomme will have better opportunities to sell out of their land and their properties so that you can create development, innovation and innovation around them. All in all, it is tremendously positive, and it is something that can create dynamism, change and development around, while at the same time ensuring that DSB gets some money in the box, which they will then be able to spend on something sensible. Now it is clear that this proposal is, after all, the implementation of the growth agreement that the government has made together with a few other parties back in 2017, where it is planned to save on DSB. So it is not the case that with this proposal we can easily see that DSB can use this as a tool to strengthen DSB, and we Social Democrats are sorry about that. But the very fact that you can give DSB Properties the opportunity to sell from, enter into a partnership, develop and so on, we are extremely positive about the Social Democrats. To give an example where you have done something similar, you can take the freight lane area that is at Aalborg. I think most people have tried to arrive at Aalborg Railway Station, and in the immediate vicinity there is the former estate area, and together with some developers and Aalborg Municipality, we have secured a tremendously exciting urban renewal in this area. Where previously there were rangers and other, there are now educational institutions, there are cheap housing, there are youth housing and other, and there is a whole lot of growth, development and innovation. It is, of course, politics at the very best, in other words, that we can bring about change and development. So we Social Democrats are very, very positive about doing that elsewhere. What we are a little puzzled about is that in a situation where we talk a lot about fighting congestion, that we have to have a green transition, that we have to have fewer cars that emit CO2 We generally find that customers think that DSB needs a vitamin injection, for improvements, and what is then the government and blue block response is that we just take a few hundred million kroner from DSB, and then it will help something. Frankly, we are sceptical about this by the Social Democrats; we think that this is the wrong way to go and we believe that DSB should be developed so that it becomes more attractive to drive public traffic rather than less attractive. Now that we are talking about development, improvement, etc., it is obvious that DSB will use this opportunity to ensure more life, commitment and service for example. DSB stations and stations. It is sad to see that the citizens who choose to take the train come down to a station that is closed off; there is no longer access to a toilet; where there was a kiosk in the past, there is now a large sticker for the window that shows that it is closed off; there is no possibility of buying a cup of coffee with etc.; there's no heat on; and you can't sit and relax before you go on the train. It's a bad service. There we Social Democrats would like to call for this opportunity to get some life back into the stations, so it will be safe, it will be nice and it will be good to be at the station. Maybe you can go to a kiosk or a café and buy yourself a cup of coffee. At Hobro Station you and the municipality have chosen to co-operate, so there is a social economic café where young people with special challenges and problems get to stand in this café and lubricate a sandwich and a bun and make a cup of coffee. It is then for their benefit that they are allowed to try hard with the labour market but it is certainly also for the benefit of the many passengers who would like to get on the train and have something to put hungry with or a cup of coffee to drink on the way on the train. So we also need a lot more of this kind of innovation. So this bill contains some good things; there are positive elements in it, but we Social Democrats are saddened by the element of saving DSB when what we really need is to make DSB stronger, to make DSB better and to make DSB more attractive. So we reject that and, overall, we are not voting for the proposal as it stands here. But the very possibility of selling out and making cooperation and other things is very positive, so we will have to ask, and we will perhaps be tabling amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151111	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151113	I very much agree with Mr. Rasmus Prehn's criticism of the bill is the whole connection to the fact that this is part of the savings made in DSB. But I noted in particular the last part of the speech, which is very much about the fact that it is also about creating life at stations. Rasmus Prehn made a lot of it, especially lately, and I think that's really good. It should be borne in mind that the property development in which DSB is to be incorporated through its subsidiary DSB Ejendomme or DSB Ejendomsudvikling must take place with partners and must always take place at market price. Of course, I think you could question that. Why should it always take place at market prices? There is a need for cheap housing; there is no doubt in Copenhagen that DSB has a large, large real estate portfolio with a high value. Or you could in connection with some of those companies, like Mr. Rasmus Prehn refers to the social economic enterprises or other types of companies that cooperate with municipalities, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151225	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151227	Well, thank you very much, sir. Henning Hyllested for his as always committed post. It's nice to feel that Enhedslisten is passionate about this area, just as we Social Democrats are. Something must happen at our stations; there must be a better service. In many places you also find that even these ticket machines are moved from the station area to the platform, so that customers can stand in the rain and solve the ticket. Well, it could be really, really nice for once to experience that what was in focus was the customers, the passengers, and that you actually wanted to provide a good service. So if we can be a part of it with the Enhedslisten, we would really like that. After all, in the agreement on better and cheaper public transport, we have set aside money for rethinking in this area, so we are hoping for a step in this direction. And yes, there is a set of rules as to whether we can act outside market conditions and other things, so it's not as easy as Mr. Henning Hyllested makes it sound. But the Hobroeksempellet is good, and we may be able to get some more municipalities on the field in terms of thinking new and different. I also think in all modesty that the example of Aalborg, which has created a tremendously exciting development on the former railway area, is an example to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151337	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151339	Well, I totally agree that this is not unproblematic. But if we think a little visionary, it would be nice if the DSB were to be involved in dealing with a public authority or a public company................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So there is the whole thinking that has crept into our society, about the state of competition, and what I know, liberalism and so on. and so on, but perhaps we could instead put the emphasis somewhere else and allow for some development, not necessarily at market price.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151422	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151423	We Social Democrats are concerned that we may have to comply with the rules in relation to competition law and other matters. So it is set aside, but our approach to this is, of course, that we want to look at the possibilities rather than the problems, and there we would really like to have a close dialogue, including with Enhedslisten, in relation to getting more of what we have been looking at, for example. Hobro Station with a social economic company. There are so many options instead of just shutting down stations with pulled through and closed toilets.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151457	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151459	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn for someone who's always engaged in speech. I took note of the fact that Mr. Rasmus Prehn came to say something about the fact that it was very bad that it was like aiming to make DSB more efficient and thus lower the contract payment. Is it for the Social Democratic Party itself a goal to maintain the current high contract payment to DSB, or is the Social Democratic Party in their previous policy that this contract payment could be reduced gradually over the years, among other things, with the aim of freeing up money for forward-looking investment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151537-2	Thank you for the also committed speech by the Left. It is quite true that what is the objective is to have a more effective DSB. What is our concern is that right now and here, where there are a whole lot of challenges with track work, with electrification and with a signal programme that causes some problems, and other things, we think: we put in a straight line with a regular economic wedgie in the form of a saving. We don't think that's the right way to do it. We do not think it is timely care. However, we have noted that DSB itself has said that their objective is that, by 2030, you can drive without State aid, without subsidies, and that is a development that we support and which we would also like to see for ourselves. We just think it's unnecessary when you face all these challenges and I forgot to mention the many long-distance buses that go in and take a lot of these customers; it's of course positive for those who can come by a long-distance bus. But DSB has many challenges at the moment, and there we want to ensure a vitamin injection and an improvement in DSB, rather than pulling out money when DSB has the hardest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151645	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151648	Could it be imagined that the money that could possibly be released could go to something as visionary as creating better parking facilities at stations, for example? For cyclists? If we want more passengers on the train I think the Social Democratic Party shares that ambition with the Left, it is quite central that it is possible for people to get on another means of transport and then jump onto the train. So I guess it's not only bad if some money can be released that we can use for investment, for example. in that cyclists can get a really good parking space and some high quality parking conditions at the stations and the same goes for drivers, for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151729-2	We in the Socialist Group also believe that this is an incredibly strong vision. What is the case with this bill is that it is based on an agreement, as Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's own party has entered into a growth agreement in which the money saved by DSB is to be spent on some targeted things, and I am aware that we would like DSB itself to be allowed to do something more with this money, among other things. to promote it, that you can combine different modes of transport, i.e. that you can cycle to the station and jump onto a train or take your car to the station and jump onto a train. This is the kind of development that we need to have to make it more attractive to drive by train, thereby driving climate-friendly and helping to combat hardship.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151810	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn. I apologise for coming at the last minute when the rapporteur was on his way down the platform, a brief remark from Mr Seligman. Roger Courage Matthisen, and we're gonna bring that in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151827	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and good reflections. I may have come out a bit, but I could not quite tell whether the rapporteur thinks that the whole construction of the economy between the two companies should be merged, or what was it like?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151848	What our criticism was more about is that when you make this sale of property, the intention here in the proposal that the government has put forward is that the proceeds should be used to finance some other projects that the government has agreed with the Danish People's Party and the Radicals in this growth agreement. We could see from the Social Democrats that it could be used to strengthen public transport or to strengthen the link between public transport and other modes of transport, including bicycles and cars, with these parking lots. That's what was our business. That you have a special company structure with DSB Properties, I think at first sight is very sensible, and we are not going to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151933	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151935	I just pressed in when the rapporteur replied lately because it was actually just that in relation to the consultation answers, in other words the danger of confusing interests with public subsidies and so on. But thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151948	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Prehn, there are no more brief remarks. And then we move on to Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219151956	Thank you. It has to be said that we are getting around with this bill. I have no objection now to restricting the subsidy to DSB, and I have not, because DSB itself has said that it will be possible to drive on commercial terms in just a few years' time. What interests me in this proposal is that I think it is excellent if you can start to develop on the large property portfolio that lies with DSB, especially if you can perhaps also earmark some of the proceeds to get a little more life on all those stations, get some toilets opened and maybe get some cheap housing built. I just have a fear that the investors mentioned here, pension funds, real estate companies, property developers, etc., are not people who grind without water. They don't go into this because they think it could be very funny. They'll go into it if they can make some money. Many of these projects, I think, result in some exclusive, expensive Copenhagen homes, in which no one can afford to live, at least very few. So if it lands there, this is really bad somehow. But I hope and we can learn more about that when we draw this on the committee that this can also be a way to develop many of these properties that DSB has to lie down and that could need a little new life to put it in a nice way. As Mr. Rasmus Prehn mentioned things, things are bad at many of the stations in terms of toilet conditions, etc., and that is probably part of the whole, what should be said, deroute, which DSB has been on for some years, I think, in relation to inferior and inferior equipment, poorer and poorer service, closed stations, no toilets. Then you sit in DSB with great wonder and can't understand that the buses take any of your market. I can understand that. It is simply because you have slept per hour. If this can help create a little more light and life in some of DSB's properties, especially at some of the smaller stations, I think it is a very good proposal. We will keep an eye on whether that is where it lands or whether it just lands in some great prestige buildings. It may well be that DSB Properties will make a little money out of it, but if that is where it lands, then perhaps we think the proposal is not so good. But we are positive in the Danish People's Party and look forward to the continued work in the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152239	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152243	I think sir... Kim Christiansen can feel forever assured that this will be expensive Copenhagener residences. It can be said that, not least in Copenhagen, DSB has bought some very, very interesting grounds, including very urban sites which are either abandoned or abandoned in the years to come and that is absolutely certain. That is particularly certain, because, as I said in my questions to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, this must be done by partners, as Mr. Kim Christiansen points out, and it must be, if I may say so, on commercial terms, that is. at market price. Then it is clear that it is also in DSB's interest to maximise it as much as possible. So it is guaranteed to be expensive, exclusive Copenhagen homes that are being built on some of the grounds. And I think that's too bad. That is what I was trying to say in my questions to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, that is, that it might be interesting now that we are dealing with a public company, if we could not push for more sensible urban development with general housing, cheaper housing, as has also been discussed, instead of being these expensive, exclusive Copenhagen homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152352	I kind of agree with Mr. Simpson. Henning Hylllested. I also mentioned a little, if this becomes a billion-dollar portfolio, that we do not know where it ends and how many pension funds and others will invest in it. Right now, I'm sure a lot of people are interested in this. It could also be that you hit a housing ceiling at some point. I'd like you to have some percentage of this revenue, which was simply earmarked and which made sure that some of this is also going to get a little better stations. It would probably be wrong to call it a toilet pool you could call it a station pool but it could be something that went to create a little better environment at many of the smaller stations, so it all didn't end up in major architectural projects here in the Copenhagen area. So I fully agree with Enhedslisten in relation to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152449	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152450	The last one, sir. Kim Christiansen came along, I thought was a very interesting consideration. I really think that is an idea that we should try to continue working on, perhaps also in relation to this draft So I think that sounds really interesting. Otherwise, I would just like to comment on a comment that Mr. Kim Christiansen, in his rapporteur's speech, pointed out that DSB had, as it were, promised that it would be possible to drive without contract payment by 2030, in other words, on purely commercial terms. Yes, it was on condition that the driving was kept at the time when this statement was made. After all, DSB has since been offered and taken away some sections, and it is also on the way with regard to Øresund traffic etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152533	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152534	Yes, it is true that there have been some changes in the supply of some sections. Now I do not think it is Svendborgbanen who is going to significantly impair DSB's economy I hope not, because then it is fragile. I told you at one point that when DSB couldn't manage to run what they had, we might have to cut down the stretches a little, so DSB could do it better. This has been done on a number of sets, of course, as a result of the belief that better and cheaper public transport can be achieved on the routes in question. I think we can, too. We've got a fantastic supply in Central and West Jutland, and I believe that's going to increase the public traffic right in that area and then it also gives DSB a little competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152624	Thank you, sir. Kim Christiansen. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152631	Thank you for that, President. As Mr. Kim Christiansen mentioned, we see around the country a number of ghost stations where actually good, solid buildings, sometimes also fine architecture, stand empty. We also have a number of railway areas which have become superfluous and which are no longer needed for rail purposes. Of course, it makes sense for such land to be disposed of or developed. There's the Left's starting point that DSB is good at driving trains or should be. But at least they're not world champions in construction, housing and business buildings and things like that. It's not their core task. Therefore, we think it is very sensible to change the legislation in such a way that DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S can ally with private partners who have the expertise in building, housing and premises. I think something really good can come of that. You could say that an alternative model could be that we just sold DSB's property portfolio to private investors who could make a company that owned this. But I think this is a very sensible model that has been found, where I am sure there will be some development around the country, where there is precisely these empty premises and unused land, for the benefit of local development. I also think that we should give the political signal that, when you sell these remaining buildings and land, of course, you only sell what is not for rail purposes. Of course. You don't have to buy back at a later stage. However, it is also important to send a signal that there must be scope for activities and facilities, for example. investment in bicycle parking, which is something that is missing very many places, and also car parking. It's one of the challenges. It is that people cannot get rid of their car in connection with the railway station, and then they rather drive into the center of Copenhagen. So I think we should have that in mind and that we should send the political signal that we should have it in the back of our minds when developing these projects. But otherwise we are very pleased with this bill, and we do not share the Enhedslisten's concern at all, which paints such a picture that there are now some nasty private capitalists who want to foam cream and so on. I believe that what is needed is built around the country at market prices, and that is a very healthy principle. At any rate, the alternative is something similar to state communism, and we are not in favour of it in the Left. The Left can support the bill and, moreover, should welcome the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152919	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219152923	It's, of course, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen's remark that Enhedslisten is trying to paint a picture of some horrible capitalists who have made me speak. No, we don't. Those who come in are, of course, capitalists, the partners with whom DSB comes in and has to cooperate. We have a capitalist society, so it's perfectly legal. But we may just think that it is good that there is another element, for example. Talking about housing in Copenhagen it's obvious, and there's a lot of talk about it, and there's also a grint about the fact that more cheaper housing has to be built. If it becomes a market price, as I mentioned in the question to Mr. Kim Christiansen, it won't be cheaper housing. Then it's gonna be those well-stocked apartments, exclusive homes. Therefore, it could be fun if there was another element too, and it should be the public one. Now you have a company here, which has a large real estate portfolio which, in cooperation with the local municipality, in this case the City of Copenhagen, could develop housing projects so that you could get those cheap housing, so that Copenhagen also becomes a city not only for wealthy people, but also for ordinary people with quite ordinary income.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153031	But there is nothing to prevent that from happening, but in the case of non-profit housing, it is the individual municipal council which has the lead and also decides what the needs are in the individual areas and how much economy they have to establish that sort of thing. I don't think that has anything to do with this bill. It's fine that Enhedslisten focuses on that. I just don't think it has anything to do with this. Here we consider that we provide a freer framework for DSB's real estate company, so that they can enter into some partnerships, and some of those with which they could potentially ally themselves are, for example. the pension funds of all of us, who must make sure that our pension funds breed once in many, many years when we grow old.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153111	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153113	It is clear that the way in which it is fixed will, of course, maximize the price of the land. It will also be in the interests of DSB, which is why it will, of course, be more difficult. What I'm just saying is that it could be fun if the public would like to put in place, and that when those lands were to be bought, it didn't turn into those crazy prices, which the Copenhagen lands are sold for... and that's what we're talking about... and thus it's gonna be very, very difficult to get cheaper homes established, so Copenhagen will also be a city for ordinary people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153148-2	Well, I know that Enhedslisten is a great supporter of the planned economy, where the public, the state, goes in and sets the price level, etc., instead of having little confidence in market forces. If you want to make non-profit homes, as I said, you can do it by other channels around.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153206	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153222	Thank you. In fact, a bit like the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Prehn, said, we also think that at first glance this looks very trustworthy. It might be a good idea to allow DSB to make as much of its actually quite substantial property portfolio as it was possible at all. And it could be a welcome subsidy for the somewhat sluggish train operation. We know that passengers are currently leaving the train, and we also know that it is because DSB is politically facing fairly unequal competition from, not least, cheaper cars, discounts for driving over Storebælt and long-distance buses on which the frequency is not required. But that is not at all the point of the bill here when you look at it. The intention is to patch up what can be said to be theft made by the government and the Danish People's Party and the Radicals with the agreement they reached on 12 November 2017 on business and entrepreneurial initiatives, as it was called, where a good part of the funding was actually taken from DSB's contract payment. 207,3 million kr. in 2018, as stated in the comments, increasing to 380 million. kr. in 2021. If you then add a reduction in the contract payment from 2016 of 300 million. kr. and the profit we can see from DSB's side is now 120 million. kr. for 2018, on top of that, it has to be said that DSB is holding very hard for these times. But with the bill here, we think you go with one hand, reduce contract payments, and then you give a little with the other hand. I can see from the observations of the draft law that DSB expects an increase in return towards 2030 of 3-4 billion. kr., as stated in the comments. It's like a punch on the bag that it's probably gonna pay $3-4 billion like that. kr., rising from 2 billion. kr., but it is clear from the comments that this is the case. It can be said that the increased return is also directly stated in the comments that should then be used to reduce the contract payment. Oh, yes, you could have used the return to improve train operation, for example, the service, the one we have just discussed, the service at the stations, on the trains, and so on. etc. In this connection, I would like to say something very briefly about these waterproof bulkheads, which are highlighted in the comments, namely that there are waterproof bulkheads between DSB SOV and DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S. DSB SOV can't shoot money directly in property development, as it would probably be illegal state aid, but DSB can then shoot its building rights, its properties in DSB's property assessment. This will then be a compensation for the reduction of the contract payment, and the money will ultimately be included in the consolidated accounts, as I understand it; so there is a very close link between the 3-4 billion. kr. (i) a reduction in the rate of return envisaged and the corresponding reduction in the rate of payment of the contract. This is also one of the points that Danish Occupations points out in their hearing answer, and I would think that a skilled lawyer might find some connection here and then blame someone for the fact that some sort of bullying is actually going on with state aid. It is now not Enhedslisten's biggest complaint in relation to the bill, but it is, on the contrary, that this is a patchy, a compensation for the continued abuse of DSB, as we think it is, and as the agreement of 12 November 2017 expresses. The fact that DSB then chooses to translate the abuse into abuse of its employees is another matter, but it is nevertheless equally regrettable. On the basis of this bill, you might also ask: tell me, what exactly is DSB now? Is it a train company, or is it now also a real estate developer? You can be completely in doubt. You can also see that there must be a separate reporting of DSB's property development at the company meetings to be held in the future; so it is a legitimate doubt when you are gradually questioning whether it is a railway company we are dealing with. An ironic comment could also be made: not long ago we had a draft law on the development of the area at Ny Ellebjerg, which was under discussion, and it was then that the Metro Company was appointed to be a city developer. We are having many people on the field, including those companies that should really just concentrate on driving trains. And that is the summa summarum that we think DSB should concentrate on: doing what they are good at, driving trains and getting a sensible business out of it and getting a sensible relationship with their employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153736	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153748	Thank you. If you listen, everyone actually agrees that it is a bit a sad affair with many of DSB's buildings and lands, and so there is a reasonable interest in doing something about it. Henning Hyllested points to it. He then disagreed with the solutions, but it is an honest matter. At least nothing has happened for many years in these areas, regardless of the fact that the opportunity has actually been there. So it is obviously not something DSB itself can and will and must do today, and that is why this is a good legislative proposal that allows external funds to be brought in and external partners to help change the supply. For those areas are, in fact, mostly located in attractive areas, namely in urban areas where there is a good chance of establishing buildings that can be rented out or sold. So these are sort of interesting areas, which is why I am also convinced that this will call for interested investors who want to partner with DSB, in terms of making use of this, so that it can be a better experience with these areas, which look like abandoned areas and something that may not fit so well into that landscape. So we actually think it is really good craftsmanship that this proposal comes along and we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153918	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219153933	Thank you. Back to the democratic talk that I had with the Minister a little earlier. This is quite democratic in fact. Now, when we have to make some decisions in the Folketing, we have to take them on the highest possible enlightened basis, and of course there are consultations which we use to get a higher level of knowledge. That is why we also have matters relating to these conservations which are intended to give us an insight into what the experts, in other words those who know more than we do, say about the areas. So this proposal is about DSB SOV and DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S. It makes very good sense, and it makes sense that DSB Property Development A/S is actually allowed to extend their mandate here. But once again there is a democratic aspect: we must safeguard our public transport, we must safeguard the experience we have as citizens of this society and we must safeguard the welfare of society. That is why I very much agree with the objections raised by the rapporteur from the Socialist Group and, in fact, also with the good idea of the rapporteur from the DF. Could we earmark some of these funds to ensure that we secure some decent buildings? I think that is perhaps also a democratic duty in relation to DSB, public companies and the bill here. With those words, we tend not to support the bill unless we can point it in the direction of earmarking some of the funds and taking care to address some of the challenges that have been talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154117	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154123	DSB should be given more tools to strengthen the organisation. Commercial development of buildings can, of course, become such a tool, because today we can at least see that a great many buildings and land are falling. SF wants to strengthen DSB and develop the railway into an even more attractive mode of transport. We can put it that way that it should be directly delicious to take the train. Of course, it is primarily about being moved by train from one place to another, but if more people have to leave the car and take public transport, the whole experience must be in place from start to finish with the possibility to park the car and bike at DSB stations, by having the opportunity to buy coffee and something to eat, that you have hygienic toilets, and that it is actually also open to them. And with access to stable network connection, train time becomes a time you can use for something sensible. That's why we need to strengthen DSB and not rob the company. So now a majority wants to do a smaller train robbery by snatching some money from DSB, but on the other hand they also give something. But this system of giving and taking is not enough for SF's ambitions in relation to the railroad. We want a strong modern rail service, which is a genuine alternative to cars, and that requires funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154258	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's the Transport, Building and Housing Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154305	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to allow DSB to manage the development of DSB's properties through its subsidiary DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S. The reason for the bill is an agreement between the Government, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left of 12 November 2017 on business and entrepreneurial initiatives, where the parties agreed that part of the funding should be found by streamlining DSB and thereby reducing the contract payment to DSB of 207 million. kr. in 2018 increasing to 380 million. kr. in 2021. At the same time, it follows from the agreement that, by amending the DSB Act, DSB must be granted a freer framework to generate revenue from commercial property development in order to support the company's economy. DSB will continue to operate trains as its primary activity. Today DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S participates in the initial development of DSB's properties and sells them out when building plans have been achieved. The bill is now intended to allow DSB Property Development A/S, in a partnership with one or more private investors, to manage the development of DSB's properties by moving forward in the next phases of the project, which are intended to build buildings that are subsequently either rented or sold. DSB Property Development A/S will have to own 50%, and the private investor will have to own 50%. by the company. The ownership distribution could later be changed, but DSB Property Development A/S's shareholding could not exceed 50 per cent. In conclusion, I look forward to the further examination of the proposal and, of course, I am ready to answer any questions that the members of the committee might have on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154504	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154508	This was about the fact that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech and where Dansk Værg has given a hearing answer. There is, of course, a direct link with the comments in the draft law between the reduction in the contract payment that was adopted back in 2017, and the opportunity this bill now offers to allow DSB to develop its property portfolio. I can see in the consultation note what the ministry is replying to it, but I have to admit that I think the answer is a little bit: yes, you are saying that, but we are now saying the opposite. I think that the argument somewhere lags behind, because the legal notes clearly link the two things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154600	Well, it's part of the deal that you make with the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left, which streamlines DSB with a larger million dollars each year. The agreement also provides for the possibility for DSB to develop property. This means reducing the contract payment while giving DSB a freer framework for generating revenue through property development.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154628	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154630	It is not, then, what to say, cheat, as I called it in the rapporteur's speech. Maybe it was just hard enough. But is it not some form of indirect state aid or a clever circumvention of State aid rules that you are quite sure of? I am not convinced by the arguments in the consultation note.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154652-2	I do not see how this would be a circumvention of any state aid rules. Well, you can lower the contract payment from the state to DSB. It is also allowed to allow DSB to develop property in cooperation with private investors. After all, there are likely to be synergies between DSB, which knows the track areas and how they are and how they are to be used, and also operate during the period of construction, taking part in the property development itself together with the private sector. So it is a proposal that must generate some greater values for the benefit of the whole of society and also for the benefit of DSB.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154734	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154736	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. Back to the question of democracy and the DSB once the Danish State Railways. How does the Minister react to the feedback he has received in terms of earmarking or prioritising with these funds, in relation to the fact that it comes from lands that have been assigned to the Danish state courts back in the Lord's time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154803	I don't really think I understand the question. Because I do not see that the fact that DSB has at some point been given or bought those land should mean that DSB should not be allowed to develop and sell those land. There is some premise there in Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen's question that goes over my head.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154821	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154823	We certainly support the fact that they can sell and cultivate etc., no doubt about it. However, we are asking about the revenue and how it is used and whether some of the funds should be earmarked to improve public transport, for example. that it is earmarked to provide some cheaper general housing in the city, in view of the fact that it may just be much more expensive commercial rentals or to the richest in relation to private property.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154854	The revenue can be used for whatever you want to use it for. You decide that yourself in a democratic way. What has been decided here is that a revenue from an efficient DSB should be used for business and entrepreneurial initiatives in an agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left. So that is what has been decided that the proceeds from a more efficient DSB should be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154921	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154942	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219154958	Thank you for that, President. The title of Bill L 149 is, as I have said, and as you can see on the board up here behind: the importance of faith, cultural conditions and the like in relation to the imposition of the penalty. It should be relatively simple, especially when talking about the importance of faith and cultural conditions for the imposition of the penalty, that the answer is that there should be no significance. It should be relatively simple to say that that meaning is not there. But there has been still: we have seen a court ruling that it can be an extenuating fact that you beat your children because you come from another culture. And when we see it, of course we have to act. In Denmark, under no circumstances do we accept that parents beat their children. After all, we have abolished the right of rebuke in the Folketing quite a few years ago, and in this context, as I said, it does not matter what cultural background one comes from, because cultural conditions can never be an excuse for violence. That is why the Social Democratic Party also supports this bill in which we insist that belief and cultural relationships, or the like, must never be an attenuating factor in the punishment, either in the beliefs or cultural relationships of the perpetrator or, for that matter, in the victim's. It is just as important that when claims are made that the victim has behaved contrary to standards of good behaviour according to a particular culture, indeed, it should not be given weight as an attenuating circumstance. So hopefully this is the last time we've seen a court pass such a verdict. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155202	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155212	Thank you. I remember that some time ago there was a story in the media that, in some judgments, Sweden had seen a tendency to attach importance to it and to make it an intermediary fact that the crime that had been committed was somehow culturally or religiously conditional. In Denmark we thought ours and thought that it could only happen in Sweden. I'm glad this is Denmark. It must be something they're doing on the other side of the Øresund. It was until the Court of First Instance in Næstved dug up a judgment in which, in a case involving parents who had been violent towards their children, they had given the meaning of the judgment that conditions had to be regarded as culturally dependent. Then we also had the ballad in Denmark, because suddenly it wasn't only the Swedes who didn't have their things together, so we had also slept per hour. We then raised it with the Minister for Justice during Question Time, and the Minister then stated that what had happened at the Næstved Court of Justice was deeply problematic and he promised that he would look into changing the rules. That is why we are standing here today, because the Minister has put forward this draft law which puts an end to the problematic possibility that it could be used as a basis for a judgment if conditions are considered to be culturally related. Of course it shouldn't be like that. Faith, culture, etc. Of course, when we make an assessment of these matters in our courts, we have to be completely subordinate. That is why I am also extremely pleased that the Minister has made this proposal. It is, of course, a proposal that the Danish People's Party will support, because it should not be the case that our legal system looks at this kind of thing, looks at culture, looks at religion, but looks at what it is for a crime that has been committed and how practices and rules are in that area. You don't have to look at culture, religion and stuff like that. That's got to be irrelevant. That is why the Danish People's Party supports the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155434	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155438	I fully agree that this should not in any way be an extenuating circumstance, but as I see it after reading many of the hearings and the criticisms that have also been made of the draft law, I have seriously questioned here at first reading whether this bill will actually make a difference. Is it the rapporteur's view that judges will judge differently when we get a bill like this through? It seems to me that this is not necessarily an attenuating circumstance in the case of Næstved, but perhaps rather that it had just been noted that there could be cultural differences. And if, as I have at least been able to find out, we are not even able to prove that this is an attenuating circumstance, but just something we consider in the same way as it may be interesting that I am a member of a football club or something like that, then I think it could be a violent package to assess whether one should be a member of one or the other or have a culture. So, what must be taken into account as a judge? So very briefly: is this going to change something in the way that punishment is carried out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155544	Well, I don't think it should be taken into account whether Mr. René Gade is a member of a football club or a handball club. I have the clear impression that if Mr. René Gade does something that is criminal, and the Folketing decides to waive the immunity of the author of the question, the judges are, in fact, blind. That's the way it's supposed to be. In relation to the specific case, which is also mentioned in the comments on the draft law, it is also clear, I think, that this is something that has been emphasised in the judgment, not that it has necessarily been an extenuating circumstance. I managed to correct myself in the rapporteur's speech, because I was able to say that, but I also corrected myself, fortunately, but I do not think that the judges should put any emphasis on it. No.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155623	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155625	I can imagine that, in all the worst cases one can imagine, could come in and do something about family relationships, where it could be said that it was honour that was used to do something about family members, which we cannot see at all in the Danish context is right and reasonable. So I fully agree with the intention. But for me it has been very difficult to say yes to this proposal because I simply cannot see that it is of any use but that we are focusing on a political direction, and I really agree very much with the political direction; I just do not really see that it is really useful in legal terms, and I do not hear the rapporteur saying that it does, but that it is essential for the rapporteur that this is not taken into account in any way, whether it is the family or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155706	No, this is where we put our foot down. In my view, it is very clear that if you adopt the legislative proposal that lies here, you put your foot down and say: that is not how it should be in Denmark; there are clear restrictions. We do not want us to have this situation in our legal system, where we risk it becoming a slippery slope and that we will suddenly see more cases. So this is really for me to see as preventive; it is in order to avoid the situation which I understand the questioner like I am very opposed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155735	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod. No one else has asked for brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219155756	Thank you. As has already been mentioned, the draft law before us is based on a specific case before the Court of First Instance in Næstved, where it appears from the grounds for the decision that the court has emphasized that there was simple violence and individual cases of threats, compared with the fact that conditions were back in time, that conditions had to be considered culturally conditional, and that they ceased after the defendants had been instructed by the municipality on how child education was handled in Denmark. That is why we are debating today a draft law amending the criminal code, which states that cultural matters, beliefs and the like cannot be attenuated by the imposition of the penalty. See, in earlier times in Denmark it has been normal that violence and threats have been used as part of child rearing, and it wasn't because parents were necessarily evil at the time. It was a different time. It was called the court of reproof. It sounds a little nicer than saying violence against children, but that was really what it was all about. Then, fortunately, there has been a development in Denmark that has done so, that we are no longer doing so, and it has even been legalized that it is illegal, and that is really fine. So when people come to Denmark from another culture and come from a place where it is still normal to use violence and threats of violence as part of child rearing, one can explain that this is why they are doing what they are doing. But one cannot justify doing what they do, because there is only one law in Denmark, and it applies to all persons who are in the kingdom. It is not the case that there is some kind of parallel legal system, so that if you have a certain cultural background, you are punished more lightly than if you have a different cultural background. So that's what we're going to be told clearly and unequivocally with this law. It's that well, if you violate the law in Denmark, you get a penalty, and I wouldn't say that we don't care because, as I said, it can be used as an explanation, but say that it doesn't matter that you have a different cultural background than Danish. And it is an important signal to be sent that as part of child rearing, we do not use violence in Denmark. We just don't do that because children are harmed by it, there is clear and clear evidence of that. So we can only welcome the fact that it is therefore possible to change cultural standards, it is possible to change the way in which we as parents treat our children. Today, fortunately, it is completely unthinkable to use the methods of training that my classmates have been subjected to, where you have been beaten by your parents with belts and braces, and what do I know? It is fortunately historic and it is no longer something we do in Denmark. So in these words, I would recommend that we adopt the bill. It is quite a good signal to send both to parents in Denmark, but also to legal practitioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160122	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160126	What I want to ask is a little bit about what I also asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether there have been examples of action being taken on the information and the things that we really do not want to take into account in the future. Have there been examples that the court in Denmark today, so far, has acted on it and given an attenuating punishment? So there was an example from Sweden, which was also taken up by the former rapporteur. However, some of the consultation answers we receive say very clearly that what happened in Sweden is not at all comparable to what has happened here in Denmark. Does the rapporteur have examples that this is actually something that is necessary and something that is good to do, because we have seen examples of the need for such a bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160216	I'm not quite sure I understood the question. But I started by reading the premise of the judgment of the Næstved Court of First Instance, which dealt with a Vietnamese parent couple, and that is the concrete background to the fact that we have this bill here today. And then the rapporteur has to repeat his question, because it was somewhat unclear to me what was meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160241	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160243	But the question is simply whether that judgment in Næstved shows in any way that we need to make such a law. This is quite unclear to me, even in relation to what the rapporteur has said for reasons of explanatory statement. Well, there's nothing in that judgment that wouldn't make sense from the point of view of how I understand the normal legal perspective. There is nothing in that judgment that is very different from what we want in the future when we get this bill implemented, which is what it will be, as there is a majority in favour of it. So I just ask the rapporteur: is there anything in the Næstved ruling that will help our judges to do something better in future than they did in Næstved?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160327	Well, at least I can read the premises again if Mr. Knox doesn't mind. René Gade did not hear it in the first place: the Court has emphasized that there is simple violence and individual cases of threats, compared with the fact that the conditions are back in time, that conditions must be considered culturally conditional and that they have ceased after the defendants have been instructed by the municipality on how child rearing is handled in Denmark. ▪ You don't have to be visited by the municipality to realize that you can't beat your children and threaten them to get killed and get your ears cut off. So you have to know the law and know that this is not the way to do it in Denmark. So it doesn't require a visit from the municipality. And that it is culturally conditional is subordinate to it is not something that the court should emphasize. So, yes, that's what this law does. The Court will not be able to stress in future that violence against children may be culturally dependent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160425	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. Then we give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160436	Thank you. I shall not repeat what previous rapporteurs have said about what the draft law is about. I would just like to note or mention here that the draft law is based on a single judgment, that is to say a single judgment, which has been handed down in the court of the city and which, moreover, has been appealed against. I think that, and this is what we in the Enhedslisten think, is a basis that is a little thin or, at least, that this bill is trying to solve a problem that is non-existent. I see it somewhat as such a blow to the air, that is to say to try to solve a problem which is not really there and which does not really exist in the Danish courts. Then I have heard previous rapporteurs talk about Swedish courts, and then I think: they will have to find out for themselves on the other side of the water. In any case, I just think it's important that we think about the fact that this is about a single verdict that this bill has been made on the basis of. Having said that, we in the Enhedslist think it is really important to combat domestic violence, violence against children, violence against women, and we also think it is very positive that the government wants to comply with the Istanbul Convention on this point. And that's a little funny, because when we discuss rape legislation, the government is a little more reluctant to implement the Istanbul Convention into Danish law. Having said that, we think, as you can hear, that it is difficult for us to see what kind of problem this bill is going to solve. It seems a bit like a blow to the air. At the same time, we agree with the intention of the bill, that is to prevent domestic violence and combat violence against children and women. We look forward to the committee reading, where we will try to examine some of the consultation responses that are quite critical of this bill. There are some concerns that we are going in here and interfering with the judgement of the courts as to when something is attenuating circumstance, and we can share that concern a little in the Enhedslisten. That is certainly something we would like to look at. At any rate, the starting point here is that we will be voting yellow for the draft law, but as always we would like to use the committee procedure to get a little smarter. Then I should like to greet the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be here, and say that they also expect to vote yellow for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160725	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160728	So, Enhedslisten can say that this is a minor problem, since only one judge at one city court in Denmark has emphasized that violence was culturally conditional. It cannot be said that this is a non-existent problem. One sentence is a judgment too much. I assume that Enhedslisten agrees with me on that. So I just need to explain: Does Enhedslisten think it should be emphasised that parents beat their children as a result of some cultural background, or should it not be something that is attached to emphasis? Well, it's kind of a simple question. One can only answer whether the emphasis should be on the cultural background or whether it should have no meaning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160818	Well, I don't think there's any excuse for beating either your boyfriend or your children or your friends for that matter, not even a religious background or a cultural background. So it should not be given any weight, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160833	Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160835	Well, why don't Enhedslisten vote for the bill? I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160840	That is because we share some of the concerns which, among other things, we share. Children's Conditions highlight in their consultation response. We also share some of the concerns of Professor of Law Jørn Vestergaard, whom he has sent to the Legal Affairs Committee. We would like to take a closer look at this and we would like to use the committee procedure for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160854	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219160857	Thank you. I have to admit that I have been dropped completely after the answers which Mr. Mr Jørgensen received from the rapporteur. How can it be said, on the one hand, that this should not be emphasized here, but that we will not vote in favour of the draft law, which is intended precisely to ensure that it is not given any weight? So what Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying today is deeply paradoxical. So I would like an explanation for that. The second point that lies in this, which I think is actually a little central, is that the rapporteur's argument is that this is one matter. I can well remember when Enhedslisten with fire and fire was out, marking very strongly in relation to one sentence, which was about the rape of a sentence that was appealed, and which got a completely different result when it went on to the next instance. But then we all had to discuss this, which was also a very important issue. Whether there is one sentence or ten sentences, it is an important question. So I don't understand this: Well, Enhedslisten can take up a verdict... then the important one is... but the government can't take up a verdict, because then it's not important. What's the justice in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161005	But in the matter of rape, it is not just one sentence. I'm pretty sure that's the verdict, sir. Peter Kofod refers to is the judgment that fell in Herning and to which we have discussed much here. But there have been so many other convictions that have dealt with rapes. Having said that, there is only one judgment here which has even been appealed, and I do not think that there is a precedent in the Folketing for us to change the legislation on the basis of one judgment if that is an answer to Mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161038	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161040	Is this not a question of justice for the rapporteur? Whether there is one judgment, or whether there are ten judgments, the Folketing will have to deal with it if the Folketing finds out that the way the rules are put together is not appropriate. Moreover, this was not the case referred to by the rapporteur. This was, therefore, the case which was tried by the Court of Justice and where the persons concerned were convicted. But it was based on one judgment that you think was unfair to raise this whole debate about consent in this type of case. And I thought it was quite fair that Enhedslisten beat the drum for it. Because if there was one case and one verdict that Enhedslisten thought was problematic, then of course you should raise a flag for it. But let me return to the starting point. I do not understand why the rapporteur is quite right, and with which I fully agree, to reject the fact that these things are cultural backgrounds, religions and so on. I fully agreed with what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said. And then came the conclusion, which was that you would not vote for the bill. Well, that's deeply paradoxical. What is the deeper meaning of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161143	The deeper meaning lies in the fact that we are in agreement with the intentions of the draft law, but that we are afraid that we are going in and tampering with the division of power here, and that we are going in and in an inappropriate way interfering with what the judges should give weight and not give weight, which is highlighted in several of the hearings. So, yes, in that way I can understand that both Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and Mr. Peter Kofod thinks it's a little ambiguous. But what we've come up with in the Enhedslisten right now is that we're going to vote yellow for this bill. But, as always, we will use the law to become wiser. And then it may be that Mr. Peter Kofod can persuade my colleagues and me to think differently. But that is the answer I have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161219	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161223	I do not understand that Enhedslisten is more fond of culture and religion than the individual and the individual's rights over and over again. Every time we discuss these things, it's religion and culture that comes first. Yes, it is one judgment, but what is particularly important in that judgment is that it is explicitly stated that cultural considerations have been taken into account. That's what's different about that verdict. That is what is fundamental, that is what is historic and it can set a precedent. My question is: how many sentences will it take before Enhedslisten thinks it is enough and that something should be done about it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161259	I find that difficult to give an exact figure on. But I can reassure Mr. Naser Khader says it is very rare that we in the Enhedslisten agree with religion. As you know, we are socialists, and that is why we are in favour of the separation of church and state. So there you go, sir. Naser Khader, take it easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161314	Sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161316	We experience this debate after debate: when it comes to culture and religion, the Enhedslisten holds with culture and religion and not the individuals. This is about kids who got beat up at home. I do not understand that you have no higher priority than religion and culture, and that is what is historic. Can the rapporteur point to other judgments where cultural matters are explicitly mentioned?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161343	I do not know of any other judgments where the cultural issue is explicitly mentioned, and I would say that we in the Enhedslist are very concerned about violence against children. We would like that to be stopped, and we are very pleased that the right wing in particular has changed its position on this issue. 'Cause if we're finally gonna have a history lesson, I'd say that it took a pretty long time to convince sir. Naser Khader's party, sir. Peter Kofod's party and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's party said it was illegal to beat his children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161410	With that, we thank Mrs. Rosa Lund, and then it's Mr. Lund. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161423	Thank you for the floor. Charles James Napier was a British general who was in command of the British forces in India in the mid-18th century. At one point, while serving out in India, he wanted to enforce the ban that had been imposed against burning widows. The local natives, who were about to burn off a widow, said: Well, it is our tradition to burn off widows. To that, Charles Napier replied that it is our tradition to execute murderers. That is what this debate is all about: it is a rule of law and some traditions that face each other. You cannot transfer it entirely, but I am sure that everyone can see which substance the conflict is basically made of. When a rule of law states that this or that is not permissible, one cannot come and use one's culture or religion as an excuse. That was what Charles James Napier had said back in a harsh but memorable way 180 years ago. Criminal acts must be punished equally, regardless of the cultural or religious background of the perpetrator, and an urban court should not be able to claim that culture or faith should be given priority when it comes to crimes. It would also be strange to do so. Many good things have been said in the debate so far. One thing I have not heard of is Paragraph 70 of the Constitution. After all, it states that religion cannot be used as an excuse to be exempt from its rights or duties. The issue of rights is often mentioned, but it cannot therefore be used to exempt one from one's duties, including, of course, the obligation to comply with applicable law. It is precisely to avoid precedents and to establish the situation that we are bringing forward this draft law, L 149. This is a very good and sensible bill, which the Liberal Alliance naturally supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161638	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. Then it's mr. René Gade, there's the next one on the podium. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219161646	Thank you. I'm gonna break a little bit with a rule I have. I don't usually bring speaking paper up here or something like that, because I think I listen better if I don't have what I have to say, completely written down. But today I can listen to some of the questions I have put to some of my fellow rapporteurs that I must be very, very precise in order to get through my arguments today. I'll take note of that, and then I'll read it up instead. Because this isn't a matter of attitudes. For us in the Alternative, it is not a question of whether we are in favour or against taking care of someone's religion or special cultural circumstances when we ask some critical questions about this. For we fully agree with what the government writes in the introduction to the comments in the bill: the government will not accept that in criminal proceedings it is an excuse that the perpetrator's behaviour can be attributed to his faith, cultural background or the like. This applies both to the measurement of a penalty for e.g. violation of criminal law rules on violence as in the choice between conditional or unconditional prison. So this is not a question of attitudes. It is simply a question of me taking it very, very seriously, as a non-lawyer and as a non-expert, when we get consultation answers that strongly suggest that here there is legislation that is perhaps populist in the worst case, without really doing anything other than focusing on an area we would like to highlight, namely that there are certain cultures here in Denmark that we are to be tortured to ensure that we are politically marked to keep our ears in. In very many cases, I fully agree that they should be kept in their ears, with which there may be problems, but it is just not necessarily an entire culture that needs to be kept in their ears. That is why, in my speech from here, I would like to tell you what is behind the fact that, in the alternative, we are very sceptical about voting in favour of this. I really wanted to say yes when I first saw it because, as I said, I agree with the intention. Then I went over to be a little for and against, and now I think we will end up voting against. There is a democratic problem in this, I think, if we understand it correctly. But, of course, in committee I will check whether this bill will change anything if we vote through it so that it will be easier for the judges to live up to the ambition of the government. Because if it does, we will, of course, vote in favour. I just haven't seen any examples of it yet, but I'll check that out. In the speaking time that I have left, I will read out what Jørn Vestergaard, professor of criminal law, wrote in an address to the Legal Affairs Committee here yesterday. We get a lot of them, but I think this is pretty good. The implementation of the above bill will involve both unusual and totally unnecessary renewal in Danish criminal law. The background to the bill is a judgment of the Court of Næstved on 10 October 2017. As described in the comments to the bill, a Vietnamese parents were found guilty of violence against their children. The sentence was set in prison for 3 months and in prison for 60 days respectively. In both cases, the penalty was suspended. In this connection, the Court emphasized that there was simple violence and individual threats, that conditions remained in time, that conditions had to be considered culturally conditional, and that the violence ceased after the defendants had been instructed by the municipality on how child rearing was handled in Denmark. Well, that sounds pretty reasonable. Then there is the matter of whether it has been an attenuating circumstance that there has been another culture in play: it is noted that the violence consisted of lighter blows with flat hands and chopsticks, and that the mother was also convicted of threatening her boys to cut off their ears and the like if they did not behave properly. Again, there are no differences of opinion. We very much agree that this is not going to happen in Denmark, of course. What's interesting is whether the judges can actually use this new bill for something or whether it's pure populism. Here Jørn Vestergaard, professor of criminal law, writes: "The judgment is actually very reasonable and well founded. It is true that the exercise of the unlawful reproof was culturally conditional, but that does not mean that the right attaches this importance to an apologetic or attenuating circumstance or to the grounds for making the penalties conditional. The comment, on the other hand, helps to explain the background and the course, where it is crucial that conditions cease after the parents have been reproved by the municipality. If I get smarter along the way, we will, of course, vote in favour and say yes to this proposal, because we fully agree with the intention, but a professor of criminal law says this with several organisations in support, among others. The Crime Prevention Council, which also wonders, Children's Terms, the Association of Foreigners' Attorneys, SOS Racism, the SSP Association and the Attorney General. They don't say the same thing as the professor, but at least they're wondering. I must also, as a non-professional and non-expert, take this in a lot and say that I cannot find the good arguments in this individual case. At least I have not found them yet, so I am very sensitive to the advice of the House or from those who follow it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162134	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162136	I therefore agree that the terms of the judgment can be read in different ways. What I just do not quite understand is that when you agree with the content of the legislative proposal, why not just vote in favour? So you can have the view that Jørn Vestergaard has, namely that the law is superfluous, but you cannot have the view that the law does harm. Moreover, there is nothing new about the fact that we in the Danish Parliament are determining in the legislation what should be an aggravating circumstance and what should be attenuating circumstance. For example, it is clear directly from the criminal code that if a crime has been committed jointly, it must have aggravating significance. So there's nothing new about that. There is nothing in the draft law that the alternative disagrees with, and then it is somewhat difficult to understand why one then thinks that one should vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162231	Well, it's a balancing act, because most of the time you want to think that you've understood this into your leg, and then you just say yes when you agree with the intention. But imagine if it is not us politicians who are right in this matter to judge whether a judge should ignore this, that is, the element that there is something culturally dependent. What if it isn't really the politicians of the Folketing who are the best at it? It may be that there are some who are trained lawyers who are actually very good at it. But it is certainly not my job to assess whether something that actually doesn't help anything. That's how I read all the consultation answers... so I have to be made as a bill, because from here we want to send a political signal. It is not for me, as a politician, to say yes to the alternative without the professional and objective support of the experts. It seems to me, when I read the answers to the hearings, that there is therefore a political intention here, a bill that wants something good and with which we fully agree, but which I will say no at any time to vote yes to if it is primarily to show a political agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162336	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162338	I think that there are some very formalistic objections on the part of the alternative. In other words, does the alternative think that you should be punished more lightly if you have done something, because you are doing what you are from where you come from, for example, committed violence against your children? Or doesn't the alternative think so? And then I can see that mr. René Gade shakes his head. You don't think so. But then it's just voting in favour of this bill. Well, then it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162403	I have tried to clarify why it is that we have not yet taken a position, but are inclined to vote no. If we get good explanations, other than that it hurts nothing to say yes to this bill, then we will clearly consider saying yes. But I simply do not see that we have to implement legislation that is of no use, but where there may be a risk of • at a time when there are quite a lot of times in the political debate • to stigmatise minorities. So it should be useful to include something that might stigmatise minorities. However, I fully agree with the questioner. We agree with the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162442	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162445	I have two questions. Does the rapporteur think that a bill like this is stigmatizing minorities? I don't think so. I believe that the draft law here emphasizes that the rules are the same for everyone. There are exactly the same rules, regardless of who you are and what you believe in, and what the background you have is the rules that apply. So, first of all, does the rapporteur think that this is stigmatizing against minorities? The other thing: what harm would it do to vote through this bill or to vote on it? Because I am completely set off in relation to this discussion, which, on the one hand, says that what is in the legislative proposal is right and that it looks reasonable, but on the other hand is against. Normally I feel that whether it's the alternative or it's the government that puts forward something that we in the Danish People's Party think can make sense. If we think it's good, then we press the green button. If we think it's bad, we're gonna press the red one. It is, in fact, a very simple philosophy. So I just don't understand the alternative. But perhaps we can get an answer to the two questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162550	I can start with the first, that is, with regard to stigmatisation. It is not necessarily something that stigmats someone if you implement such a bill. But it's no use in my eyes when I'm at the moment. leaning on the experts to implement such a bill, although I agree with the message. It could be a commercial we were talking about here. Well, the ad tells something good about some product. We agree that this is a good product. The intent of using this product is fine. However, that does not mean that we should then make a law on it if it already works. So in relation to whether it stigmatises, I would say: yes, if it has no other function legally. In fact, many experts believe that this does not matter; it is an unnecessary confusion between the power bodies and that it really does not help anything; it does not help anything. And then I'm looking for why it's that we're gonna make such a bill. And then it can land in that there are some terms about honour, there is something about cultural differences, one compares with a case in Sweden that is very difficult to compare legally with here because it is quite different cases. Then, in my view, this kind of populist propaganda begins. So, yes, finally, this could be stigmatized for minorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162704	Sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162706	I simply disagree completely. I have to admit that. What the rapporteur is saying is quite wrong, I think. Now we leave it alone, because we will certainly not agree on that. Then let's take something else. The rapporteur says that this is a mix of powers. The rapporteur also said that this was democratically problematic, I think. I would really like to know what is so problematic. Well, if you read through the hearing answers, you can see the hearing answer that has come from the Association of Judges. I do not think there is any such clear direction in the response, but it is very clear that this is therefore an estimate that legislators have to make. It is for the Folketing to decide what it is that judges should attach importance; what it is that there should be attenuating circumstance and what it is that there should be an aggravating circumstance. It's something here. So what's so problematic about the shape of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162802	It seems to me that we have not seen an example of the fact that it has been an attenuating circumstance or an aggravating circumstance, that is to say what is being asked of the judges to disregard. So far, with this individual example, it has not been the case. It's been something you've seen. It has been said that it could have an impact, but it seems to have had no impact on the conviction, as I read it. Again: If there are examples of this being the case here in Denmark, I think that is fine. It may also be that this bill is just due diligence, but I would say that as long as there is no desire for it from the expertise, it may in this case look more like staffing than anything that really solves a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162845	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162847	If a man of 25 or 30 years of age wants to marry a 14-year-old girl because it is customary where the two persons come from, is it stigmatizing to establish here that Danish law overrides the custom and use of that country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219162911	This is, unfortunately, an example of how this can be done in the political debate at home. I started by reading out an answer and saying that I am so sensitive to good arguments. My fellow rapporteurs spend their time giving examples that make it sound like we are very concerned about protecting cultural ideas that do not belong in Denmark at all. So I'm gonna have to say something very clear to Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl, that we must, of course, reject things that are not legal in Denmark. We should not accept things that we do not think are right and reasonable, such as the constellation between a very young woman and an older man mentioned here. I point out calmly that it has been very difficult to find out what this law is going to bring about improvements. I still haven't heard anyone in the Chamber telling me, but I'm told it doesn't hurt anything, so why don't I vote for it? It may be that I find out in the committee work that there is a good reason for this. But it is a pity if it is a question of trying to understand what I must be right to know and explain, namely that the alternative backs up the intention and intention of the draft law, but so far we cannot see that it is useful to adopt the bill. But it may be that there are some who make some good arguments in committee and then we will clearly vote green. But that's not what I can see right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163031	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163033	Will the rapporteur's very clear answer have an impact on the way in which the alternative relates to the current criticism of the administration of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163050	Now I do not know if I can ask for the question again. I would say that, at least in my rapporteur's areas, which are currently primarily IT and justice, I will always be pragmatic if there is new information which means that something that I and we in the Alternative have thought in the past is suddenly illuminated to be different from what we knew before and that we will therefore be able to say that we have become wiser, I will say yes at any time and clearly that we were wrong. It's the same here. If we find out that there are good arguments, we will say yes and vote in favour. I have not heard them, even in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163129	It stops here. Thank you, sir. René Gade. And then it's sir. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163140	In a society governed by the law, it is, of course, a banality that a judgment should not take account of faith, cultural conditions or the like. Law is law, and there are no attenuating circumstances with reference to religion or anything else culturally. I actually think of it in the broadest sense, and it doesn't have to be culture like that from outside the sky. After all, everything would slip for the rule of law if you had to have a reduction in the penalty for drunk driving because you might have grown up in an alcoholic home, or lower penalties for fistfights on a Saturday night, because your father was violent, or if you come from one of the areas of the country I myself grew up in a country where not all elements of VAT and tax legislation have been fully implemented, would be an attenuating circumstance if you had to find some shortcuts of your own. Of course, this is not true of religion either. Then there's this verdict from Næstved that we've been discussing. Otherwise, we are beginning to have some doubts as to how much it has really had a bearing on the measurement of the penalty, and perhaps we are actually making too much of it by making a legislative proposal based on it. But I still think it's better to prevent than to cure later. Therefore, the SF can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163257	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. So we actually made it to sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163306	In the Conservative People's Party, we believe it is important that all citizens in Denmark respect the laws of the country and our common, fundamental democratic values. It is therefore worrying that these values are not shared in the penalty calculation. It's cultural relativism when it's the worst. Everything is not as good, something better than anything else, democratic values of freedom come first, and also democratic education, which does not include physical rebuke. We have long agreed that we will not accept this, and for more than 20 years we have had a complete ban on physical correction and domestic violence. The common understanding has been that as a society we have a duty to protect against this type of abuse. Assaults that leave not only physical marks but also scars on the soul. I cannot therefore understand why we obviously have a system that takes into account the fact that in other countries there is domestic violence when the punishment is measured. The fact that it is explicitly mentioned in the judgment is what is historic, that is what is new. It can set a precedent, and that is why legislation is needed to say that culture and religion must be secondary to the individual's right to determine his own life, body, sexuality, education, marriage and future. We must safeguard the principle that everyone is equal before the law. If you have beaten your spouse or your children, I believe there is no excuse, let alone a cultural or religious apology. The right of reproof has long been abolished, and we must not allow exceptions. It is therefore only positive that today we have this debate and will soon have the final end of the history of domestic violence. It is a relic of the past that must be laid in the grave, and it will not be missed. That is why the Conservative People's Party can support the bill. We owe it to the victims, in this case the children, to take this seriously and punish the perpetrators regardless of their religious and cultural beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163549	There is one brief comment. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163552	It has now been just over a year since the judgment in October 2017 was handed down. We may then disagree on what is really in that judgment, but we all agree that some words have been explicitly mentioned, which we are then debating here today, namely whether a judge may take account of, must emphasize or whatever the judge may do. I just want to ask the rapporteur: has there been any reason to raise similar criticism since October 2017? Do we have any other examples of words being used since then that could lead to a legislative proposal like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163628	That's the point. That is the only judgment I know of where culture is explicitly mentioned, and that is why we are reacting to it, because we will not have that happening in the future. In any case, it should not be a precedent, nor should it be possible to refer in future judgments to this judgment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163647	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163652	I think it will be a little dangerous democratically, as I said before, for the whole experience of how our system works, when, in connection with a case back in 2017, as there may also be disagreement among the sensible experts on how to interpret and where there is uncertainty about whether anything has been based on the words about culture that have been used here and discussing a change of law in order to get rid of something that has not happened since. So I would like to ask the rapporteur something in conclusion: if we do not implement this law, is the rapporteur so nervous that our judges will actually make this attenuating circumstance in the future? Is that something the rapporteur is concerned about today in practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163739	The reason why we are doing this is that in future there will be no precedent where a judgment will be referred to where this is explicitly mentioned. It is also to prevent it from happening again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163750	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line and I give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219163800	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of this bill. Well, I think this is creepy simple. You can make it very complex and make some very big discussions out of it, but for me it's just creepy simple. It's due diligence. It is a question of making sure that an end is put to the fact that this is not something that can risk finding a foothold in Danish law: that one can refer to cultural importance, that ties can be attributed to any significance in the determination of the penalty. Are we politicians supposed to interfere with this? Yes, it is. We need to have attitudes about what kind of society we want. We must have opinions as to whether culture and belief can be allowed to be an excuse for crime in Danish law and leave it to be an attenuating circumstance. It can never be in my world, and it is we who have to decide on it. It is not experts or committees, and it is not something that we should be discussing in dusty rooms. We, as politicians, as legislators, must take that discussion. That is what is called democracy and popular rule. We have seen an example of the importance attached to cultural matters in the determination of the penalty in specific criminal proceedings concerning violence against children. Yes, it is one matter and, right after that, the whole political debate started, and that, of course, has given particular attention to it. We're gonna stop that now. We make sure that argument can never be used in Danish law. Cultural relationships can never justify violence against children. We have abolished the right of reproof more than 20 years ago, and that applies regardless of the cultural background. The draft law makes it clear that belief or cultural background cannot be taken as an attenuating circumstance in determining the penalty. This applies both to the determination of the actual penalty and to the choice of form of sanction. The proposal also ensures that Denmark fully complies in practice with the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. That convention states that the Member States must ensure that, for example, they do so. in cases of violence is not accepted that actions are justified by reference to culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called honour. With those comments, I should like to thank you for your speeches and I look forward to answering questions here and in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164043	There is one question from Mr. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164046	I have one question, and that is, of course, the continuation of the debate in the House. The hearing I referred to earlier from Jørn Vestergaard, professor of criminal law, I read out parts of the platform to be concise. Now I would like to take some of the conclusion, three or four lines, and read out: As stated in the comments to the bill, the Attorney General has stated that the specific sentence in the above case is fully in line with the case law on violence against children committed by their parents. There is therefore no basis for the view that the courts should not be able to attach the importance and importance to cultural matters which may be relevant in the specific cases. Well, there's no case. There is no example of anything that we are about to do away with. This is the only example I have been given, and it is not an example. There have been no extenuating circumstances. Cultural matters have been mentioned, and that would be something that we were discussing, I think, defending, accusing and accusing between us and using the words that were now appropriate to understand the situation that had existed. But that does not mean that we attach the weight of the judge to the fact that it should be attenuating. Is it the Minister's view that this has been an extenuating circumstance in this case to which reference is made?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164210	What I understand from my official work and the Attorney General is that the sentence is in line with practice in this area. That is why it was not appealed. But when it came to fixing it, one thing was added. emphasis on the cultural nature of the violence. I think there are a great many, including in the legal environment, who had never seen it coming. And that's what you can say, yes, but the penalty was right, so it was within the range you could expect it to lie. But if we first accept as legislators that in a judgment cultural background or belief can be attributed as a reason, then in my world it is a slippery path. I believe that as politicians we must have some opinions as to whether we will accept that it is in a judgment or we will not accept it. For me, this is about something very, very fundamental.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164312	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164314	The latter will be most of a comment: it is equally in principle for us in the Alternative that we support the intention of the Minister and the intention of the bill. But it is becoming increasingly clear that there is no precedent that makes us nervous that the judges cannot deliver the professionalism that is actually intended in this draft law. I just think it is a pity that we have so much to do in the political debate, even in the media, before we come here in the Chamber, where there is a comparison with cases from Sweden. I think it was only on the wrong basis that we start to think that this is actually a matter in which it has been an extenuating circumstance. I think that will be the opinion of many of those who have been listeners today, and that has just not been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164400	But that, sir. René Gade and the alternative must remember, when you are against this bill, that you then also accept that judges in Danish courts can attach culture and faith to their judgment. I guess that's the principle here. Then it may well be that it is said that the overall assessment made the penalty to be applied correct. But if we, as legislators, look with open eyes at such a judgment and accept that it can become the legal state in Denmark, then we must have a political attitude, I think, whether we think it is right or not. I do not think it is right for this to be used as an argument at all, and that is why we have tabled this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164451	With that, we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164504	We'll open the negotiations with Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219164526	Thank you. What have we learned from the financial crisis? I think it is very different from party to party. And when I read the opening remarks on this bill, I think there are some steps in this proposal that are going in the right direction, namely that with the implementation of this EU directive, the government will encourage a more long-term and active partnership of companies. Indeed, it says, and I quote: the financial crisis has shown that in many cases shareholders have supported the excessive short-term risk taking by management. Furthermore, the active ownership of institutional investors and asset managers is often insufficient and focuses too much on short-term gains, which can lead to not optimal corporate governance and not optimal outcomes. As a Social Democrat, I fully agree with that. However, when I say that the lessons from the financial crisis differ from party to party, it is also emphasised that, unfortunately, the proposal does not mention that one of the causes of the financial crisis was crazy remuneration models and pay structures. This is where politics really lies. This is where we can prevent the destabilisation of the financial markets, and this is where we can really make a difference in order to prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis. But apparently the government doesn't dare, and I'll come back to that. The overall content of this bill is, of course, that listed companies are given better opportunity to identify their shareholders and I think that is a good move, and there is support for this so that shareholders can exercise active ownership. That is perfectly understandable and good. Then there is also a proposal that significant transactions between the listed company and its related parties must be approved by the company's board of directors before the transactions are carried out and some of them must also be published on the company's website. That is also right, very sensible; it is something we can support. Then it must be the case that institutional investors and asset managers must publish an active ownership policy or explain why they will not publish such a policy. It's the following and explaining principle. Then, of course, we will have to deal with the issue of wages, namely that listed companies must draw up and publish a policy for the remuneration of directors and directors, which sets the framework for fixed and variable remuneration. In addition, the company must draw up and publish a remuneration report at individual level for the actual remuneration of directors and directors. We think that is quite reasonable in general terms. And we believe that this directive is clearly a step in the right direction, and we can of course support that. But we also find it striking that, in this area too, where there is a need to tighten up the rules, the government continues to use its bow-to-back mantra once again to avoid over-implementing. In this way, there are several places in this directive where the possibilities are not fully exploited. I will, of course, drill it out and follow it up in committee work. Now I want to focus more on what I really think it is important that we get better solutions to: this is about variable pay. During the financial crisis, for example, we saw loan growth rising explosively in banks with bonuses and option programmes, making the whole economy more vulnerable to economic setbacks. The context is very, very well described in the Rangvid report. In other words, it has high social costs when companies use aggressive bonus programmes. It threatens not only the individual company but also the stability of society if wages contribute to taking excessive risks. It is therefore, of course, a good thing that this proposal wants listed companies to draw up and publish a policy for the remuneration of directors and directors when it comes to these variable salaries. It is also good that it should be published. But where are the policy measures that can really prevent us from once again getting pay packages with variable wages and bonuses that can help destabilise the Danish economy? I simply think that the government is conspicuous by the total absence of action. In the Social Democratic Party, we are going to come up with some kind of headline where we are going to try to solve this. We say in concrete terms that a maximum of 20%. We must also say that it would be a good idea to develop a CSR code of pay which we, together with the State and the business community, can try to formulate so that companies can register. Then we also think that there has been an explosion in the extremely high wages in Danish business. And that is something that can be held accountable for every year at its general meeting of shareholders, that is to say, that you would rather spend the money on wages than pay something out to shareholders. But we also think it should be the case that a maximum of 10 million can be deducted. kr. wages and salaries in the accounts. In addition, they must be taxed. These are some of the proposals that we will at least put forward when we hope to have the support of the electorate. And I can finish by saying here that the Social Democratic Party can support this bill... it's a step in the right direction... but there's still a need to make some moves in this area. And then I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, who is out to greet the electorate, and say that, unfortunately, he could not be here today, but that the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165058	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165106	Thank you. After all, the legislative proposal that the government has chosen to put forward here follows on from the initiatives that are in relation to the EU directive that was adopted back in May 2017. Now it is possible to implement it in Danish law, which deals specifically with these rules and conditions in relation to the listed companies. In the Danish People's Party we are pleased that we have outlined some better indications of precisely the efforts that investors can better read themselves out to and feel also who are the formal owners, but also, and not least, who are the real owners of different listed companies. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur referred to the technical parts of the overall legislative proposal. The Danish People's Party thus agrees with the premise that we must, of course, take these initiatives, so that these listed companies must draw up and publish a policy on the remuneration of their directors and their directors, setting a framework for both the fixed and the variable part of remuneration. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this will have a significant and good effect on the salaries mentioned here. But, of course, we also agree with some of the criticisms made by the Socialist rapporteur, precisely in view of the fact that we have seen some very serious examples of the bad side, which paints a bad picture of how some companies might think more of their own gain rather than others. In the Danish People's Party we are particularly interested in also making an agreement with the Social Democratic Party, where we go in and look at the companies that the state owns parts or all of. For example, we have seen a well-vended social democrat who has received quite a good bag of money from the capital in relation to development and so on. It was just an example of that. We have Nets, which I think is a scandalous example of how things can work out when a company that is half owned by the Danes otherwise makes some option programs that are crazy, for over 100 so-called executives who could buy shares for, for example, DKK 300,000, and then they could write off a prize of 35 million. kr., and others in the company have received even larger amounts. So we welcome the fact that we are also having a fundamental debate on other parts, and that is also what the Social Democratic Party proposed. We look forward to this also, if necessary, after a forthcoming parliamentary elections. However, the bill we have here contains, as I have said, some special markings in relation to the listed companies, and we in the Danish People's Party can also endorse that. We think that it is sensible to change the rules, and this also means that, in relation to the main objective, companies are encouraged to make more long-term investments. It is also hoped that with these legislative changes you can make ownership more active and also make it more long-term ownership than it has on average been in the past, where others may have wanted to go in and out with investment too often. So we support the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165458	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165507	Thank you. As the two previous rapporteurs have said, we have had some dramatic consequences on top of a financial crisis that has left its mark, and this has of course also meant that we in the Danish Parliament have adopted. I soon do not know how many changes and tightening of rules to strengthen Danish society, so that a new financial crisis cannot arise, so that we learn from the mistakes of the past and make sure that we have an economy that is more resilient, there would have to be a shock to the economy. A great many initiatives have been taken, and we are now taking another one, among others. because a large proportion of the shareholders have supported the excessive and short-term risk taking by the managements, as stated in the draft law. The taking of such great risks must be said, among other things. was one of the reasons that contributed to poor results. The legislative proposal here is the implementation of an EU decision on what has a mouthed name, namely the shareholder rights directive. And as the Social Democrat rapporteur rightly said, we are implementing it at least in Danish law. We in the Left think this is a good principle. So that is what we are doing here. As I said, a shareholder rights directive may not sound very charming, but the purpose is quite reasonable. It is a question of strengthening shareholders' willingness to long-term ownership in listed companies and making share trading more transparent. Implementation of the directive will include: allow shareholders to cooperate with investors, participate in general meetings and strengthen dialogue in general between shareholders and the company. As I said, this is a legislative proposal which translates an EU directive that applies to all EU countries. I should like briefly to mention the four key points of the draft law: listed companies will be strengthened in their ability to identify their shareholders. Active ownership will thus be promoted because communication between the company and the shareholders will be easier. Quoted companies shall draw up and publish a remuneration policy for directors and directors and a remuneration report shall be drawn up and published at the same time before the actual remuneration is paid. Therefore, if there are significant transactions between the listed company and a related party, it must be approved by the board of directors before it is implemented and the information must also be published. Institutional investors and asset managers shall publish an active ownership policy or explain why they will not publish such a policy. It basically aims to ensure more transparency and strengthen shareholders' ownership of the shares in which they invest. For the Left, it is important that corporate governance takes place in a responsible way and that sensible and optimal results are achieved, both for the benefit of the company, but also for the benefit of Denmark as a country and the shareholders who have provided capital. Basically, as I said, we strengthen the rights of shareholders by implementing this legislative proposal which implements the EU directive. In other words, it helps to ensure that companies operate more responsibly. This is a very sensible proposal, which we of course support from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165845	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Next in line, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219165852	Thank you very much. As I said, the proposal here is the implementation of the second shareholder directive, and it contains, as we see it, a number of positive elements which we in the Enhedslisten support, and we can therefore also support the overall legislative proposal. Firstly, what we call institutional investors is imposed, for example. pension funds, a requirement to publish policy on what is called active ownership, i.e. how they invest, how they manage their ownership in different companies. This is positive, because it is something that citizens and investors generally have an interest in knowing and that can promote greater sustainability and greater social responsibility. So that's good. But as among others... The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats points out that it is perhaps necessary to clarify more clearly what needs to be done in this policy, that is to say, what exactly is to be stated by companies, and perhaps also with reference to specific international framework agreements that exist in this area. There I see in the hearing answer that one also opens up that it is one of the things that needs to be stated in the observations made by the law, and perhaps that can be followed up during the committee procedure. It is also very positive that we are proposing greater transparency in the remuneration of management boards and boards in these companies, because we have a challenge that has been raised by several people, both with these very colourful bonus schemes, but also in general in the way in which executive salaries are developing. Economic Weekly letter shows once a year the relationship between Danish top managers and their employees' wage development, and there we can see from the latest inventory that five of the largest Danish companies' managers now have an annual salary that is a hundred times higher than the average salary of their employees. For the director of the ISS, we have a ratio of 177, that is 177 times higher pay. So the people concerned could go home after a few days at work at the beginning of the year, and then they would have earned the same as those who stand on the floor and create the values of the companies. So it is a good thing that there is a greater focus on it and that shareholders and citizens at least gain a greater insight into it, but it is a little too bad that we are not prepared to go further on the part of the government, and this is a minimum implementation here. We are very much in agreement with what was raised by, for example, Mr President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats the legislation that is in Britain, where companies with over 250 employees actually have to figure out exactly this CEO worker ratio annually, i.e. the relationship between the chief wages and the salaries of the people on the floor who create the values of the company. It would be positive if we could have similar legislation in Denmark, and it might lead to greater accountability, that we should be accountable to both the employees and to the citizens in relation to the pay gap that is developing between ordinary people and those in executives. We also agree with the criticism of the minimum rate raised by the Danish Shareholder Association in relation to the issue of influence on transactions with related parties. It is a little complicated, but such transactions can be of enormous importance, both in terms of value and in terms of the development of a company. In the consultation note, the Minister states that the choice of minimum implementation has been made on the basis of the government's principles. However, it is perhaps a rather unsatisfactory response to the legitimate concern of the shareholders' association that a majority shareholder may move out large assets, as long as it is adopted by the board itself, which they have actually appointed, i.e. the related parties, to the detriment of minority shareholders and to the detriment of the public, who do not have the transparency of the transaction that should be a matter of course. So there we will probably ask the Minister to draft an amendment which goes a little further than the minimum implementation proposed. Essential transactions between a company and the majority shareholder should be made transparent and dealt with at a general meeting. We are running out of time, but I would just like to say here in the end that we are positive about the proposal, including the elements relating to equality. There are some things we would like to see tightened up, and we will try that in committee. Then I should also welcome from the SF, which unfortunately cannot be present today, and say that they are also positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170350	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170358	Thank you. The draft law here intends to implement amendments to the Shareholders Rights Directive of 17 May 2017 on the promotion of long-term active ownership. We hear politicians quite often dismayed at the high salaries paid in private business. But basically it does not come to politicians at all about how private companies pay their employees. It is only a matter between the owners of the company and the employees of the company. However, in order for the owners of the company, i.e. the shareholders, to influence wages and bonuses or significant transactions between the company and related parties, it is of course necessary that they be aware of these conditions and also that they use their voting rights at general meetings. It is therefore an excellent proposal that listed companies should be able to identify their shareholders and thus be able to communicate more easily with them, and that there should also be greater transparency about wages and other economic conditions of a significant nature. In this way, shareholders can get to know these facts, and then it is up to them to exercise their right to vote and influence. And then politicians can worry about matters that are relevant to their field of activity. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170526	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Then it's mr. René Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170533	I am here instead of our normal rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, today. Overall, we are very positive about the draft law. There has been a good review of the criticisms that may be made about the minimum implementation. We'll back that up. Whether it is the 92 group or the Social Democrat rapporteur or the Enhedslisten's rapporteur who has pointed this out, it is true. I also think that if more can be built on, let's get it done. In fact, I also believe that in future it will be in the interests of companies to take the initial extra cost, perhaps to overimplement something, if we support that is the direction we would also like to put politically in order to restore confidence in companies that help us drive Denmark well. So perhaps the government no longer needs to be so focused on minimum implementation for the good of companies. In fact, companies may also benefit greatly from being motivated in the longer term to create maximum transparency as possible, because this is a crisis of confidence which is unfortunately growing in relation to the sector, and we can politically help to eliminate it over time. So this is a very good legislative proposal, which we support, although we would like to see a slightly broader implementation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170652	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170701	Thank you. After all, as several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law aims to implement the second shareholder rights directive, which aims to encourage shareholders to actively long-term ownership in listed companies. There are four main elements which have also been mentioned by several previous rapporteurs, but I should like to return to them. Quoted companies are given better opportunities to identify their shareholders, which in turn makes it easier for companies to communicate with their shareholders and thus also promote active co-ownership. Then the bill gives more transparency on the remuneration of the management of the companies, by, among other things, giving them more transparency on the remuneration of the management of the companies. a remuneration policy shall be drawn up for the remuneration of the management board and the management board and a remuneration report shall be published. I think it is fine to focus on the remuneration policy of the listed companies, because then shareholders will also have the right to vote on the remuneration policy at the company's general meeting at any material change and at least every four years. In addition, major transactions to the company's related parties must be approved by the Board of Directors and published an additional element which creates greater transparency. This allows shareholders to better assess the terms and conditions of such transactions. That is sensible, and it is conducive to active co-ownership. Finally, there are institutional investors and asset managers who have to publish a policy on how they intend to take an active part in their investments. Then it is proposed that there is some flexibility, in terms of making this follow-up or explaining principle, which I also think is quite reasonable. So, of course, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170900	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. And we've actually reached the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219170917	Thank you to all parties for the very positive reception all around the proposal for the implementation of amendments to the Shareholders Rights Directive to encourage long-term active ownership. Then all of us have found a prominent place in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. I would like to highlight some of the key points in the draft law. The main objective is to strengthen the active ownership of listed companies, and it is about giving shareholders the opportunity to know what is going on in the companies and to exercise their influence. Shareholders are the ones who decide in the company, and they must have the opportunity to do so. This requires them to know what is going on and that there is a high degree of transparency and transparency in order for them to manage a large, stock-exchange-listed company where there can be very complex conditions that can be difficult to understand. So we want to keep making sure that shareholders are as good as possible in terms of being able to exercise their ownership. This means, among other things, that there is a dialogue with the company. This means that you will have the opportunity to participate and give your vote at the general meetings. The prerequisite for this is, of course, that companies can contact shareholders, and it is therefore proposed here that the companies will have better opportunities to know who the shareholders are, even if ownership takes place through several stages, that there is first some form of holding company and then some shareholders in the end. This allows companies to send more easily information about events in the company, such as: the holding of a general meeting, to shareholders, thereby giving shareholders better opportunities to exercise their rights as shareholders and as owners. Quoted companies shall also develop and publish a remuneration policy for the remuneration of directors and the remuneration policy will lay down the framework for both fixed and variable remuneration. And then companies will have to make and publish a report on the remuneration allocated or to the benefit of each management member for the last financial year and again to create transparency so that shareholders know what the management receives in salary. This can then help to strengthen the debate on whether directors receive the right salary. The government then agrees that it must be up to the shareholders to make that decision, and we are giving them better opportunities now, but we are not going to legislate on what the salary should be; there we believe that private companies have to decide for themselves. Significant transactions between the listed company and related parties must be approved by the top management body of the company, i.e.: the management board, before the transactions are carried out, and information on certain significant transactions shall be published on the company's website. And it is to ensure that you cannot send large amounts of money to your mother or to other related parties, thus emptying the company of assets without at least coming to the knowledge of the top management. The government expects the rules here to encourage shareholders to long-term active ownership, and I am glad, as I said, that there was broad support all around, and although I also noted, of course, that there were some who would like to go further and make more rules on remuneration and various other matters, I am glad that we agree that we are taking a step towards giving shareholders better control over the companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219171311	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments; that must have been very clear speech. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219171332	The debate is open and we start with Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219171348	Thank you for that, President. I should like to start by welcoming the Radicals and saying that they support the proposal. Weak fellow citizens with poor economy and young people with poor economic sense have suffered for years from the fact that we in the Danish Parliament have not adequately regulated and controlled the Quick Loan Market. We started that task during our reign, and that is the task on which this bill is now based. Fast, expensive consumer loans are very easy to take up, even if you do not have a Chineseman's chance to pay them back and thus end up in a morass where one loan is taken out to pay off the other. Debts, debt spirals and debt traps are words that have long taken care of the situation, an excessive proportion of our young, inexperienced citizens and, above all, part of our weak fellow citizens who cannot deal with their own economy have ended up in. This unfortunate state of affairs must be brought to an end, and that is why we need to resort to legislation. In 2015, we completed with broad support than the 48-hour period of the report, from a consumer loan to the money being paid out so that people could think about it. The market understood this quickly, and that is why the regulation has had no effect at all, and certainly not the one we wanted. Today's legislative proposal is now launching controls and austerity to ensure that only citizens with the prospect of being able to pay back will be able to obtain loans. In rapid succession, mention can be made of: the supervision of all providers of consumer credit is tightened; the FSA must issue permits, and boards and management boards must be suitable and honorable; all must be required to make credit ratings of borrowers; one must follow the rules of good practice; the FSA has intervention and sanction options; consumer credit companies are required to report all their loans to the FSA. It all sounds all right, but there are still a large number of shortcomings if we are to get to grips with the problem properly. We believe from the Socialist side that the government in this particular case should be much more offensive and go right to the bone to clean up so that we can seriously put an end to lending to people who have no chance of paying back. Firstly, we lack the crucial instrument to get an overview of who has which loans. We need a national register of all consumer Every night, the CreditStatus is updated with who has taken out new loans, and this means that consumer credit companies may be able to take the view that the CreditStatus or a public counterpart to the CreditStatus must be mandatory for anyone who borrows out for consumption also the banks. Secondly, we need something that specifically protects consumers from falling into debt traps in the first place. We therefore propose that a ceiling be set on the number of loans that can be taken at the same time and that the loans should have a maximum amount. It would also prevent many from debting further once they have become bad payers. In addition, we propose that there should be a ceiling on both the so-called morarent and the ÅOP so that loans do not run out of control. In public space, we are bombarded with advertisements that attract us with these quick loans. Today, the bus can hardly be taken through Copenhagen without being exposed to quick loan advertisements on the screens, just as the advertisements target young consumers, for example. Promise them more money to party at the end of the month. This is a direct disgusting behaviour on the part of the companies. We want a ban on advertising for quick loans in public spaces. We want it to be over. All in all, the Social Democratic Party has proposed ten major tightenings on consumer credit, of which I see only the three dealt with in this bill, and I think that is a pity. It's unambitious, and the government doesn't get this jungle cleaned up properly. It just means that we are about to look at it again shortly when it turns out that the government's proposals do not strike this time either. Unfortunately, that is not the only thing missing from the draft law. No more money has been allocated to the FSA, which has to find money within its own budget to carry out this task. And what about the growing facebook loans? They're unsolved. Should it be permitted to borrow via Facebook, and when is it systematic lending in this context? What happens to consumer rights when the consumer ombudsman is replaced by the FSA, which does not focus on consumers, since they can only act in relation to the lending business? And how do we ensure that statistics on lending come to the public's attention? There are a host of questions to which we need the Minister's answer. The draft law mentions several times that it waits for a working group to make recommendations in this area. When I talk to people from the industry, everyone mentions the need for the national credit register as one of the most important ways of managing consumer credit. So what are we waiting for, and why is the government waiting? If we introduce a national credit register that will be compulsory to use for all those who borrow out for consumption, we will have a quick detection of which quick loan providers are on the wrong side of the line. In the work of the committee, I would like to call on my fellow Members to join forces to get the bucket of consumer credit companies that are gambling with young people and bad payers in particular. There are a number of bad stories about how socially vulnerable people absorb one quick loan after another without being able to pay back the tragic stories from among others. Center for Ludomani, which tells us that some people are taking quick loans in order to play. We must get the stumped vessels out of the market, and therefore the big and brave diet must come out of the stores. We must make it impossible for the irresponsible consumer credit companies to be on the market, and we must press the government to take responsibility for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172032	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172037	Thank you for a very good rapporteur speech with many important points, which we fully share in the Enhedslisten. It is very positive that the Social Democratic Party is now in favour of a ceiling on ÅOP if it is new. As far as I remember, it is new, and it is positive, because that means that perhaps a majority can soon be gathered for it in the Folketing. However, my question relates very specifically to Article 35 and the question of the position of the Consumer Ombudsman in the new one here. Because it is very clear that both the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council Think and the Danish Business Council warns against the fact that this bill weakens and relaxes the rules because it deprives the Consumer Ombudsman of some scope for supervision, conducting cases and gaining insight into what is going on in this area. The Consumer Ombudsman writes directly that restrictions on the competence of the Consumer Ombudsman would be an unnecessary relaxation of the supervision of consumer credit companies' compliance with consumer protection rules. As I say in my rapporteur's speech, we will be tabling an amendment to the draft law which follows up the recommendation to remove this paragraph 35. I just want to hear what the Social Democrats will think of such an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172156	Thank you for the question. I have just one comment to make on ÅOP. There has, of course, been a resolution in this Chamber before that we should set a ceiling on interest rates and so on. We did not vote in favour of this, and that is because we want us to look at this area as a whole. We should not take small elements, we should take it all at once. I believe that this is something that I have attached great importance to in my rapporteur's speech. With regard to the Consumer Ombudsman, I have also noticed that both the Consumer Ombudsman, the Consumer Council Think and the Danish Occupation, I think it was, have said that it will be a weakening. The draft law says several times that this must be a strengthening of consumer rights, and I think that we simply have to get the drill out very clearly during the committee work, and there we can at least find each other. How I am going to propose an amendment I cannot say right now, but I am willing to work on it during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172301	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172302	Yes, because the rather curious thing is, at least if the consumer ombudsman is not wrong, and I doubt that he is doing so, that in that way there is nothing to prevent supervision from being placed under the supervision of the FSA, but at the same time maintain the rights and opportunities that the consumer ombudsman has today. That is why it seems a little strange that the government wants it. The argument is that this is because it is done in the rest of the financial companies, but as the Consumer Ombudsman also writes, the same supervision is not imposed on these consumer credit companies as on other financial companies, and therefore there is no reason why they should also, if I may say so, be exempted from the supervision of the Consumer Ombudsman today. It's hard to understand the logic. I just want to know if the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172345-2	I agree with that. I believe that we are dealing with a particular issue here, where consumers are so much at the centre. That is why it may call for a little different agreements to be made in the financial world. What I am worried about is that this is going to be directed mainly at companies and that consumers are a little forgotten in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172415	Thank you to Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219172430	The draft law here contains a number of improvements to the existing legislation on loans in the form of small loans, consumer loans, uncovered loans, etc. After all, the bill contains the proposal that companies offering consumer loans to consumers should have a licence from the FSA and that they should be subject to a number of consumer protection rules and the government's proposal that the FSA should supervise these consumer credit companies. This will mean that the FSA's usual powers will also apply to these types of lending. Then there is also the part about the Consumer Ombudsman, which ensures that supervisory powers will also be extended so that the companies providing consumer loans will be subject to the same rules as the financial undertakings are subject to today. They may bring legal proceedings against acts contrary to good practice, etc. We actually think this is quite reasonable and we can of course also support the elements that the government has put forward. But I also think there is reason to spend some of the debate discussing the things that are not contained in the government's legislative proposals, because that is perhaps so important. Unfortunately, there are a number of things that the government has not brought into this bill at least, and we in the Danish People's Party hope that these things will be put forward for political consideration. And if it is not during this reign, it must come under a new government that will follow. In any case, we think it is important to clarify when you are a loan provider and when you are not a loan provider. After all, what we are proposing now is that financial undertakings, which are currently subject to control authorities, etc. via the FSA, now must also include those companies that are consumer loan providers. We very much welcome the fact that this enlargement is being achieved, but there are some companies that are taking advantage of the gaps in our legislation that are then quite massive. There is Primutu.dk, for example, who has been in the media here in December as a company that says: Well we are not providers, we are just intermediaries. And vupti, when you don't offer, you obviously don't have to get under it, because you just have a facilitation via a Facebook page, where you then combine a man who needs some money, with someone else who has some, and then there is a good loan of money between private people. A lot of those who get stuck in these credit clamps are typically unbearable. For example, it is people like the person who was in the media coverage that was in the newspaper Denmark in December, where it was a person who lived in a halfway house and who had no permanent residence. Then the person needed 1,000 kroner, and then you borrowed 1,000 kroner. with a citizen you didn't know who was, and then you had to pay $2,000. back 30 days later. It is not only crazy bully practices, but it is also insecure that you do not know who you are borrowing money from. This also meant that the person in question was met at his retirement home by a team of beatings. I hope that this is not the kind of example that is most important in relation to these types of private loans, but that is just what I think the government should perhaps bear in mind, namely that we put out a lot of small fires, but it is still burning away a lot of other places compared to the types of loans that are flourishing. And there, I don't think that this bill will help us deal with, for example, those places where it's loans between private people. In the Danish People's Party we do not share the king's idea that we can just ban loans and then everything goes bad, then everything will be fine. So we do not share that premise. In fact, we believe that it is healthy to have a free, liberalised market in which money can be offered and borrowed. But of course it must be done on reassuring conditions. Nor are we in favour of the ÅOP ceiling being set. We think it must be market forces that manage it. If we create a ceiling called x number percent, yes, some of those below that percentage today will quickly suck up and lie quite comfortably up on ÅOP's max., like all the others do, and then we will sort out part of the free competition. The Danish People's Party does not think this is the right way to do it. We believe that the right way is to regulate legislation, and we believe that this regulation must come by ensuring that the products by which companies are allowed to be credit intermediaries and facilitate the final end-user, consumers, must of course be those that are provided in good, reassuring conditions, where, as a consumer, you also have a good legal cover in relation to being able to raise your case with an appeal board, which, moreover, must be financed and financed by the service providers, provided that you have been exposed to obvious usury, which is also illegal under the credit policy and legislation already in force, as there is in Denmark. So we support the bill, but we would like to tell the government that there are a lot of things that the government has unfortunately forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173040	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173044	It concerns the same thing that I asked the previous rapporteur about. If not all the rapporteurs have read it, I would recommend that all the rapporteurs read the Consumer Ombudsman's hearing very, very carefully. I do not think, therefore, that the assurance contained in the consultation note from the government responds in any way to the criticism that is being made of it if you read it carefully. After all, the case is the one that the Consumer Ombudsman writes: an exception to consumer credit companies from the general supervisory powers of the Consumer Ombudsman will mean that the consumer Ombudsman will no longer be the supervisory authority as regards compliance by consumer credit companies, among other things. civil law, i.e. the contract law, the credit agreement law, the interest rate law, etc. This is due to the fact that the Consumer Ombudsman's supervision of civil law is derived from the supervision of good practice, as is shown in the preliminary work of the Marketing Act, and has also been established by the Supreme Court in a 2013 judgment. So even if it is said that some opportunities are being left over by the consumer ombudsman, this will lead to a weakening of the consumer's ability, for example. to complain and be able to raise cases, and this will weaken the consumer Ombudsman's ability to ascertain such practices because they will simply no longer receive the complaints which bring them to their attention. So I just wanted to know if perhaps the rapporteur would be open in the work of the committee to see if it would now be wise to deprive the consumer Ombudsman of these competences in relation to these companies. Because I think we all agree that what we certainly do not need is less consumer protection in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173227-2	In any case, I fully agree with the latter. We therefore need reliable consumer protection in Denmark, and I would also argue that we have that today. However, there are some places where, unfortunately, there are some that challenge the legislation that there is, including our credit legislation. It must, of course, be analysed. There are some things that Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten would like to get into the committee work, we are of course involved in reading and reading the answers that may come. And, of course, I would like to draw your attention to this. But that is not something I can answer here on the basis that we have, in other words, whether we support the bill. We've read the hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173310	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173311	It is of course not only the Consumer Ombudsman himself, but also the Consumer Council Think and indeed also the Danish Occupation, who writes that it is inappropriate that the consumer ombudsman with the bill loses the competence to take action against market-law infringements, to the extent that infringements will be subject to the good practice which is expected to be introduced on the basis of Section 7 of the Act. 2. In any case, I think that we really should think carefully if the aim here is to improve the legal position of consumers and the regulation of the area. We must not do the opposite. I can therefore be quite concerned about this when I read these hearings. So it is very positive if the rapporteur will be involved in discussing it here in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173354-2	But I can only say the same thing again, namely that I share the concern there is, and I think that if Mr. Pelle Dragsted would like to put those committee questions, I would also like to promise to read them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173406	Thank you, sir. Shipby. And welcome to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Denmark Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173414	Thank you. The Quick Loan market has grown quite a lot, and that also means that we have discussed it in depth and many times politically, because it is problematic when you see that there are people who are in financial trouble because you borrow money that you basically cannot pay back. Sometimes, when there is something we politically do not like, the first instinct is that then let us make a ban, because then the problems will probably go away. Fortunately, I believe that there is a common understanding that the world is not that simple. For the risk is that people who need to borrow money in a short time or with a short time horizon will find the money elsewhere than through a regulated and transparent market. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party referred to some of the other platforms that we are seeing today, and I certainly do not like it if legislation at Christiansborg is likely to mean that we are sending consumers into a market where it is not annual percentage costs that we are talking about, but annual costs at fingertips. That is why we need to create thorough and proper consumer protection by having clear rules; that the market is transparent and that consumers have clear rights. That's basically the purpose of this bill. In my view, therefore, it is a clear strengthening of consumer protection that we move the supervision of the consumer credit market from the consumer ombudsman to the FSA. This means that the supervision of consumer credit providers is strengthened, as is the case with providers who do not have an authorisation as a financial undertaking or a real estate credit company. The proposal must ensure, and I think it is very important to state that consumer credit providers are actually carrying out a real creditworthiness assessment of customers wishing to borrow. A number of criticisms have been made about whether this has been the case, and at least seven-inch nails are being established now. And the bill is part of the strategy presented by the government back in May 2018, namely that the supervision of quick loans needs to be strengthened. This means, therefore, that if a company wishes to offer consumer loans, a licence must be obtained from the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. Consumer credit companies and enterprises granting quick loans and enterprises granting loans for financing will be subject to the supervision of the FSA. I therefore believe that this is more stringent than what the consumer ombudsman can enforce today. The proposal also lays down requirements for consumer protection. The consumer credit companies must operate in good practice and a credit rating assessment must ensure that only loans are granted to consumers who can actually repay. And the product must also be appropriate in relation to the target group. This is therefore a clear increase in relation to the rules in force. I think it is important that we ensure that there is responsible regulation in the case of quick loans, and I think it is natural that if you are offering quick loans, then you must be under the same supervision as banks and other financial companies when you borrow this money. Just to follow up the speeches of the two previous rapporteurs, this is not the ultimate objective. As can also be seen from the consumer policy initiative of the government in May 2018, work is under way, among other things. to look at what Mrs Karin Gaardsted referred to, namely the 48-hour period of reflection that we introduced. In other words, one can either say that it has been extremely effective, because this type of loan is no longer there, but it is more realistic to say that the market has found a way around it. The question is whether we actually achieve the thoughtfulness that we, a broad majority in Parliament, thought very well. The discussions on a debt register There are also different models of what is going on in the work that continues to take place. So we have not finished tightening up the rules here, because it is important that there is clear and effective legislation in this area. Consumers have a clear legal position. We need to supervise and ensure that loans are not offered to people who do not have a Chineseman's chance to get them paid back. Basically, I believe that this bill is an important step in the right direction. That is why, of course, we support the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173910	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219173913	Yes, and it is a continued drilling of the Consumer Ombudsman. Because I understand that what the rapporteur of the Left is pointing out is that it is now being placed under the supervision of the FSA, and that is where it should lie. But one of the points that the Consumer Ombudsman is pointing out is that even if you put this in, so you have to be approved by the FSA, these consumer credit companies are not subject to the financial legislation at all, nor are they subject to this bill, so it is still a special group. The consumer Ombudsman also points out that there are a number of other sectors of companies which also have sector-based regulation, i.e. such things as food, debt collection and a number of others, but which are also covered by the rules of the Marketing Act on good practice. So there is nothing wrong with saying that we are dealing here with a particular type of company, which is not a financial institution, and which is not covered by the rules which otherwise apply to financial undertakings, and that is why we have supervision, the FSA, in relation to a licence, but we still need supervision, the Consumer Ombudsman, in relation to the protection of consumers' interests, for example. in relation to unfair interest and information and marketing and such.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174027	In fact, I believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself gave part of the answer, namely that supervision is transferred from the Consumer Ombudsman to the FSA. It is true that then there are some things that the consumer ombudsman no longer has to deal with, but that the FSA should take care of instead. In my view, however, let us get it further in committee, so that we have a common understanding of it, the FSA's toolbox is tougher, and it is a tougher supervision in relation to what the consumer ombudsman can do, that is to say, authorisation must be granted where the consumer ombudsman intervenes if there is a breach of good practice. I mean there, and that is the intention of the draft law, so I hope we will be able to clarify that so that we can see the same thing, hopefully, on the fact that it is clear that we are tightening the rules. That is the whole purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174125	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174127	I understand that the FSA is tough when it comes to something like solvency and compliance with money laundering rules and things like that, but then there are these specific issues that are about this one, for example. very aggressive marketing to customers, about misleading marketing, about everything that has typically been left by the consumer ombudsman. It is at least the consumer ombudsman's own concern; they say that this will be the case for most of us, but that it would be extremely difficult to show that consumer credit companies are in breach of the requirements in practice to such an extent as to allow business to be involved. Although it will be possible to withdraw the company's authorization, this will hardly ever happen, it will lose the opportunity to complain to the consumer ombudsman and that way through to get some cases raised. I mean, it's not to be polemical, but it would be really a shame to come out after a third reading, where we have actually weakened consumer protection, so I really think this is an area we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174221	Well, I very much agree that we should not stand by a third reading in which we weaken consumer protection. The whole exercise here is to strengthen supervision and strengthen consumer protection. I welcome the recognition that the FSA has some rather tough tools and that the way in which the approach is done is different from the fact that companies now need a permit, and thus there is a sharper setup around it. And, of course, I hope that the necessary questions can be put during the committee procedure so that we can come to a common understanding, because that is the whole purpose, and I think that is quite clear from the draft law. But let us at last be sure that we have a common understanding of what is the whole essence of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174314	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174331	Thank you. As has been shown, we fully support the aim of the proposal, namely to get more control over these consumer credit companies or quick loan companies, which we have spent a lot of time discussing in here, and which are of course something that concerns many people out there, because a lot of people are going wrong. It's an industry that's got a lot of problems with. There may be some non-brothered vessels, but in my opinion it is actually an industry which is very much a stray vessel. Because as we have seen from the debates we have had in here and the studies that have been done, it turns out that a very large part of the business model in this industry is bad payers. In other words, we are simply making money out of the fact that there are people who do not have the ability to pay and who are therefore going to be stuck with very large interest rates and charges. After all, a judgment has just been handed down which shows that an ÅOP, i.e. an annual cost rate, is allowed to do so at almost 800 per cent. It is therefore legal within the rules in force, which is why I am very pleased that there is an indication from the Social Democratic Party that this is something we want to address with a ceiling on ÅOP that is something we are very strongly in favour of. And it could be that there could be a majority on the other side of a parliamentary election. I think that would be the very best we could do in this area. It is positive, as a starting point, that we would like to bring this under the supervision of the FSA. In other words, it is strange that you can just set up a consumer credit company which lends out millions without having a license for financial business. It is usually the case in Denmark that if you have to run a bank, you have to have a license from the state. This is something special in this area in relation to all sorts of other areas, and it is because it recognises that the financial sector is a special sector. So it is positive, and it is also positive, that the requirements for credit ratings will be increased, although it is rather unclear what the outcome of this legislation will actually be. If you still want to open up such a statistical algorithm-based authentication, it might be so. But it's positive. It should be pointed out, however, that this does not mean that these quick loans are covered by the law on financial activities. In other words, they are placed under the supervision of the FSA, but it is not the case that they are covered by the rest of the tough legislation that we have in the financial field. And that is also what brings me to the next question, which is the big one in this proposal: the role of the Consumer Ombudsman. When I read the Consumer Ombudsman's hearing answer, I get really, really worried. Because what is actually very clear is that with this bill we risk weakening consumer protection and weakening the supervision of the area. For the consumer ombudsman, who has, after all, been conducting a number of cases in this area, gets his insight and finds the problems in this area through the complaints that come from consumers and losing that supervisory right, you will no longer have the opportunity to supervise it and thus receive that type of complaint and thus be able to raise these cases. So the consequences of moving this competence, as I read the answer, are therefore somewhat more far-reaching than what the minister answers in the consultation note. Because this results from the loss of supervision of good practice under the marketing rules, and this has a number of ramifications in relation to the competences of the Consumer Ombudsman. I think, or at least I hope, that all the parties in this House agree that it would be a really great mistake to commit to weaken consumer protection, and so I think that we all have a common responsibility to read that consultation answer carefully and to have the drill drilled and asked the Minister during the committee's reading about it here and what is actually the sensible answer as to why it cannot be done on the one hand that these consumer lenders should be allowed to operate and have to report these things to them, but in other words not subject to financial legislation, but at the same time maintain the consumer ombudsman's ability to carry out supervision, cases and so on. to the extent that you can today. As far as I can see, there is nothing to prevent this Parliament from adopting it, if that is what we want, so simply delete the section 35 as far as I remember, from the draft law, as the Consumer Ombudsman suggests, as the Consumer Council Thinks suggests, and as the Danish Business Administration would like to point out, a party that might be more closely listened to in the parties over here on the right. So our position on this bill will depend on clarification of this, and that is also the position of the SF, I should like to say from their rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174849	Thank you to Pelle Dragsted and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174856	Thank you. According to this bill, all companies providing consumer loans will come under the control and supervision of the FSA, i.e. whether you are a bank or a company lending for consumption. The proposal obliges all companies providing loans to make a real credit rating of the borrower, so as to ensure that the borrower has the ability to repay and, at the same time, minimises the risk of stalled vessels in the industry, in that everyone must be approved according to fit and property rules, in other words, meet the requirements of suitability and integrity. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174936	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219174946	It seems that there is a consensus that we must ensure that consumer protection is strengthened, in other words that it is not weakened. That's what this whole bill is all about. I think it is a good thing that the rapporteur on the Left agrees with Mr Enhedslisten's report that what we have to stress is that we should not weaken consumer safety in this matter by moving supervision to precisely the FSA from the Consumer Ombudsman. In the alternative, we are in favour of the proposal. We are also very much in favour of moving to the FSA, but with regard to what is being raised by the Consumer Council Think and also the Consumer Ombudsman in the hearings which have been discussed and discussed in the Chamber today, it must be ensured in committee that there is no accidental effect there which actually weakens consumer safety. It certainly sounds like you can make this change, which is wanted by the government, without removing the possibility for the consumer ombudsman, even if you move supervision. At least that's how I understood it when I looked things through. But let us look at it, it would be desirable. Then I think that the Social Democrat rapporteur gave an excellent review of what we really would have liked more. I do not want to repeat that, but in order to contribute a little new to the debate, I can say that sometimes it seems stronger if there is someone you might not have expected to be so scratched in the rhetoric about something that should be done about, like lifting the voice and saying that something needs to be done about this. A few months ago, I listened to an audio book called "God preserve the freedom of payment" by Financial's debate editor Magnus Barsøe, and there were not many fingers between him when he talked about exactly this subject in relation to quick loans and consumer loans. It was certain that something had to be done. Many of the elements here in the draft law are similar to what was said by the debater and the journalist from Finance, and I think it is essential that it is not just a fight against some business companies with a broken reputation. It is now empirically proven, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also said earlier, that it is simply a business model that exploits the weakest in society • those who are already at risk. Then there's x percent of those who use these quick loans or consumer loans, who actually have a lot of use because they can't get loans anywhere else and otherwise would go even worse. That is why, of course, we must maintain the possibility, even though it is largely a highly dubious business model that actually makes a living from people not paying their bills. Then you put on some very large fees and land on some crazy percentages of refunds. This little anecdote that there is a debate editor on Finance, who is also very scratched in the rhetoric, I actually come along to say that we support the bill, but sometimes it is important that we do not make it a question of the left and right when we stand here on the platform, because it actually has nothing to do with it. We would very, very much like to support this bill which will tighten sanctions against quick loan providers, but we would like more, and that is not to make it harder for companies to survive. It is simply because it is an unhealthy business model, and we are not the only ones who think so. It is not politically motivated, so that there are some companies that must be extremely difficult. What is important to us is simply that we understand a common analysis of what this sector is actually making a living on, and it is in our view to make the most of those who have no ability to pay, those who are very weak and earn money from them, and we are, of course, against that. So we're positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219175345	Thank you, sir. René Gade. Well, that's the ride to sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219175356	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as the previous rapporteurs have said, is intended to strengthen the supervision of consumer credit providers. This must be done through the supervision of consumer loan companies by the FSA. This will mean that greater demands will be made for a real credit rating for consumers wishing to borrow. Today it is too easy for some consumers to take out a loan and therefore they can end up in a hopeless financial situation. It is, of course, first and foremost the responsibility of each borrower not to overburden himself, but we, as a society, also have a responsibility and a duty to protect those in a weak situation, as some of these borrowers do today. On the whole, the legislative proposal and the change in supervision will mean that, compared to today, greater demands will be made on lenders, and this is an area where there is room for improvement, especially with the real credit rating. It is fine that it is relatively easy to obtain a loan, but of course it must not be at the expense of a missing or deficient credit rating. That is why we also welcome the tightening up of the Conservative People's Party and our support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219175521	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, and we shall not avoid the Minister having an opportunity too, and it is his turn now. Welcome to the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219175539	It is, of course, a disadvantage that I have to live with, that I also have to say something, as the President, who is from the red-greens, says. But there are no problems in that, at least not for me, but it can of course be tiresome for the House. Thank you for the comments and the positive reception of the draft law by most. The draft law strengthens consumer protection in the financial field, and it is absolutely a strengthening of consumer protection and certainly not the opposite, since consumer credit providers are subject to stricter regulation and supervision. From now on, all consumer loan providers will be subject to supervision and supervision by the FSA regardless of whether the provider is a bank or a consumer loan business. The consultation has shown that there is broad support for this and is aimed at strengthening consumer protection. The introduction of tighter supervision of consumer credit companies should be seen in the light of the fact that it is now easy for individual consumers to borrow a consumer loan. Consumer loans are available on the Internet, in the retail trade and in the banks. It is therefore important to ensure that easy access to consumer loans does not lead consumers to take out loans which they cannot afford to repay. The draft law obliges consumer credit companies to carry out a real creditworthiness assessment of individual consumers wishing to borrow a consumer loan. This must be done before the company and the consumer enter into an agreement. Furthermore, consumer credit companies are subject to an obligation to offer only products which have been deemed appropriate in advance for the consumer group offered to the products. This means, among other things, that it will not, as a rule, be legal to target consumer loans to consumers who are registered as bad payers. These consumers have a poor ability to pay, and therefore they should not be offered loans at all. In addition, consumer credit companies must have business practices in order to comply with the rules of good practice. Measures must ensure that easy access to consumer credit does not result in consumers being caught in a debt trap where consumers are borrowing consumer loans which they cannot afford to repay. With the bill, we also minimise the risk of breaking pots entering the consumer credit market. Specifically, the draft law requires consumer credit companies to be allowed to carry out consumer credit operations. The authorisation will be granted only on condition that the undertaking's management board and management board or the manager meets the requirements of suitability and good repute. If a consumer loan company infringes its obligations under the law, the FSA will be able to withdraw the company's authorisation and the penalty will ensure that companies comply with the law. It is, after all, a clear tightening up compared to today. I understand that a little has been said about the role of the Consumer Ombudsman, and I believe that we will not lack any of the competences that the Consumer Ombudsman has today, because some of them are being transferred to the FSA. The supervision that what is called "good practice" means that you treat your customers properly will be in the FSA instead of the Consumer Ombudsman, but that does not mean that the protection of consumers will be reduced. I believe that the FSA has the power to supervise this kind of activity and is probably better at assessing whether those who offer loans, among other things. makes a proper rating of their customers, because that is one of the things the FSA has a great deal of knowledge about. That's why we feel that it's a good place under the Danish FSA. It should be borne in mind that everything called marketing rules still leaves the consumer ombudsman the same scope for supervision as today. So if misleading marketing is carried out, such as advertising that misleads consumers, gives false information or leaves consumers with a wrong impression and does not give them the information they are entitled to, then the consumer ombudsman will be able to continue to take action. We therefore believe that a good division of labour has been found. I also think it is right to place responsibility for the individual supervisory tasks somewhere rather than to have distributed it to several different authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180027	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180028	As I also said in the rapporteur's speech, I fully agree with the Minister and with the intention of the proposal. However, in view of the fact that nothing is so lost in the transfer to the FSA, I hope that is also what we will be able to see when the committee procedure is completed, so that it is true that nothing is going to be lost. However, in view of the fact that in the past the consumer ombudsman has been able to take a case for the individual consumer, is it not an element that one loses? You get something else in the FSA, and I fully agree that in many ways it is much better, but isn't that element something you're going to lose? The FSA cannot do that, and it is not my experience that the consumer ombudsman will be able to bring matters to the individual in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180116	For example, the consumer Ombudsman will continue to be able to bring claims for damages on behalf of individual consumers who may have been cheated. But of course it is true that the consumer ombudsman will not be the first place to control good practice and may thus have less knowledge of what is going on. That's so true. I would like to have an overview of the tasks of the Ombudsman today, and of the tasks to be carried out in the future, with a view to the committee procedure that several of the rapporteurs are looking forward to, and thus qualifying the debate a little, in relation to the competences to which they are assigned, so that there can then be an enlightened debate in committee. As I said, I believe that there will not be significant tasks that will be lost between two chairs but that we have the same supervision. Just some of it is transferred to the FSA, and some of it stays with the Consumer Ombudsman. In general, however, I believe that this is clearly a strengthening of consumer protection. But, as I said, I would like to offer you an overview.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180239	That's very good. We would very much like to accept the outstretched hand and accept such a note or an overview. Our own cost-benefit analysis of it is also that it is an improvement, but it is clear that we must be absolutely sure that there is nothing we have overlooked. So we thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180254	The next is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180257	Thank you. Borrowers must not target offers of loans to people who obviously cannot pay. That is how I understand the Minister. Can the Minister give some examples of this? Does this mean, for example, that the following should not be advertised: loan money to party at the end of the month?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180322	I very much do not want to be extremely precise with some very, very specific examples. Because that's what they say here, and that's where the law needs to be completely sharp. Perhaps I would like to offer a written reply to that with some examples of who it might be. There are, of course, some principles which must then be enforced by the FSA, and there I think it is more appropriate that they should be written down thoroughly and precisely, rather than just inventing this from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180400	Of course, I am fully satisfied with that. However, I also have another question, and this is about the credit rating, and it is of course very important that a careful and proper credit rating is carried out. Does the Minister believe that a proper rating can be made over the network?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180419	I'd say there could be. It depends very much on what information you have on the Internet, but I would say that you could, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180432	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180436	It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister is going to give us some very detailed information about this. I don't know if we really need a technical review of this issue, but we need to look at that. Let me just ask one question that the Minister might be able to answer now. The consumer Ombudsman writes very clearly that the bill can easily be implemented without excluding consumer credit companies from the Consumer Ombudsman's general supervision of compliance with civil consumer protection legislation. Can the Minister confirm that there is no legal obstacle to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180512	Yes, it is also my view that there should be no legal obstacle to this kind of division. We do not think this would be appropriate. But it is my view that it could be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180523	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180525	I would like to know why this is not appropriate. For one of the points that the Consumer Council is pointing out is that it is no longer likely to complain to the Consumer Council, and so they will no longer have the insight they have today. Then there is the answer that has been put in the consultation note, which is that this is now placed, like other financial companies, under supervision, and that may be reasonable enough, and I fully agree with the Minister that, for example, the Commission is not in a position to take any action. Such a thing as the assessment of whether the credit rating is good enough is more natural in the FSA. That's what they do with other banks. But they are not covered by a large number of other rules. They do not come under the law on financial activities or financial legislation in general, which is why I find it difficult to understand why they should then be exempted from the Consumer Ombudsman. I simply find it difficult to understand the argument as to why this is sensible, other than that I can see, as the Consumer Ombudsman also points out, that the branch organisation for quick loan banks has been very interested in freeing the consumer ombudsman's claws, if I may say so. But otherwise I find it hard to see what the arguments are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180636	The argument is, of course, that we believe that the FSA will be able to monitor consumer credit companies effectively and effectively, just as they do the banks. Now I know that there is some discussion at the moment about how well supervision has been in all situations, but basically that is what the FSA can do: you can supervise companies that offer financial products. And this is a kind of financial product, which is why we think we are well covered by putting it there. I have great respect for the Consumer Ombudsman, but this is an authority which is directly specialised in the type of activity of lending.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180719	Thank you, Minister. So just to correct a misunderstanding: it is the acting President of the Danish Parliament's joy every time the Minister for Industry contributes to the debate in the Danish Parliament and he is warmly welcome every time an opportunity is offered. Thank you for your contribution today. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180816	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219180820	This is one of these proposals, which we hope will never ever be applied in relation to compensation payments. The aim is to establish a new system to compensate for damage caused by terrorist attacks by the use of nuclear, biological, chemical and radioactive weapons, in other words, what is called NBCR terrorism. Then we've made it clear. The current anti-terrorist insurance scheme in the field of non-life insurance is from 2008 and aims to support a private market for insurance against NBCR terrorism without direct support to individual companies, so that companies and citizens can protect themselves against the financial consequences of this type of terrorist activity. The existing scheme is based on the fact that the State reinsurance guarantee is triggered when payments related to NBCR terrorist damage exceed a level that brings 25-30 per cent. of the private insurance market in solvency problems. It is not mandatory for insurance companies to offer this NBCR terrorist coverage in their policies. Now it has happened that the insurance industry has pointed out that the companies in the scheme are considering whether they should continue to offer this coverage in the case of NBCR terrorist attacks. The challenge facing insurance companies is that it is very difficult to calculate the insurance aspects of NBCR terrorist attacks. After all, the risks associated with terrorist attacks using this type of weapon are very difficult to calculate, because fortunately there is a rare occurrence of them, and also because there is a potentially very significant amount of damage that makes it very difficult to get some very safe calculations through the ordinary calculation methods. This means that there are very limited opportunities for Danish insurance companies to purchase reinsurance on NBCR risks in the international reinsurance market, and this is the challenge facing insurance companies today. Now there is the imminent risk that they will no longer offer this terrorist coverage, and thus the Danish insurers will be unable to insure against financial losses in NBCR terrorist attacks. We must, of course, respond to that here from Christiansborg, which is why I think we should also welcome this bill. The aim of the draft law is then to replace the existing scheme with a scheme whereby insurance companies assume only the management of the insurance scheme, but not the non-insurable financial risk of NBCR terrorism. This also ensures that economic operators and citizens continue to be able to obtain compensation for the economic consequences of NBCR terrorist attacks, and of course we fully support that. The specific content of the bill is that, as in the current scheme, it is proposed to be administered by the Terror Insurance Council of relevant authorities and people from the insurance industry, and that the new terrorist insurance scheme should be based on the fact that the financial risk of NBCR terrorist attacks is initially borne by the state. The compensation shall then be paid to the injured persons through the Terror Insurance Council. Payments are financed by a government on-lend, i.e. a loan contracted by the Ministry of Finance of the National Bank and then re-located to other institutions. The payments made by the Terror Insurance Council, consisting of compensation amounts and administrative costs, are then paid by fire insurance customers to the State through contributions from all policy holders on fire insurance. It is very wise that the payment of contributions will only be made after an incident has led to compensation payments under the scheme, which seems to be a quite proper priority, because then we will not bind any passive funds that can otherwise benefit society and citizens. The state involvement in this must remain at the level of 13.4 billion. kr. in 2010-price level, so that Social Democracy can support that. I also welcome the radical rapporteur, who is still out among the citizens, and say that the Radical Left also supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181255	Thank you, sir. Thomas Jensen, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181304	As was said by the Social Democrat rapporteur, it is a draft law establishing a new system of compensation for damage which may result from a terrorist attack on Danish territory by the use of nuclear, biological, chemical or radioactive weapons. It is a form of insurance in relation to a situation in which, of course, I never ever hope that Danish society will stand in, either civilly or in relation to the many Danish companies. Unfortunately, however, we are living in the real world and we must take due account of the possible dangers and risks involved in moving around here on the planet. Unfortunately, it is not a compulsory scheme that exists today via insurance companies, and that means that many of the consumers really do not know whether they are actually covered by their different policies in these areas where it will work with the new legislation here and where you will then get some kind of payment model. The draft law is a new main law, which then replaces the current law on terrorist insurance schemes in the field of non-life insurance. That is all well and good enough, and then I think it is good to point out that the Minister is also reassuring us by stating in the written submission that this new insurance model is operating within the same maximum framework: EUR 15 billion. kr., or 13.4 billion. kr., if you calculate it from 2010 figures. However, this corresponds to the maximum state coverage in the existing scheme. But the clarification and the new law welcomes the Danish People's Party. We think it is right and also timely care to have these perhaps a bit creepy, but also perspectiveful approaches to what might happen if Denmark were to be included in various terrorist attacks in future threats. So the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181518	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, and welcome to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181524	Thank you. I think I will set aside my rapporteur's speech a little, because I really think that the two previous rapporteurs have given a very thorough account of the content of the draft law, in other words that it is basically about ensuring that our insurance system is properly designed, that the unfortunate thing should happen that we were subjected to a terrorist attack. I will not repeat what has been said. It is quite reasonable that we should ensure that a system that enters into force should have the unhappy happen, modernised so that it can deal with today's conditions. It is quite reasonable that we should have the legislation adjusted in this area, and we support that from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181609	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, and welcome to Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181616	We can also support this proposal from the Enhedslisten. Of course, we never hope it will apply, but sometimes we have to prepare for the worst possible, and that is what this proposal is about: a nuclear or biological or chemical attack on Denmark. It makes sense for there to be insurance cover, and we think it is sensible to think in the same direction as we already do with the flood cover. So we support the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181650	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted, and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181658	I think I will also put my speech aside a little, because there is not so much more to say than that this is quite sensible: that we want to safeguard our citizens in a situation if the terrible thing should happen that Denmark is subjected to a terrorist attack. So in the Liberal Alliance we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181722	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, and welcome to Mr May-Britt Kattrup. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181728	I approve. It is so sensible and timely to ensure that we stand as we should if a terrible incident should take place. And, of course, the insurance industry has very, very difficult conditions for itself to provide a service that will match what has been proposed here today. So we're backing up, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181750	Thank you, sir. René Gade. And then we're gonna have to take a look around. We've come to sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181800	Thank you. Of course, we also support the bill. This is, of course, a situation in which we never hope that Denmark will stand. But it is fine that with this bill, if nothing else, we will ensure that the insured persons are still covered if the unfortunate situation arises. So we think a sensible solution has been found to this, and we can back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181826	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and I am very pleased to welcome the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219181835	Thank you, and it is a great pleasure to take the platform once again. I looked up a screenshot of a story about the bill on Facebook yesterday, where it was reproduced in the way that now we wanted to insure against nuclear attacks. And that's actually true, but it's a small part of it. It is about wider damage caused by nuclear, biological, chemical or radioactive weapons; what is called NBCR. On Facebook, I was also accused that it had to be electoral pork, because now the election was approaching. And I thought that maybe it wasn't the most popular case we've found here, but we're making this arrangement with broad support from the Folketing, because we think it's timely care also to ensure that there's an arrangement in place if the unhappy one day should happen that Denmark was hit by a terrorist attack. I do not want to repeat the very good reproductions of the content of the system, which in fact have already been made by several of the rapporteurs, but I can just add a few things. The State will initially replace economic damage to buildings, land, vehicles, ships and movable property following an NBCR terrorist attack. The policyholders will then collectively pay back the State's attachment through a supplement to their insurance premiums. And that means there's no bill until there's an attack. If there is an attack, the state will lay out, and it is against insurance premiums that it will be paid back for a long time. When this is needed, that is what some of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, because the risk of such extremely rare attacks is very difficult to calculate, and therefore it is also very difficult to buy insurance on the market. This simply means that insurance companies no longer want to offer insurance against NBCR terrorism, and that means that we can risk being in a situation where people are not covered. Normally, as a citizen in particular, we would say that the market must offer the assurances that consumers want, and then it is people's own responsibility to pay for the insurance they want. Here it does not work because it is so rare that there is this kind of attack, so it is incredibly difficult to calculate what probability will be, and therefore it is very difficult to make an insurance cover. This means that there will simply be no possibility of buying this product, and therefore it is that we are making a state scheme which means that the state goes in and covers in the first place and then pays it back collectively by the policyholders. In the event of an NBCR terrorist attack, the State will make a re-loan to a Terror Insurance Council, which will convey the payment to the injured persons. Private insurance companies help with the administration of the scheme in return for payment, in the same way as is known from the storm flood scheme. The Board of Terror Insurance shall be composed of representatives from the Ministry of Business, the Ministry of Finance, the FSA and the insurance sector. Reloan will be a maximum of 15 billion. DKK, which is indexed, that is 2019 level. If the scheme is activated, the State's expenditure will be repaid by way of collections from all beneficiaries of the scheme by means of a supplement per year. insurance policy at 5%. of the premium per year years. And then you'll have to see how many years it takes to pay it back. Depends on how much damage it is. The scheme is administered by the Terrorist Insurance Council and it is thus the Council which decides in the event of an incident whether the scheme is activated, pays the compensations and supervises the scheme. The proceedings are conducted within the scope of the insurance companies' tax and administrative set-up, and companies will be subject to the supervision of the Terrorist Insurance Council. The proposed scheme covers to the same extent as the old scheme and is linked to the types of insurance that have so far typically included cover at NBCR terrorism. It is therefore intended that consumer and business coverage will continue unchanged and without transitional periods in which no scheme will cover. For citizens, the scheme means that they no longer have to monitor whether their insurance covers damage caused by an NBCR terrorist attack. If they have an insurance covering fire, they are covered by the scheme. This also means that everyone with a fire insurance must pay to the scheme in the unhappy situation, that Denmark is attacked with NBCR terrorism and the scheme therefore pays compensations. For insurance companies, this means that they no longer bear the risk of NBCR terrorism. However, they continue to deal with the damage. Contrary to the current scheme, the State must now bear the financial risk from the first injury, but is compensated by the repayments from the policyholders. I appreciate the broad support. I look forward to hearing about the committee procedure and, of course, I am happy to answer any questions that might arise in connection with that procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219182402	You're welcome to the Minister of Business. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. And if any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219182438	Since this is a question, the rapporteurs sit up here in the first parquet and the ministers are also warmly welcome to use the very first chairs so that you can feel like a part of the community. I can see that we will soon have everyone in place who wants and has the opportunity to take part in the debate, so that we start when all the technology is in place. Now I have been informed that the technique is working and that people are physically present. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 February 2019. And I would like to ask the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, to explain the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219182734	It's actually this year, in a month's time, 20 years ago, that I first came in here in the Folketing, so there's a little fun from the audience about if I don't know the rules. And I would say that I was just concerned that there have never been so many women in the front row of the Folketing before. I believe that the 1915 Constitutional Assembly would have torn its hair if they saw how many women have come in the front row now. Nor have there ever been so many people named Pernille in the front row, I would like to say. So there's a lot of storywriting today. Well, we have to discuss something today that is much more serious than that, because we have to discuss our children. And children in Denmark are generally incredibly good. Children in Denmark are probably the generation that has ever grown up with the safest and best framework. These things have to be said, because over the next few months we in the Parliamentary Assembly will be addressing the group that is not feeling very well. Unfortunately, there is an alarming increase in the number of children with anxiety, loneliness, suicidal thoughts, self-harming behaviour, mental disorders and eating disorders. And we believe that, in the light of the ongoing investigations, all alarm bells should be flickered in relation to how good we as a society are at dealing with these problems. I should like to say at the outset that it is the view of the Social Democratic Party that we must be very careful not to stare too blindly at what, in our opinion, is the symptom, namely that the children are miserable. We need to look at the framework around them, we need to look at the parents: Are they drinking too much? Are the parents too busy? Are they even stressed? Do they themselves have anxiety and depression? Yes, they do. It flushes over the Western world and there is the greatest increase in any field whatsoever, just as far as the suffering is concerned, and of course the children are also affected. We need to look at the residential areas in which they grew up. We need to look at the sexual abuse that we have never dealt with as a society. We need to look at the general problems of abuse. So we have to look at the framework around our children, because we are looking too blindly at what is the symptom. the children's anxiety, self-harming behaviour, stress, etc. Then I almost assume that the governing parties will say that we have done everything possible and much, and I do not actually underestimate that. I mean, I kind of think this is a problem that over the last few years we have been debating much more and doing much more about than they did in the first decade, I was sitting in Parliament now that we were just in over how long I have been sitting here. So there's no doubt that the focus on this area has gotten bigger. For us, it is just important that the proportions are put in place, namely that when there is such a large increase in the number of children who are miserable, then we must actually bring out the huge political guns. It is therefore incredibly appropriate that we sit in the front row and also incredibly appropriate that my own Prime Minister's candidate has decided to be Prime Minister of the children. In fact, I believe that this is exactly where the agenda belongs, in the front row of the Folketing. All the alarm bells must jam when children are miserable, so I look forward very much to today's debate and am very pleased that all three ministers are running for this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219183048	Thank you. To those who follow the debate, I can say that one or more ministers have been asked a question. There is a justification for what we have now received and then the ministers will have the opportunity to answer the question. After the replies, there is a debate in which all the rapporteurs have the opportunity to take part in the debate. But there is also now an opportunity to ask each of the ministers one question. Here you go to the first minister who is the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219183126	Thank you for the question and therefore the opportunity for the question debate we have today on the growing dissatisfaction among children and young people, which is being held with both the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, the Minister for Education and myself as Minister for Health. Children and young people are our future, they are the foundation of our society, and therefore the well-being of children and young people is also high on the government's agenda. This applies especially to children and young people's mental health, which is incredibly crucial to their life course. That is why it is also an important area to lift, and among other things. Therefore, in September last year, the government launched the Psychiatry Action Plan • Together, we promise with a significant focus on children and young people. The government presented an ambitious plan and direction across health, social, education, justice, education and research, towards 2025. As Minister for Health in my introduction, of course, I will focus very much on the part relating to health, which is why the part relating to children and young people who do not just have a mental problem, but have a mental illness and illness that we must deal with. And I know that my fellow ministers will focus on the parts that relate to their areas. As Minister for Health, I share the concerns of the authors of the motion for a resolution on the unfortunate developments in the mental health of children and young people. Almost 24 per cent. of 16-24-year-old girls in the most recent health profile indicate that they have poor mental health and at the same time were 53 per cent. more children and young people in 2017 in contact with the regional psychiatry compared to 2010. This is a challenge that we must all be better able to tackle together, so that we can seize children and young people before their evil in life develops into miserable and risk of developing real diagnoses. I also believe that, as a government, we have highlighted and acted against this background, not least with the Psychiatry Action Plan and subsequent negotiations and also with the Agreement on the Health Rate Pool, where we also jointly ensured a significant focus on children and young people, and I will come back to that a little later. First of all, I would like to address the issue of the causes of the growing distrust, because this is an area where we know something, but where we also have to recognise that we lack knowledge. We know that individual, social and structural factors can both protect and also constitute a risk factor for mental health. This means that, for example, lack of sleep, physical inactivity, stressful stresses can have a negative impact on mental health, while doing something active together with others that are meaningful can help to promote our mental health. It is a knowledge that also forms the basis for the Danish Health Authority's prevention package, which provides concrete recommendations for offers and frameworks for the municipalities' prevention efforts in relation to mental health. It is nothing new that young people can be a difficult period and that many young people today are also exposed to a social media culture with a focus on perfection and achievement, probably also to a greater extent than previous generations of children have been a culture where young people are constantly on, and where they too, we must say, unfortunately judge and judge each other harder and 24-7. Where it was perhaps in the past concentrated on a little fewer arenas, so that you could also take time off, it is today the case that very many young people feel that they are at 24-7. Many people can navigate it and fortunately for it, because that is also what it is: fortunately, there are a large number of our children and young people who thrive very well and who also thrive on some points better and do better than they have done in the past. However, there are also some who cannot navigate in the challenging world, and there is no doubt that as Minister for Health I worry about the young people who cannot navigate it and who feel that the pressure is too great. Recently, we have talked about the importance of social media, positive communities, friendships that matter. As a government, and also as a former Left Government, we have taken a number of initiatives to combat bullying and against distrust in schools and to create positive communities for young people where they are there for each other. We also know that perfection culture, fictional body ideals, but also technological opportunities in relation to the well-being of young people, can help to be part of what changes and creates challenges as well as opportunities. However, we must also say that we still lack evidence-based knowledge of which and how different factors affect children and young people's mental health. This was also the reason why the government, with the Psychiatry Action Plan, proposed the launch of a knowledge project to shed light on the causes of the growing distrust among children and young people, so that we could get behind and gain more knowledge. I am still sorry today that there was no support for that proposal when we had to negotiate the pool agreement in the field of psychiatry. I think, in fact, that we could benefit from having a larger project of knowledge and getting behind some of the causes. It was gratifying that funds are being given to the State Institute for Public Health with the payment of the health promotion pool. They create knowledge of possible contextual causes, such as socio-economics and family conditions, for the development of mental health among Danish young people over the last 16 years. However, I think it is a pity that in the pool negotiations on the Psychiatry Action Plan, we were unable to reach agreement on making a major project of knowledge about children and young people's mental distrust as well. What matters to me is that we not only talk about young people in terms of their well-being, but also actually talk to young people and involve young people. We need to get better at meeting children and young people at eye level, starting from what fills young people today in turning off the electronic media, instead of being there in the moment with each other. And as politicians and societies, we simply need to get better at involving young people and listening to their voices, also in relation to the legislative framework. That was also the reason why the government and I set up a youth panel which, just before Christmas, provided their nine good advice on how to improve the mental well-being of young people. If you take the nine advices, they clearly illustrate that there is a need for a broad and multi-stringed effort if we are to break the sad curve. We must focus both on the media and on digital education, on body ideals and sexuality, but also on the presence of the right efforts and on ensuring that all children and young people are part of a meaningful community where parents are also present in their daily lives. At the same time, we must recognise that children and young people's mental health is a challenge that goes far beyond Denmark's borders. It is an international agenda where there is still a lack of knowledge about the causes of children and young people's mental health. Therefore, it is also important to say that this is not just a discussion we have in Denmark; it is a discussion that we see in many Western societies. This does not mean that we should sit in our hands and wait for solutions, and that is why we, as a government, have been very concerned about ensuring an earlier, more tracking and coherent effort where help can be found closer to everyday life and the relationship with education and family life can be maintained. With the psychiatry plan and the agreement on the rate pool, we have helped to secure approx. 2.1 billion kr. to the psychiatry area and that there is a significant focus on children and young people, and more of the funds are permanent funds for the psychiatry area. We have ensured the dissemination of the anonymous headspace offer. We have ensured a strengthened counselling capacity at Studentervisningen, expanded the free psychology treatment, so it now applies to the 18-21-year-olds, and also made a significant investment in strengthening PPR. As a government, we are concerned about the potential of PPR cooperation, which often has a large and important interface with children and young people as well as their families, but also with the professionals involved across entities and sectors. At the same time, PPR is present throughout the country, and there is today a variation in PPR's tasks and organisation across the country. That is why we also need to look at how we can make better use of PPR, and we also put that into joint wage-pool negotiations 120 million. kr. to, including to strengthen the PPR cooperation. If we also look at the rate pool agreement for 2018-2021, we can see that we set aside 400 million. kr. in the psychiatry area with a special focus on early interventions for children and young people. Most of the funds are 215 million. kr., was set aside for an advanced regional function throughout the country, which should strengthen the regions' cooperation with the municipalities, including PPR and the other interventions outside the hospitals • because we need to be better at preventing and gripping children and young people in the past, i.e. before we see the problems grow big. So it's about putting in earlier, and it's also about having the courage to invest in our children and young people, including those children and young people who don't thrive very well. And I also know that my two colleagues will follow up further, in other words with what they have of initiatives in their areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184034	Thank you. In order to clarify the rules, it is the case that the ministers are on twice: now, and then, when we have had the rapporteur's debate, they have the opportunity again. Firstly, the rapporteurs have one brief comment, but only the rapporteurs. In the next round, when the ministers are up, everyone, wherever you sit in the Chamber, has the opportunity to make the usual two brief comments to the ministers when they are on the second occasion. It is more because we have acquired some major changes to the question debate, and that is why it is very good to know when you have the chance to come up with it. There are currently four who have asked for a brief comment on this minister, namely Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Mrs Pernille Schnoor and Mrs Trine Torp. The first is Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184131	I think we're going to use surnames here. I feel like just grabbing some stuff like that. It is true that we lack knowledge as to why children are miserable. I agree entirely with that, but there are also some areas where we know that they are miserable. When, for example, half of the municipalities do not have an effort in relation to children who have anxiety and when three-quarters of the municipalities do not have a special effort in relation to children who have delayed after sexual abuse and when it is so that it is only 40%. If the municipalities themselves consider that they are complying with the recommendations on prevention in relation to mental health, then it can be said that in areas where we actually know what it is going to be, there is just a few steps to be taken. And that's what makes me think that all alarm bells should jam. That is why I have to ask the Minister for Health: if we now translate some of this into some of the areas we have a little better control of, what would actually happen if we were in the situation that only 40%. of the hospitals reported that they lived up to the cancer packets? So what would you do with the hospitals that just said: there may be some recommendations, but we do not live up to them. What would be the consequence of this for hospitals? For my experience is that if only it is social problems and if only it is vulnerable children, then don't worry about the fact that so few of the municipalities are fulfilling the obligations they have. And I just don't understand that. It is not, in fact, because I believe that there is someone who necessarily has evil will or something that I simply do not understand. That is why I think we should start by trying to translate it into what would actually happen if it were in the field of cancer that it was only 40% who reported that they complied with the recommendations that are there. What would the Minister of Health do in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184324	Thank you for the question. When the rapporteur asks that question, the great opposition we face from the Social Democrats to the government's health reform can be very much wondered. For the government's health reform is precisely in the process of introducing binding standards in the field of health care for the municipalities, where there are no binding standards today, and where it can be said that it is the municipal self-government that decides, as it were. This is because we want to have a clear framework for action for children and young people in the municipalities too, when we look at some of the offers, also anchored in the 21 health communities in terms of getting stronger cooperation between what is happening in the regional psychiatry, what is happening in the municipality and what is happening in our own doctor, because we also need to take action in the past. There are far too many children and young people who can see that school absenteeism and dissatisfaction are allowed to grow up without receiving the help they need. And in far too many cases, it is only when regional psychiatry takes over. This is one of the things we need to be better at preventing, including in the 21 health communities across psychiatry, the municipality and our own doctor, so that we catch some of these children and young people better, but at the same time we also make binding professional demands on health in the municipalities' offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184439	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. And I forgot to say that one brief remark is one minute and that the answer is one minute. But it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184440	You don't have to change the rules of the Folketing. That's bad, because then some of us can't figure it out at all. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on early intervention, that is, where is the midwife and health care provider in that game? I would like to hear the Minister's comments on that. And then there is an increase in the number of young people who have eating disorders, who are self-harming and who are suicidal. Those are some violent things. Does the Minister have any thoughts as to why it is precisely the violent things that are coming up so much now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184524-2	Thank you for the question. We have together, the Danish People's Party and the government, set aside money for what we call the 1,000-day programme, that is to say to ensure that all children and young people have a good start in life, as part of the financial law we have created, where we have just stressed the importance of strengthening the role of healthcare professionals in relation to children and young people who grow up in vulnerable homes. Because we know that it is crucial what a start to life is to be made, also in relation to one's ability to associate with other people afterwards and to build up some of the social competences and competences that you must carry with you for the rest of your life at all. That is why early action is extremely important, and I am sure the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has also stressed this in the past. Like the rapporteur, I am very concerned about the increase we see in the number of not least girls, but unfortunately also boys with eating disorders and also with self-harming behaviour. We have, of course, taken the initiative jointly and with pool money to ensure that the Danish Health Authority has made programme programmes in relation to how to intervene much earlier, but also better to ensure that some systematic courses of treatment are carried out in these areas. We have also jointly allocated more money to treatment capacity in the eating disorder area, and together with the Danish People's Party we have allocated money to the area of overeating as well. Precisely because we have to note that additional resources are also needed if we are to help the increasing number of children and young people with eating disorders and self-harming behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184646	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184647	Thank you to the Minister for a good speech. I am very much in agreement with the Minister in his analysis of the problems we have and what it takes, for example. positive meaningful communities. Children and young people may miss them. But I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister recognises that there are some structures in society that are involved in relation to this growing distrust. VIVE mentions e.g. in a report they published in December 2018 that there is decreasing well-being at school. So what is the Minister's concrete proposal? Now we heard the previous rapporteur mention health care professionals. What concrete proposals can the Minister make in connection with, for example: kids in school?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184746-2	Thank you for the question. Yes, structure plays a role. If you look at the proposal for adoption put forward by the three government parties and the Danish People's Party, there will be, for example: It also emphasized the role of the family, i.e. the stability that is related to it. There are structures, whether they are the close family structures or those of the school. Is one going to a school where one thrives; is there attention to fighting bullying so that as a child one does not feel isolated and rude in the social context but is part of; is one part of a meaningful community? Those things have a role to play. Structure also plays a role, in relation to whether there is a structure that grabs children and young people, if you mistrust mentally and need a professional offer, be it psychological help, be it psychotherapy, be it other offers in relation to also being able to get professional help with some of the problems that you can go through as a child and young person. There I think that the structure of the PPR system, which we also jointly agreed to strengthen as part of the rate pool, is also a very good structure to build on, because it is a structure that is in all municipalities, and we should therefore look at how we can also strengthen it further so that we can launch offers in the past. Because we can see that there is a great difference in how well the structure of the PPR works in different municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184908	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184910	I took note of the fact that the Minister had just sent out a svada as to why it had not been supported in getting a knowledge base in this area and a broader study of what this misfortune is due to. And that is not actually quite fair, because the Minister also knows very well that in the pool negotiations it was a question of the money going up, and one of the things that was given priority in relation to the government's proposal was the PPR. What I just want to say is that, if we are to give rice, we must also pay tribute to the part of what was negotiated in the agreement. There is nothing to prevent the government from obtaining that knowledge itself. Now, after all, the rate pool has been abolished, and does this mean that the government does not give priority to getting that knowledge base?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219184958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185000	Thank you for your comments. I think that I have highlighted a large number of the initiatives we have taken together, but I must also note that the government considers that there is a lack of knowledge. That is what we pointed out as part of the presentation for the exchange-rate pool negotiations in the autumn. We felt that we should jointly take responsibility for also discovering further knowledge about some of the causes, because we and I think it was the rapporteur for the questioners who started by saying it should be careful that we are not only discussing the symptoms and thus not coming into the underlying causes. I think that each of us has our different views on what it is that plays the most important role. In other words, I can also see in professional organizations that it is pointed out that it is a lack of structure, a lack of sleep that plays a role. I can find other places where it's about sexualization, body culture, social media. I think we just need to get back together behind some of the reasons for getting some more knowledge in this area as well. That is what I said at the outset, and I really do not think there is any reason to be close. But you must feel affected in relation to it. However, that was one of the priorities of the wage-pool negotiations. I just want to point out that I think this is a good debate to see whether agreement could not be reached in this area, which unfortunately did not succeed in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185115	Then we'll have a Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185120	Thank you. It's an exclusive company you've come into here. I would actually like to address some of the points in the reply given by the Minister to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. It is true that there are many factors that affect distrust, but one of the areas in which we can at least see that it lags out in the municipalities is in the field of preventive action when it comes to preventing anxiety when it comes to preventing self-harm and eating disorders. The Minister says that the adoption of the health reform introduces binding professional requirements, and I believe that it is not the binding professional requirements that are lacking. What is lacking is the resources to carry out the task in the municipalities, because we see in the municipal landscape that there are some municipalities that do well in one area while it lags behind in other areas. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is of the opinion that it is simply a lack of will on the part of the municipalities that does not carry out the task of preventive action in the municipalities in those areas, or whether the Minister agrees that it is due to a lack of resources and economy that this task is not carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185231	I am of the opinion that there are various reasons behind this. My point about highlighting the health communities is also to say that in some areas we do not need 98 different models. We also need a higher degree of coordination across psychiatry, which is the regional psychiatry, what is happening in the municipalities and what is happening in our own doctor. For what we can see today and I certainly experience when I talk to families of children who have mental illness is that the family feels for a long time that they cannot really get in touch with the municipality and that the municipality says: Well is it not the region's responsibility? The region then says: No, there isn't bad enough • understand me • that it is the region's responsibility, it is the municipality's responsibility. There is therefore a need to bring the parties together on a table in relation to thinking about preventive measures in the field of psychiatry much better than is done today. Similarly, there is a need to ensure that some of the treatment services • that is what we are proposing with the health reform • for anxiety and depression are anchored out in the near health care so that they are not only anchored in the treatment psychiatric system, because there are a great many of the children and young people we are talking about here who need an early offer that is also in their vicinity so that they can keep in touch with everyday life; that is for example. to strengthen both children and young psychiatrists as well as private practitioners in relation to using their skills and capabilities, which is what we will be able to do with the health reform. I think that is an important part of being able to catch more children and young people in the past, and before the problems grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185356	Thank you to the Minister for Health in this round, and welcome to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219185405	Thank you for the floor and thank you for calling today's debate on a very, very important issue. So I've been looking forward to it all day. After all, the mental well-being of children and young people is crucial to their having a good childhood, and it is also essential that they have a good child life and youth life and thus also a good starting point for an independent adult life. An analysis of mentally vulnerable young people in the latest social policy report showed that three out of four young people without jobs and training in the mid-20s have been in contact with the social or psychiatric system during their upbringing. And, as the Minister for Health also mentioned, we do not know the precise reasons behind the increase in the psychic dissatisfaction of young people. One must only be sorry, like the Minister for Health, to say that there was no support among the stake pool parties in the negotiations this autumn to allocate funds to a number of knowledge projects on, among other things. These reasons so we could have gotten some more knowledge. And that really surprises me, because, as I remember earlier consultations on this subject, among other things, have. The Social Democrats advocated that we should have some more knowledge of why we see this increase in mental dissatisfaction before we can make a targeted effort to reverse the trend. But we know from the research that, for example, we are told that we are going to have to do something about it. If you have grown up in a home with abuse or social problems, it is also extremely important for me that we give children a very good start to life and that we start early when the problems arise. The early effort is supported, firstly, by the rules of the Service Act, where the municipalities have a general obligation to pay attention to and initiate support for any child or young person who needs support. At the same time, municipalities are obliged to ensure that the necessary offers are available. The support which the municipalities are obliged to provide in the social field does not depend on diagnoses, but needs to be given regardless of the cause of the problems and the aid must be adapted to the needs of the individual. Next, as Minister for Children and Social Affairs, I have had a special focus on initiatives that strengthen the very early years of children's lives so that they become robust. It is about protecting the good child life, where there is room to be a child without carrying with them the concerns of adults. That is why I am also pleased that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, set up 1 billion. kr. to the first 1,000 days of a child's life. The first 1,000 days mean a lot to me. The funds must include: go to strengthen educational efforts towards vulnerable children, ensure more educators and educational assistants for children growing up in vulnerable residential areas, support parents' role in the home and, of course, ensure more healthcare visits. In my own area, we also know that, for example, the divorce of parents can create mental vulnerability in children and young people, not least those children in whom the level of conflict between parents is very high and where there may be other risk factors at stake that could lead to poor welfare for the child. That is why I am also very proud that last year we managed to agree with all of the parties in the Danish Parliament on a new divorce system where consideration for the child is at the centre. We establish a special Children's Unit to protect the child in the process, and at the same time the new system focuses on coordinating with the municipality so that you get all the way around. In addition, it is a question of providing municipalities with knowledge about the right knowledge-based methods and interventions that are evidence of preventing mental dissatisfaction. And this must ultimately help to ensure that social efforts make a real difference, so that children and young people who are in mental distress have enhanced opportunities for personal development and health and thus ultimately also an independent adult life. Therefore, we must support that the municipalities make the right efforts at the right time. That is to say, we enable the municipalities to identify the children and young people who are miserable so that they get an effort to meet the needs. This was also the reason why the government of the newly created development and investment programme in the children's field had planned to allocate just under 60 million from 2019. DKK 59,2 million kr. to be very specific, for the development and testing of active interventions for precisely, ladies and gentlemen, mentally vulnerable children and young people • 59.2 million. kr.! These were the means which should be used for both screening, maturation and testing of social efforts and the dissemination of the efforts that prove effective. I just have to say that there was no support for prioritising that agenda; there was no support for prioritising the 59.2 million. kr. However, I would like to say that we have taken some important steps together, and I appreciate that, and so thank you all very much. This was because we set aside just under 184 million with the 2017 rate pool. kr. to initiatives to strengthen the early and preventive action in the PPR, where the aim is precisely to strengthen efforts towards vulnerable children and young people, so that fewer people have problems and thus need either medication or reference to the psychiatric system. As the Minister for Health also pointed out, we have the over 120 million. kr. in the 2019 Rate Pool, continue to focus on how PPR can play an even more central role in preventive action in relation to mental dissatisfaction. I expect a lot of that. Finally, the government has also had a major focus on creating several preventive and also easily accessible offers for young people with mental difficulties, and thus in the autumn 60 million were allocated. kr. In this way, young people will be able to get help before the problems grow far too incalculable. And if the social rapporteurs do not remember it today, it is because that debate was over in the Ministry of Health. However, this means that parents of mentally vulnerable young people must also be able to receive support and also be able to obtain advice so that they are dressed to be able to cope with the mental difficulties of the young person. In addition, the offers must provide coherence for the young person, so that the young person can be referred to other relevant offers and also to other actors in the municipality, psychiatry, the practice sector, youth education, civil society etc. To sum up, I would like to say that the government has launched a series of preventive initiatives for mentally vulnerable children and young people and their families, although I would have liked there to have been support among the gamblers in autumn's negotiations for even more of the government's proposals on mental maltreatment. But it is still my belief that, among other things, we are. The financial law agreement for 1 billion. kr. for the first 1,000 days of vulnerable children and also the initiatives of the government's psychiatry action plan can provide children and young people with help that extends far into adult life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190105	Thank you very much, Minister. There is now the possibility of a brief comment from the general rapporteurs. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190113	I might as well reveal what I am going to ask the Minister for Education too, otherwise I will not be able to ask what I want to ask the Minister for Social Affairs. When I asked the Minister for Health: what actually happens if it is only 40%. of the hospitals that live up to the cancer package? I would like to ask the Minister for Education what would actually happen if it were only 40%. of the schools which taught in Danish. What is my problem in coming up with a social issue of the same nature is that there is nothing so firm in the social field that it would be obvious to everyone that action would be taken immediately if the figures were so poor. That is at the heart of the problem when we discuss vulnerable children, in other words, that there is nothing so tangible in the social field, and I believe that, in fact, social democracy is the whole story of an area and therefore also of why generation after generation in our society is allowed to live under the conditions that very many children do. I would like to address that part of the distrust of the Minister for Social Affairs, which is about sexual abuse, about parents with mental illness and, therefore, difficulties in caring for the child's best interests, violence in relation to children, digital education and abuse. I'm being stopped by the President now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190223	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190225	I was a little alarmed because I had simply not seen a new President coming. I'm sorry. It's okay). Okay, now I'm just trying to think that it's no longer one of the Enhedslisten who sits in the chair. After all, it is a strange question to ask something about children and young people's mental dissatisfaction, and I understand why the question put to the Minister for Health is not asked why the municipalities do not all go in and make good offers for children and young people with anxiety. We had exactly the offer for children and young people with anxiety in the 59.2 million. kr., such as: Social democracy rejected. I just have to say that, as an annual follow-up, we have the ten objectives of social mobility, and it just gets so fresh in my world when you take a big debate that is staged to deal with children and young people's mental dissatisfaction, and then suddenly it comes to not being able to follow developments in the social field. I would just recommend reading the social policy statement. Here you will be able to follow objectives, how things are going in selected areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190339	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190343	For the Danish People's Party, the family is at the heart and centre of everything, and when I say the family, I mean father, mother and children and not all sorts of strange family structures. This is how we feel in the Danish People's Party. What is important to us for a child is a framework, and it is calm, and it is structure. It's a familiar everyday life, and that's why we were a little happy when the minister put this upbringing debate in the lake, and unfortunately it just kind of floated out somehow. I am well aware that we cannot legislate on how to raise your children, but part of the problem, as I see it, is of course this with weak parents who cannot find a way of saying "no', who believe that they should involve their children when they are 2 years old, in what food they are going to have tonight, etc. etc. So I would like the Minister to put a few words on this issue of the education debate and what we really need to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190439	There are, in fact, several proposals of what the debate on education was about, which has been included in the 1,000-day programme. One of the things that I thought was really fine and that was said very clearly in the debate on education is that children must become someone before they come into existence. So before you start discussing what the child wants to be, when it gets big, it has to have this core, and it has to have this robustness, and you have to make sure that that child obviously develops in a really, really good way. I thought that was one of the finest things they came with. This is, in fact, one of the things our Majesty mentioned in her New Year's speech, and in this way it is also one of the things that has been included in the 1,000-day programme, where we want to support and help parents in their parental role.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190531	We thank the Minister and move on to the next minister, the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219190546	Thank you. Thank you very much for calling this question debate. We cannot debate something that is more important in this circle: the good life of children. In my speech, I will concentrate on two things: firstly, the importance of distinguishing between serious failure and disease and what can be called trip threads in life, and secondly, what factors are common or absolutely crucial to good child life? First, when I was young, I worked in psychiatry. I took shifts in psychiatric nursing homes with both young and elderly citizens. I worked in psychiatric counselling, where I was employed with the aim of focusing on young users. This does not make me an expert, but I did get an insight into how everyday life can be for citizens with heavy psychiatric diagnoses, and it is short and well difficult. In addition to fighting the disease, many of the young people I met experienced both loneliness and social isolation, shame, side effects of medicine, difficulties in carrying out an education and the existential pitfall that can open up to a young person when he or she finds that a normal family life with a spouse and children is a future that can only be perceived as a distant hope. That made a huge impression on me back then. Although I did my best, it was often difficult to reach out across the horror, insecurity and grief and reach the human being who sat before me. Today we are debating child distrust, and this is a very important issue. It is equally important to make it clear that we must not sicken the difficulties and barriers that may befall us in life, which is not disease, because disease is a difficult place to be in. That is why I am also pleased that we in the government are making a special effort in the field of psychiatry. My colleagues Ellen Trane Nørby and Mai Mercado have explained this. It is incredibly important that we provide psychiatric patients with good and dignified treatment and that we always open the door to improvement, to life mastering and also to health reports. Psychiatric diseases do not need to be a life sentence. There must be a plan leading towards a better life. But back to distrust: Although this is not a real disease, we can take better care of children and young people who experience loneliness, insecurity or despair. However, as I said, it is important to distinguish. For while illness requires treatment, distrust requires us to change the general framework for child life and improve it. If we look at children's life today, the material framework has never been better. Parents also have a lot of time for their children historically, but yet there are children and young people who are fearful, anxious and sad. Therefore, we should ask ourselves: What is important for good children's life? The answer is relatively simple: love, presence, rules, frameworks, direction, meaning. In short, I believe that lack of adult responsibility is the main cause of distrust. Children today are in a situation where an incredible amount of choice is left to them. The adults sometimes retreat and, in the best sense, place responsibility on the children's shoulders. Children can meet with questions such as: Who do you want to live with, Mom or Dad? How do you plan on getting better at math? What are we gonna eat for dinner? What do you think happens when you refuse to wear your jacket, even if it's cold? How do you think we should stop the bullying taking place in class? What are we going to do about the climate crisis? How are you gonna invent something that can make a better world? You think you're a good buddy? What are we gonna do for Christmas? Do you see that the others can't work when you're making a noise like that? Do you think it's smart to be on social media when you should sleep? Children are overwhelmed with responsibility, they do not have the prerequisites to handle, and with questions they do not have the experience or knowledge enough to answer. At the same time, they meet with a shimmeringly responsible adult world. The adults are on their way, and they're busy with something else. Therefore, there is a desperate need to reinvent bourgeois virtues: education, rules, responsibility, direction, presence, values, history, communities. And with bourgeois virtues, I mean bourgeois, because it is primarily the bourgeois parties that give priority to these. So we need a cultural awakening where we, the adults, take more responsibility for the good children's life, where we undertake to set the framework, even if it is difficult, for example. Eating pride is hard to talk from up here when you discuss down there, if you can wait with it, then it is super • where we stay in marriage or divorce in a way where the needs of the child are at the center, where we create schools without violence and bullying, where adults take responsibility, where we insist on having through and present adults in school with few replacements, where we meet the students with honesty about their professional level, instead of leaving them to cryptic answers and uncertainty, that we manage to meet them with rules that give calm and meaning about presence in school and youth education, about mobiles and SoMe, that we make room for children's life and play and joy, camping, the theatre performances, a shorter school day, so children have room to be children. We must tell children and young people what we believe in, what is important, we must include them in cultural and meaningful community. I believe that the cause of distrust is primarily a lack of adult responsibility. I believe that the answer should come from the bourgeois side, because although red wings have good intentions, they are too often falling behind professional demands as a cause of distrust, and I think that is a completely wrong analysis. It is the responsibility of the bourgeois to restore the family, school, association and cultural community, which are important and necessary conditions for the good life of children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191201	There are a number of brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191203	I am simply speechless. Is the country's Minister of Education quite seriously standing on the country's finest platform and saying that the only decent parents are those who are bourgeois? It's pretty fucking crazy anyway. Sorry, I swear, of course you can't do that in the Assembly Hall. So I'm gonna have to stop that right away. Now I was told what I wanted to ask, so I'd better go through with it now, but I'm almost too speechless to do it. But perhaps the country's Minister of Education can also report on what would happen if only 40%. of the country's primary schools taught in Danish. It is just because I believe that, as a minister, you have a number of tools if it is the case that the country's municipalities do not comply with the legislation and guidelines. As far as social action is concerned, I can only say that we are talking about, for example, social action. Fear that it is half of the country's municipalities that do not live up to what they are going to do and 40%. of the country's municipalities state that they comply with the rules or with the recommendations on prevention. I am just surprised that this situation can exist and therefore I ask the Minister for Education: what would happen if only 40%? of the country's primary schools taught in Danish? What exactly would the Minister do with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191322	First of all, I would like to say that I have said that the only decent parents are bourgeois. Of course it's not like that, and I didn't say that either. I wouldn't dream of that. I have said that bourgeois virtues are needed, and left-wing and left-wing politicians are very much allowed to be spokesmen for bourgeois virtues. I think that is excellent, and there are some who do. But I am just saying that I believe that it will be the bourgeois parties that will take on the responsibility of restoring the framework of child life that makes you feel safe and secure as a child. Compared to this thing with the 40%. I am not sure that I fully understand the question. I think it may be directed at one of the other ministers. That's how I understand it, because otherwise it's gonna be a little hypothetical. It can be said that, although I am a liberal, I have also tightened up supervision both in free schools and in primary and secondary schools, because we cannot have institutions or schools that run completely in the fence. I can't do that. We have a duty to ensure that all the children who go to school also attend a school or a youth education that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191424	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191425	Thank you. It was an exciting speech, which was mostly about how to talk to your children as parents, and what kind of questions you have to ask them. I think the Minister skilfully failed to mention what can actually be done in the Minister's area of education, and I would like to ask the Minister about this very report from VIVE, which came out in December 2018. There they point out, among other things, that since 2009 there has been a decrease in the proportion, which seems to them that they really like to go to school, and there has been a decrease in the proportion, which estimates that they are doing well professionally. I could continue with the series of questions raised by the Minister and say: yes, it may well be that it is because there are too many choices left to the children and young people themselves. For example: They are entrusted with a responsibility in the 8th grade, where you might ask: What are you going to do when you have not been declared ready for training? This could, of course, be one of the questions the Minister forgot to include in his series of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191534	There were many of the issues I mentioned, which are also linked to school and education. In relation to the assessment of education, it is precisely the responsibility of adults to give children and young people a realistic picture of their opportunities and to help them where they want to go, but also to say to them, for example if we cannot reach the demands of youth education: how are we to help you further? We have a good answer to that. We have made a fugitive who can grab the young and give them a starting point to move on. So this is a very good example of where we have taken responsibility and said: there simply needs to be a better starting point for children and young people who cannot go directly into youth education. I can give other examples, but I don't have much time. But you can, for example. Priority should be given to culture in school, priority should be given to the free play rather than to the detachment of leisure areas, and responsibility for their own learning for young children can be downgraded. And now the red sign is blinking, but I can easily give many other examples where it is about adults taking responsibility, including at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191633	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191637	If there is something in a grey area, then it is how much of young people are suffering under social control, and fortunately we have had a great deal of focus on social control in particularly Muslim environments. But it exists in almost all religious environments, and it exists in different degrees, and it keeps popping up that among other things. The teachers in primary school don't know how to handle it. I am aware that you can go to some places and get help, but does the Minister think that teachers are good enough to mock and to help young people who are under social control?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191724	Some teachers are. But it is true that we can generally be better at spotting social control and helping children and young people who are exposed to it, no matter what religious minority they are members of. But we must also say, if we look at minorities, that there are thus some minorities who follow up social control with threats of violence, and that is something else. This is a different story from having a conservative framework around children and young people who can be bad enough, but social control and violence are really a toxic cocktail, and the children and young people who enter that zenit need special attention. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191801	Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191802	It's right to that series of questions that should be the opposite of adult responsibility. I have some doubts as to whether the Minister is actually opposed to listening to children. One could also interpret presence as the fact that one actually cares about children's perspective. One of the things we write into the legislation is that we need to be better at listening to children, and that sometimes requires some questions for them. So I could actually be quite in doubt: are all those questions the opposite of bourgeois virtues? Otherwise, at least I do not have a concrete idea of what kind of decisions the Minister thinks bourgeois parties should take in order to implement bourgeois virtues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219191852	These are some very broad questions to be answered in one minute. Of course you have to involve children. Of course you have to listen to them. This is also what lies in a Scandinavian and Danish child education. Where the difference lies is, where responsibility is passed on to children and young people so that they cannot deal with it, and there I simply think we have a huge unspoken problem. It is that we have reached a point where the bow is too tense for children and young people. A good example is responsibility for own learning. We do not distinguish between groups of children in primary school today and how old they are. This means that a first or second-class child may be asked to take a position on his own learning: How do you intend to reach from A to B to C? It is very difficult for a first, second or third class child to decide. So what I am saying is that we need to look more critically at what responsibility we place with the children. Is that fair? Is it reasonable to ask a 7th - grade child: How do you plan to resolve the climate crisis? Or should we just have a talk about the climate crisis and say: Don't worry! The adults will find a solution. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192000	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192002	Thank you. Nevertheless, the Minister managed to say one thing in his speech, with which I fully agreed, namely that children are being overwhelmed with responsibility. The Minister then mentioned a number of questions, but I think that there are also some other issues that concern children being overwhelmed with responsibility, for example. The fact that there are 64,500 children growing up in poverty, where they will inevitably have to take responsibility for the family economy, because they, for example, have to take responsibility for the family economy. can't attend birthdays, can't go to football. There are schools where there are children who are responsible for how the life of the class works because there is only one adult to 28 pupils in the class, including both children with behavioural problems and children with integration difficulties. There are day care institutions where there are adults who are alone with up to 20 children who are going to have fruit and toilet and have changed diapers. They also have a responsibility to make their daily lives work. When the Minister says that there is an adult responsibility, I suppose it is also about the structural problem that it is not just adults, but that there is actually a political responsibility for children to be overwhelmed with responsibility in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192112	I think I will stick to my own resort and let the other ministers answer for theirs. In relation to the responsibility of children at school, it is true that these are two good examples of integration and responsibility for the learning of others. There is also a line down between red and blue blocks here, because I do not believe that children are responsible for the integration of other children. They can't have that. Of course they haven't. It's the adults who have that responsibility. So there are big differences. Nor do I believe that a child can be responsible for another child's learning, and there are also some dividing lines here. For example: I think it can put very young children under pressure if they are put in a group work where they have to lift other children. It's not unusual at all. I also think that you should look at the child's age and see if it is okay to put Lise in the 3rd grade to do group work, where she is to some extent expected to take responsibility for another child's learning. Is that okay? I just think that we need to protect children much better. It is quite fine that we disagree, because that is what I think is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192218	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Education and then we move on to the debate and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks. First of all, the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192235	Thanks for the introductory rounds here. It's a little different from the one we're used to. You gotta take that with you. I therefore agree that children have too much responsibility for those who are miserable. I think it is very crazy that it should be made into something bourgeois, but we just have to take that as it is. It must be for the Minister of Education's own account. I think, in fact, that where the greatest distinction is in what I hear in our discussion about this and I am not quite sure whether the governing parties actually agree with each other, and it may be quite interesting to clarify the question is whether any of this is political. Is there any of the misfortunes that make anyone responsible for politics? The Minister of Education has said what many have been incredibly provoked by the fact that you cannot legislate on whether there is regularity around meals or whether dinner and breakfast are being made or how the words now fell. I fully agree that it is not possible to legislate on this, and I also agree that it is important to have a level of regularity in everyday life. I think that where the waters are separated is actually somewhere else, because it is in the question of whether there is a part of what is about distrust, which is a political responsibility. There I have to say that, in the case of social democracy, that is just a clear yes. There is. After all, according to the Danish Health Authority, one in ten children goes home to a full parent... one in ten children! Every six children have experienced domestic violence in the last year. Then there's a little disagreement about how many people are being sexually assaulted. But I also believe that, in terms of numbers, if only we take the two large groups with the many who are exposed to full parents, and the many who are subjected to violence, then we have enough to say that here there is a group of children, about whom saying that it is just some of that, it is a political responsibility to deal with? Yes, in the book of the Social Democratic Party it is so that when parents fail to care for their children, the children are a group that we, as a community and a community, have a responsibility to promise and protect, and where we have a responsibility to look after their best interests and, in most cases, to help the family recover, thus helping them to overcome abuse so that they can take care of their children, to help them through the problems that may be in the family that make them not handle their children properly. We should not do this for parents' sake, but because we believe that children should be protected in the situation where parents are unable to properly care for their interests. It is not always the case that this ultimately means that they cannot do anything at all. In most cases, it will be an effort to correct a family. However, in terms of social democratic spectacles, a very large part of the displeasure agenda is about our children, of course about parents, with whom we cannot just take up a discussion like that, and then things are over like a finger-tips. So there is also a political responsibility. It is a political responsibility when we do national tests in the small classes. It is a political responsibility. We can choose to continue to have that, or we can choose to say that we may not seem to have done the right thing. We tend mostly to the end of Social Democracy. It is a political responsibility when a very small part of the treatment that is going on is family treatment in the area of alcohol. It is a political responsibility when, to a very small extent, we use the possibility of family housing, where we go in and give the family massive support so that it can take care of itself and learn how to use the tools needed to make the family work. It is a political responsibility to go in and mitigate the hard divorces. I think we have done so, and I would like to sign for it in the broad agreement we have made on the divorce system. It is, of course, a political responsibility whether one chooses to leave it primarily based on lawyers and the legal relationship between two adults, or one chooses to leave it based on the child, who primarily needs a child-sacrificing psychologist and some who can advise parents on how best to care for their children in the situation in which they are in a divorce they cannot find their own way of dealing with. It is a political responsibility. So for me, there's a very long way to go. And when, as I have done, I ask every minister about these things and about what would happen if we didn't do it in other areas, it's actually because there are things that are shell tasks, and there are things that are can't tasks for the municipalities, and in the social field everything is just can't, can't and can't: If you feel like it, you can do something, and if you don't do it and don't feel like it, then fortunately no one is doing anything about it anyway. And that's why it's always the municipalities' fault. I just can't have that shift of responsibility. I just can't have it. I have been rapporteur in almost all areas of parliament, and this is a sovereign area where you are most laissez-faire. So if I were to come in with bourgeois virtues, if that's what the Minister of Education calls it, I'd like a slightly more square upbringing in terms of how to tackle the social area. It's laissez faire, it's laissez faire, and it's laissez faire. These are not very many guidelines, and there is no hammer that will fall if you do not do things in the way it is said from the central point of view. I simply do not think we can be familiar with this. And by that I do not mean that one can be familiar with just standing around and talking about the fact that there is a problem of upbringing. I simply do not think that is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192743	Was there a proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192748	Yes, there is a proposal for adoption, and it comes here and is on behalf of Enhedslisten, SF, Alternativet, Radical Left and Social Democratic Party: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament notes that for many children and young people there is mental distrust. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to ensure that the municipalities comply with their obligations regarding the treatment of young people with mental and social problems. The Danish Parliament invites the Government to convene the parties of the Danish Parliament for discussions with a view to carrying out concrete initiatives aimed at risk factors such as violence, sexual abuse and abuse as well as mental and social problems in the family, as well as promoting the well-being of children in day care institutions, primary and secondary education in the necessary cooperation with health care. Parliament calls on the government to review the education system and to make changes that promote the well-being, including the abolition of national tests in the smallest classes, and also to enter into negotiations on the development of a mental health system which prevents and treats mental disorders on an equal footing with physical diseases, as well as to reduce waiting lists for the treatment of mental and social problems such as violence, sexual abuse and alcohol abuse. • V 73).
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192853	This is then part of the further debate. We have a few brief comments to make, first from Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192901	Thank you. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for the speech. Sometimes it sounds like it's quite easy: we just have to screw on some screws, and then it's going to work like this forward-looking. I would like to ask a few questions about the rapporteur's saying that there are far too few places in the social field where it says that we should be able to make the rapporteur a little more specific. I mean, where is it supposed to be instead of "can"?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219192939	Well, it can just be a book so long that I can't read it in one minute. And that is not because I think that this is the way to oppose municipal autonomy in all areas. In fact, I think it is quite important that we have municipal autonomy, and I would also like to say that my experience is that 80%. In fact, the municipalities do their work very well 80%, and we should bear that in mind. It's just like when we're talking about disgrace. Most of the children are thriving, most of the municipalities are actually doing their job well. My experience is that there is an 80/20 rule. 80% does well, and what they 20%. As far as I am concerned, it is no wonder that many children fall through the safety net. And I would just like to say that, if we are going to do this, I would like to say that we could go in and make some pretty clear guidelines and say that if the municipalities live up to these points, that is what we have put forward in our fingers away reform, then they have a very high degree of freedom. If they don't, the state will take much more over than it is today. I would think that was appropriate in the area of information, just to be quite concrete and quite low-practical.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193040	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193041	Should I understand that in this way the Social Democratic Party will go in and simply punish the municipalities that are not doing well enough by simply tightening things up so that their degree of freedom is not so great that this is the way to actually punish them and then go in and control it by the state instead, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193112	That is an incredibly precise description, and I would say that it could also be taken one step further, and that is why I tried to lure the ministers onto the ice, in addition to the steppes, in relation to it. In other words, we have urged the ministers to use the tools that are available. These are tools that exist today, which means that, in the best of our knowledge, and we have agreed with many other parties on this issue, the municipalities could be dealt with much more seriously. It should be borne in mind that if the municipalities do not comply with the legislation, there are some options. I know that in the field of education, which I am also dealing with on a daily basis, we are used to the fact that the municipalities are just doing what the legislation says, but I should like to say that the social area is on another planet. And that means that, in terms of getting the municipalities to do something, we have been some people who have advocated that the opportunities that exist could also be used to provide daily tickets to council members. So there is a long way to go before we think that in this area the tools we can use are used in relation to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193159	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193200	Thanks for the speech. I'm just so curious about some things. This is about what I also asked before, namely that there is a decrease in the proportion of children who really like to go to school and that there is also a decrease in the proportion of children who think that they themselves are doing well professionally. I think that is extremely sad, and this may mean that, in the long term, too, distrust can develop because of it. So I am really just curious to hear what the Social Democrats have of proposals in relation to it. I am very pleased that this national test in schools is included in the proposal for adoption, but what about the qualification? I can also sign that in Copenhagen the mayor wants fewer grades, which I think is a very good initiative that has just been taken. So I was just curious to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193308	Exactly in relation to national tests, I believe that this is one of the areas where excessive responsibility is placed on children, in other words on adult responsibility. Our assessments of the performance of our children can be kept to ourselves until the children become a little bit bigger. So that is at least one of the areas where we think we can talk about distrust. So, children get worried, they can't even figure out what it is, that they are skilled or less skilled or where they are now professionally trained have consequences in the long run. And that means that it just causes an upset stomach that you are judged because you are simply too small to be able to put it into context. You do not have the amount of experience to assess: what is the consequence for my life of the outcome of the national test? So that is the concrete reason for it. So I would like to say about the character system and I've been intensely opposed to that part ever since we introduced it that it was a fine compromise and all sorts of other things, but how on earth can you have a character system where there are some who get less than 0? Come on, there are simply no people who should have it preached on their foreheads that they are dumber than 0. Well, it just doesn't work. There I think you could handle it a little more educationally, without doing anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193414	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193415	That's where I think we're pretty much on the same page. Now I've just learned here the last few days that in the City of Copenhagen it's proposed and I'm sure it's a S-mayor that you have to have fewer grades in school, because learning has turned into a competition rather than something with you as a person just getting some more knowledge and being able to handle some things out in society. So, speaking of the Prime Minister of the children, I would really like to hear what the Social Democratic proposals are to remove that competitive element at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193455	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193456	That's right. We have some incredibly good mayors in Copenhagen. But I would say that I think they should be allowed to experiment with that. I believe, in principle, that there is a very great difference between character, assessment, national testing and what else might be, in the smaller classes and talking about it in school. I mean, it's two different things. And I'm not one of those people who subscribes to the fact that we have to abolish the grade scale and that we have to drop the grade thing in elementary school. I think it is good to have the national tests abolished in the smallest classes, and I think it is good that you do what you do in the City of Copenhagen, so it is not a subjugation of it. I think it's good that you get experimented on how it works. But moving towards such a complete abolition of grades would seem to me to be going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193534	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193536	It would be very nice to hear: what does the Social Democratic Party intend to do in this area if one gets the power of government itself? And it would be just as nice to know: what did the Social Democrats do in this area when they last had government power?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193555	There are two things I would like to mention from the last period of government that I am most proud of. One is that we abolished the poverty benefits, that is to say we abolished the ceiling on cash benefits and thus structurally moved a lot of children somewhere with more money per month. I believe that it is simply a matter of the fact that if you do not have the economic concern and the stress it brings, you can devote a lot of effort to dealing with the other social problems. That is the one thing I want to say. The second point I would like to mention is the legislation that we had in place in the area of housing. It was actually under Karen Hækkerup, and I think it is one of the best legislation that has been made. We tightened up the notifications, so the municipalities must then I wish that there was also a minister who came after them. However, having legislation put in place precisely what happens when there is a concern for a child seems to me to be one of the good things. Did we get that far enough? No, we are talking about something where we have lagged behind throughout Denmark's disease history, so there are incredibly many steps still to be taken. I hope that we will make it before I retire, but that is the time perspective we have to have on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193705	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193708	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen says she wants to be Prime Minister of the children. It just doesn't add up in my head when you say you want to take out more children. It sounds as if it is the goal in itself that more children are forcibly removed. If there is a situation in which children are miserable, it is precisely when they are forcibly removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193729	I would like to make a prediction: in the course of the next year, the two of us will come to a very broad agreement in the Folketing on this matter. And I will just clear the first part of the way, because I do not think that we are very far apart: we do not want to bring more children; we would like to have more places. These are two quite different things in principle, because if you force someone, you do something against someone's will, but if you place someone, you give the opportunity to do relief or for example. to make more family arrangements so that an alcoholic mother can be in rehab but can stay with her child. It is just to say that I do not actually believe that we are so far away from each other, because I actually see that the Danish People's Party has the same desire as us, namely to protect the children. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193811	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193812	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on this with the question of shell. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil did not mention one example. We were told that you could write a whole book and that you could read a whole book and that you couldn't do that in one minute. But could the rapporteur just come with all the places where you want a shell, which you can say in one minute?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193838	Well, we can try. We would very much like to get rid of, for example. the waiting lists for the social offers. That is to say, we would like to have a twister enter it was some of what we did in connection with the rate pool where we say that if you e.g. If there's a delay in sexual assault, we're gonna go in and set a line. We would like a clear line there. Now we've dropped the money. We would also like to have a clear limit on how long to wait. I want to say that I have not been able to see anything... no, now I must not elaborate on it, because then I cannot say any more. So I'm just gonna bring somebody else over here instead. The same applies to alcohol abuse. I have just been to the TUBA this morning, and they tell us that 800 young people are on a waiting list who need help after they have grown up in a home with alcohol problems. My bid will be that it costs society many, many millions of kroner that we do not ensure that this treatment is given immediately. So there we also believe that there should be a "must" clause in relation to how long you can stand on a waiting list. It's putting health on an equal footing. That's why we make the comparison. We need to use some of the tools available in the field of health, including in the social field. Then we would like to go further down the notification trail. This means that clear standards are being put in place for how much we expect a municipality to inform on average. That's what I could do in one minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193948	Yeah, it was 1 minute. And then there's 1⁄2 minutes for Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219193953	Thank you. However, some efforts are being made in these areas. And we agree that some municipalities are not doing well enough. The rapporteur himself said that 80%. Doing well, and that 20%. Makes it bad. Why, then, lay down a set of rules on all those who do well, i.e. the 80%, rather than making a targeted effort against the 20%, which then does not do well enough and which could make better use of the stakes that we have already set in motion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194025	Now, you just asked for a list of the shell rules, so that's what I took there. Otherwise, it is actually exactly the principle that we put in place in our proposal, that is, our fingers away from the game, if you would like to read it out. It's been a little while since we brought it, so it's okay if you don't have it in fresh memory. But what it is all about is actually being able to give degrees of freedom, including degrees of freedom that do not exist today, to municipalities that meet certain standards, but then to lean more over the table than those that do not meet the standards. So some of what we're up to in our fingers away reform is actually exactly the fact that you can have differentiated tools in relation to how you take action against the municipalities. It's not the same as the shell rules. It's like another regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194106	I know that when you're engaged, it can be difficult with that thing with the "du" rules, etc., but that's true. We have one last brief comment and it is from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194114	Thank you. I understand from the rapporteur that the Social Democratic Party would like to have a fight with national tests and with the scale of character, and that one would like to have a less focus on grades. This can all make a great deal of sense, but I would really just like to ask the rapporteur in peace: what can we learn from the free schools that are free of exams and tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194141	I believe that much can be learned from this, and in fact it is one of the things I care about our system. I have an incredibly bad thing to say about so many children going to private and free schools, I would like to say. But if I have to say something positive about that, you can sometimes find the opportunity to challenge the primary school in its pedagogy. I would never add children myself, but there are others who will, and fortunately our society is so diverse, and that means that I believe that some of the lessons to be learned from the character-free schools that I have seen over the years have been the development of a better evaluation culture. I mean, more words are being said about what goes well and what goes wrong, the places where you do well. You might want that from primary school, but you can just suck it over. When I am against the complete abolition of grades, which may be advocated by others, it is because I also believe that being measured up to the figure that is ultimately measured up is a good idea just not in the smallest classes. So it is, of course, a question of differentiating teaching tools, but I think we can learn a lot from those who do experiments. I just don't want to put my own kids into this kind of experiment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194250	Mrs. Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194252	Now I did not ask the rapporteur's personal position, but of course it is always refreshing. I asked more about the position of the Social Democratic Party when the rapporteur is now standing here and advocating a different model of evaluation. But could the rapporteur be a little more specific about that? Now I hear something about evaluation, but where is it quite concrete that we can learn some of the exam- and test-free free schools if we are to work towards the model that we think is optimal, seen with the Social Democratic spectacles?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194326	I have such a feeling that Mrs Jane Heitmann has mixed what I have said with what the alternative rapporteur has said. It sounds to me as if the rapporteur of the Left should have got an understanding that I and the Social Democrats believe that there should be no tests and exams and grades. But I do not know whether this is the misunderstanding that has arisen. I do not believe, and we do not believe, that there should be zero-grade schools. This does not mean that you cannot have free schools that do such things, but primary school should not be character-free and should not be test-free. We just don't want national tests in the smallest classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194406	We thank Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. There are no more brief comments, and then we proceed in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219194419	Children's Terms have shouted guardly because they are experiencing an increasing number of inquiries from children and young people who are mentally ill, and I suppose that is why we are standing here today. What this displeasure is then due to can be a lot of things, and I imagine we could stand here all night, if we were to talk about all these things, so I just put a few words on what we in the Danish People's Party have done about this. The world of children and young people is a world in which social media is incredibly big, and it is in both good and bad, because what does it do to a young girl when she constantly sees pictures on Instagram of other incredibly beautiful young girls and she can see that she doesn't look like that? That's what she's mirroring herself in, instead of looking at her girlfriend, who might be overweight, maybe have some pimples or something. Of course, it gives really low self-esteem to try to live up to the artificial reality of social media. It is quite unattainable, and therefore an important learning for all of us is that one learns to compare oneself and one's own progress with oneself and not with others. Then we have become aware that there is spreading a somewhat unfortunate culture, namely that when young mothers are sitting and breast-feeding their children, they are actually sitting and looking at their phones instead of having eye contact with the baby. I think all the rapporteurs here are well aware of the importance of having this interaction between mother and infant, and of having that eye contact. It may seem to be a small trifle, but I think it is important to have it mentioned here, because at least we see it as a problem that is perhaps increasing. Then there's ourselves as adults. What kind of picture are we running for our kids? When the little tits e.g. is out playing football and one team scores five goals, while the other team scores three goals, then we all give them a medal and say they've all won. But the kids know they haven't all won, because they can count, and they can see that one team got more goals than their own, so they haven't won. Somehow we say to our children: you're really a little stupid, because you don't understand this, because now we're saying that you've won, and that's how it is. This does not teach children how to cope with minor failures or teach them the sense of victory that they can have, and that is what can do for them later in life, for example. can't figure out how to tackle a national test over in primary school when they are measured, because they haven't learned the emotions as a child because we as adults have helped to neglect them. So we think that is a major problem. Then there's this whole thing about being surrounded as a child by insecure adults. We have touched on both the Minister for Education and all these questions that are being asked. For us, in the Danish People's Party, it is actually a misunderstanding of democracy and involvement, because it is of course age-related. What you can do with a 3-year-old isn't the same as what you do with a 10-year-old. There is, of course, a big difference between what you can talk to your children, and it is clear that three-year-olds do not have to decide what to have for dinner, but a 10-year-old can decide it, because they can be aware of some health and so on. etc. In any case, we believe that there is a little misunderstanding about how much we really need to talk to our children. The smaller the children, the more they need structure and a firm framework and not all sorts of round table pedagogics. As I said before, this is about the traditional family, where it is father, mother and children, and not strange constructions with all sorts of strange family patterns, and then it is also about divorce families. You can't get a divorce without it hitting the kids. It's just inevitable. Good divorces also affect children, it makes them feel guilty, they feel guilty. And, of course, we have now together created a new and hopefully very good divorce system, but the children will still feel guilty, and so there can be a great degree of distrust precisely in relation to it. Then there's this over time we have together. What is the time that parents spend with their children? I have experienced a lot as a day care provider that parents have the attitude that something must happen all the time, that we have to activate our children all the time, then we have to go to Legoland, then we have to go to the zoo, then we have to go to Fårup Sommerland etc. etc. Therefore, it is also very boring when you see that there are children who do not take holidays because their parents think that the children are better off in the day care institution, because they are activated there. It is simply awful that you can think like that, and it is really a pity for the parents that they cannot just be with their children and enjoy themselves. It's kind of what we've been doing with thoughts. I would like to make the following points on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an increasing number of children and young people are experiencing mental distress. The Danish Parliament is aware that a good child life with reduced risk of mental ill health requires a safe environment with present adults both in the family and in school, and that there is time for leisure activities in meaningful communities. The Folketing urges the government to ensure that there is a focus on improving efforts for children and young people with psychological challenges. A total of 2.1 billion has been committed. kr. with the psychiatry treatment plan, of which 120 million. kr. to PPR, 60 million. kr. for preventive interventions for mentally vulnerable young people and 400 million. kr. with the rate pool 2018-2021 for the psychiatry area with a strong focus on children and young people. There is a need to closely monitor the impact of the interventions undertaken on the funds and disseminate the good experiences so as to significantly reduce the number of children and young people with mental distress and where focus on prevention should play an important role. • V 74).
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195005	The proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Then there is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195009	As I heard the rapporteur's speech, it was a long speech about attitudes towards child rearing and a criticism of parents who do not raise their children or care for them in the way that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would like. Now this is a Parliament, and this is where we make laws and set a framework for families' lives. Where is the political responsibility in relation to the distrust of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195045	But the rapporteur actually heard it was meant to be a bit like a criticism. As we see it, we have simply become too relaxed; we have become afraid of setting limits for children. And it may not be political, but we have to say it when that is what we think there is the problem. Then, as opinion-formers, we must start a debate, and out of that there may be, perhaps, no legislation. However, the rapporteur is quite right in saying that this was an opinion speech, it was not a political speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195109	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195111	Should I understand that, as a rounding-off of the debate, it would be fine to send out an appeal to the parents that they should raise their children and take care of them in a different way, and thus that the Danish People's Party does not believe that it is a political responsibility to do something about the psychic distrust?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195132	Of course it is a political responsibility to do something about the psychic distrust, and I also read about all the funds that have been set aside, because these are political priorities where money has been set aside, among other things. preventive action. And that's really nice. But that does not change the fact that we have to say what we consider to be the problem. But we cannot legislate on how to raise our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195154	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195156	Thank you. Well, sometimes you might wish you had half an hour's speaking time, wouldn't you? And that is why it is fair and square, if you would like to take it, what can you say, an attitude in relation to upbringing, which I also think is extremely important. But I would also like to follow up on that clue about political responsibility. Now we have done these things in the divorce area, and it is very good to do so, but what does the Danish People's Party think about the late follow-up after sexual abuse, in relation to violence and in relation to alcohol abuse in the homes? So, what does the Danish People's Party think about how we get on with some of the things where you can say that there are all kinds of things we don't know about why it is that children are miserable. It may well have to do with the upbringing that I think can be a part of it. But there are also some areas where we know very well that if these factors are present, the children are definitely not well. What has the Danish People's Party done about thoughts and reflections in relation to distrust in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195252	In other words, in relation to the late follow-up to sexual abuse, we simply do not believe that we are good enough. In fact, we also believe that there is a lack of effort in the municipalities, and we would very much like to take part in this. In relation to violence, we are just dealing with psychological violence being punishable, and we think that is a very positive thing, of course, just not being ashamed of it, and it is a really difficult balancing act. When is the psychological violence? When, for example, is it? Raising, etc. etc.? So we have to look each other in the eye and talk about it. After all, abuse is an eternal problem, and I do not really think we will ever get to grips with it, no matter how much we legislate from in here, but we would very much like to take part in looking at it still as usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195332	I think it sounds very good both in relation to the part about sexual abuse, where we have also done some things together, and also in relation to psychological violence. But if we are now talking about alcohol abuse, I would like to ask 'cause I think that the whole thing about getting rid of it is a pretty big target' about the Danish People's Party, for example. will help to reduce waiting lists for children who have become young and adults and who suffer because of the things they carry with them in their luggage. That's one thing. Secondly, what does the rapporteur think we can do about physical violence?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195413	It's fun to be asked that. In fact, I have been with our financial rapporteur to get him to put money on the budget bill for TUBA. When I failed, I went home to my own municipality and tried to get it to do so. It then succeeded in agreeing that we should look at the area, but in a broader perspective. This is actually something we are very concerned about in the Danish People's Party. So please come to us if you want to do something in this area. In terms of violence, it's just so hard because there's also a police part in it. Violence must be reported, and the police must also demonstrate whether violence has taken place. In fact, I sometimes think that the problem is stranded there. I'm just not smart enough to know what the hell we're gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195453	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219195500	Thank you. In Denmark, unfortunately, we see an increasing number of young people who are faced with what we describe as suffering in life. These are young people who have lost faith in themselves, but they are also young people who suffer from alcohol abuse and drug abuse, but who, for that matter, are also struggling with eating disorders, depression and anxiety, and indeed I could go on. So I have to say that I think it is mad, and I think it goes without saying when between 20 and 22 per cent. of Danish girls between 15 and 19 years of age have done harm to themselves, that it is a cry for help and that something needs to be done. So who are these young people? It may actually be almost anyone, because we see that these problems both affect young people from socially vulnerable families, but that they also affect young people, whom we sometimes stamp as the 12-tal girls or the perfectionists. It may as well be resourceful young people that we might not have thought would risk falling off the edge of their lives. After all, we have some youth problems that can affect anyone, perhaps your neighbor's son or the boy from the local sports club or perhaps your own child. This is a little paradoxical, because we are also in a society where the young people, fortunately the vast majority of them, are doing very well, very well and are doing everything we really want them to do, so that they are taking a youth education course. Youth crime has never been as low as it is in these years, and a lot of young people eat healthier, drink less, etc. So there are actually a lot of positive things to say. So I guess we're all thinking, and I think we're doing that across the parties: what is the reason for the situation we're in? And there I have to say that one of the things I choose to take forward in my speech is the speed with which technology is evolving. We've seen social media take-off or what some young people call it, namely that they've got Fortnite fever and they spend really, very many hours on social media in front of the computer screen. And when I'm out talking to some of the young people about these things, it's actually they want to have some different and more present communities, and not just the communities that you can have behind a screen, but that don't make you look each other in the eye anyway. I would therefore like to say that some of what I think is important that we also address is the importance of having these binding communities, the good communities, where you are together physically and not only, you can say, are connected by a screen. Because it is the case that these different types of games and programs, on which you are also impressed as an adult, become almost dependent. We can each just look at ourselves. At least I have often thought about it when I, for example, think about it. sitting and waiting at the airport, or when I sit and wait by the doctor in the waiting room, or when I sit on the train, how many of us adults, who somehow have an addiction to our iPhone or iPad, forget to look at who is sitting next to us, or try to make contact with the person we are sitting opposite or next to? Unfortunately, studies also show that the very thing about empathy among young people is falling sharply. The thing about having control of your own feelings, but also looking the others in the eye and asking how they really feel, is one of the things that requires you to be physically present, that you are present, and yes, that you are part of some kind of community. Now it shouldn't sound like I think it's only the social media who are to blame for all of this, but I'm just saying that I think it might be some of the things that cause us to see an increase in dissatisfaction among children and young people. And then I have to say again that yes, there are many different reasons and that it is therefore important that we also take the debate here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200016	We thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no brief comments. Yes, there is just one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200027	Thank you. I'm quite fond of the speech, I'd like to say first. However, I am still surprised that what is left of the government parties is that it is about education and it is about social media. It is also a matter of priority when you have a speech that can only take five minutes. So recognition for that. But we are also very much thinking about some of the classic social problems and markers, where we know children are miserable, where there is alcohol abuse, where there is domestic violence, which are some of the more classic social issues. Does the Left also think that's where to look as one of the places? I recognise that there are some new challenges around social media, lack of presence, problems in the pattern of education, but there may also be some things where we could do better from in here than we are doing today, not necessarily tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, because it can be a long, cool move. But couldn't we do it a little better?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200131	Yeah, I think we definitely can. I think it would be wrong if we sat down here today and said: we have done everything we need to do. That was also the reason why I, together with the former Minister for Education and Research, Søren Pind, also chose to go to the media a while ago, shortly before Søren Pind stopped here in the Danish Parliament. I believe that we all have a responsibility to try to look inwards: are there things we have done, perhaps even wrong, which should also be corrected? Is there anything we can do even better? And yes, it is true that I was around social media and, of course, that with presence and social communities, the importance of communities, etc. That is what I was able to achieve in my speech, but I certainly think that there are other areas in which we, as country politicians, also have an obligation to look at whether there are things that should be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200224	Yes, yes, we all have a responsibility, but I think Parliament has a special responsibility, and that is where we in the Social Democratic Party want to go: that we take on the special responsibility. I think we do the same on some points, and we have done the same together on some points. But sometimes you get the wrong. The national tests in the small classes we would like to think about and discuss, simply because this test has proved to have the side effect that it creates a very high level of anxiety because the children are too small to understand what the consequences are. What reflections does the Left take on the distrust agenda? Then there may be all sorts of other considerations that make it possible to tip somewhere else anyway, but we must also be able to reflect on that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200310	I know that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil was not in the room when we negotiated adjustments to the primary school area, because there we were just about these things. There we have also given each other a handshake that is one of the things we need to look at. But I also think it is important, before making hasty decisions, that we should also examine what is of disadvantage and benefits, for example. in writing. - (DE) The Social Democrats, together with the other red parties, propose in their proposals for adoption here before we begin to say that we are removing the national tests in the small classes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200346	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200348	Thank you. I would just like to go further and say that I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur, together with the former Minister, Mr. Søren Pind, was out to focus on the fact that there are also structures in our education and training systems that help to create that distrust. That is how I remember what the rapporteur said. In this context, I would like the rapporteur to be a little more specific in relation to what structures they are and what they are that we can change, and perhaps also to say a little about what the Minister for Health said, in other words something about the need to give priority to some psychological assistance and some focus on the PPR, etc. in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200439	I have to say that I think that a great many of the things the government has just set in motion, including with other parties, are the right way to go. In other words, regardless of the fact that more funds have been allocated to the 1,000-day programme, so that we can make an earlier effort for the very small ones, or for that matter more money for the PPR, etc., I think that all the things that others, including the ministers, have said are really important. But having said that, I would also like to say that, while we are taking steps to reduce the damage, I can say that it is important to have a deeper digging, that is to say a deeper digging, in relation to whether or not there are things that in some way help to push the distrust. Well, there I am. to say that I cannot rule out that there may be some of the things that have been done over the past 10, 15, 20 years, which somehow help push things forward. That's what I meant in the statement I made with Søren Pind.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200540	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200542	Then it is obvious to ask whether the Left will take the initiative to take this spade deeper and find out what structures it is really in our educational systems and educational systems that cause distrust. So I would like to know whether the Left will give priority to finding out: what are some structures actually doing this? Because this is complex, but, as the rapporteur says, we have to dig deeper into this spade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200615	Yes, and now I have to stop using most of the speech to say that it would have been nice, therefore, that some more money had actually been spent on getting some more knowledge, some of what had been promoted in the context of the pool negotiations. Having said that, however, I think that, once again, in the agreement we have reached on the adjustment of the primary school sector, we have addressed part of what the red parties are also bringing forward today: can we have a closer look at how the national tests actually affect or, for that matter, are being applied? I think that is one of the things that it is important to tackle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200653	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200704	Thank you for that, President. No one can be surprised anymore. Report after report shows the same: Danish youths are more pressured than ever before. This is a problem that we have been talking about for a long time, but which still lacks political action. We have heard our Minister of Education say that it is the parents' fault, i.e. that Danish parents do not take responsibility for their children. We have heard a government party say that young people just have to tighten their buttocks and pull themselves together without whining and pity, and we have heard other parties claim that character requirements are actually good, especially for the socially vulnerable. Because if you have bad grades, you shouldn't be lured into high school in hopes of being able to change. But for this, there's no reason to find either the kids or their parents. This is about our system that pushes young people all the way down into the smallest school classes. Savings on educational institutions, defined average grades for high school, an ever-increasing average in higher education, national tests and, above all, the pressure to be perfect and meet the expectations of adults and schools are everyday life for young people. In Aalborg, the entire year of students in two schools had a significantly higher stress level than the population in Denmark. More than every other student scored as high on the stress scale as the most stressed fifth of the population. In 2014, 40% was spent. of 70,000 students surveyed in Danish upper secondary and hf classes were stressed every week. 20% was stressed every day. I don't know when the government realizes this isn't about just pulling itself together anymore. It is no longer about children and young people who are already exposed to pressure or are resourceless. It is about the children of all of us who, with the current education system, are at risk of being broken. These people's lives should be about community and youth life. Now all the focus will be on bottom lines and growth. Young people are not part of a culture of achievement, but a culture of perfection that risks making them ill. Individualization has gone too far, and our children and young people have been trying to shout us out without success for years. Mistrust among children and young people is a structural and political problem that we can deal with politically. It is not something that children, their parents or individual educational institutions can move alone. It is about taking responsibility and getting things right as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219200955	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219201014	Thank you. Psychiatric distrust among children and young people in the country is a very important and very serious issue. This is important because it is about young people who should be happy to have their whole life ahead of them with the many opportunities offered today but who, instead of being happy, are suffering from depression, anxiety or other mental disorders that mean that they are miserable, and that is serious because it is an increasing problem in our society. It is therefore clearly reassuring that all parties in the Folketing are concerned with the subject and are constantly seeking solutions. That is why I would also like to thank the authors for raising this question debate today, so that we can discuss the subject thoroughly among all the parties in the Danish Parliament. A good and safe upbringing is part of the foundation for a well-functioning adult life. Therefore, it is essential that interventions are made when the country's children and young people experience mental dissatisfaction. We know from research that the earlier efforts are being made, the better, but it is also just common sense. That is why I am glad, as we also heard that the Minister for Children and Social Affairs mentioned, that the government and the Danish People's Party have set aside 1 billion. kr. for the first 1,000 days for vulnerable and vulnerable families. This will increase the opportunity to provide the support that vulnerable children and their families so urgently need, and this is very positive. We also saw the rate pool from last year on health, which I actually called a psychiatry pool, because there was a great deal of focus on psychiatry and especially for children and young people, and we have just made a psychiatry action plan for approx. 2 billion kr., where there is also a lot of focus on children and young people. Basically, I believe that prevention is absolutely essential to solving this problem. We should not wait for the young people to be mistrusted and diagnosed, but we must ensure that skilled professionals are on the field as soon as the first signs of dissatisfaction can be spotted and that action is already taken here. That is why I also welcome the fact that preventive action in the municipalities has been given a significant boost during this period of government. I think we should also talk about the perfection culture that exists among our young people, where you sit on Instagram and mirror yourself in all the world's top models. The Minister for Education has opened this debate and it is important that we take it up together. Instagram is not reality, and how are we told and taught the young people to distinguish? I don't know. But I think that some of the uncertainty and feeling of not being good enough arises here. As we can hear from the ministers in this debate, it is certainly not because it has not been attempted to counteract mental dissatisfaction with various initiatives and initiatives. There is. But we are not in the end, and I do not think that this agenda will go away in a moment. I note, however, that some very crucial efforts have been made and I look forward to seeing the effects of those efforts. In the Liberal Alliance, we will continue to focus on the subject, for it is no good that Denmark's future is more miserable. We cannot live with that, and we must not live with it. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which Mrs Pernille Bendixen read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219201401	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219201413	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democrats for taking the initiative for such an important debate as the one we have today, thereby focusing politically on something which is a very big and urgent problem and which is also a very complex problem, as our debate today also bears the stamp of. There are some children and young people who are miserable a little, which we can achieve preventive action and act in relation to, and then there are some who have major problems and who need to be treated in a completely different way. In the alternative, we also focus on the well-being of children and young people and on preventing misfortune. In fact, we are so focused on the fact that in the autumn we proposed that there should be a ministry of well-being and care, and we actually think that in some other countries there is a minister for this area. We want to invest in children and young people's well-being and mental health and to do much earlier. As we have heard today, too many children suffer from problems such as anxiety, stress and poor quality of life, which, fortunately, can be prevented far along the way if we want to. The aim of the welfare state is to create better living conditions for the whole population, and now I am just up on the big blade here.That is why health care professionals were introduced in 1937; that is why in 1946 a compulsory school medical system was introduced; and that is also why school meals were introduced for everyone in 1948. But something has happened since then. It is as if the preventive part does not have such a big focus and that it does not so much recognise that we actually still need this kind of action, for example. in connection with our schools. I think that is a huge problem. We have recently discussed the harmful performance culture that has arisen in our education system in the Parliamentary Chamber in a question debate. We agreed here that the explanations for the emergence of that culture of achievement are many and that political action is needed. We believe in the alternative that too much attention has been paid to grades and tests; we do not think they should be abolished, but we believe that too much attention has been paid to them. There must be more focus on feedback and good teaching and the part of the training that is about it. But I will not go into it much more in today's speech, because, as I have said, we have had a question debate on this recently. In the health visions of the alternative, we have many suggestions on how to prevent misfortune. We propose, among other things, that health care providers play a greater role, including in relation to, for example: children and young people between the ages of 14 and 24 and in the context of youth education, and to a greater extent to have well-being conversations with children and young people and to have health care professionals who help to have a talk with children and young people. We have, for example. seen that they in the municipality of Halsnæs have had great success in having open consultation, where you can come in and talk to healthcare professionals and midwives. We have also in a financial act previously set aside money for peer two peer projects, where young people help young people, which we know is a very good thing and has a good effect on young people who are miserable. We have managed, in previous wage-pool negotiations with the Radicals, whose rapporteur has unfortunately gone, to get through the fact that professionals dealing with children, for example. in schools, can train within mindfulness in order to prevent the stress of young people and give them a breathing space in a hectic everyday life. We have also tabled motions for resolutions which will give all children and young people the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, because a study has shown in the past that fixed leisure activities create greater well-being. We also believe that it would be sensible to set targets for children's access to nature and open-air life, i.e. that all children should have equal access to it, and unfortunately today they do not have a great social inequality when it comes to access to outdoor life and nature. The minister mentioned the principles: • Do something active, do something together, do something meaningful. This is what creates mental health, and we know this from research, for example. in the context of the ABC action on mental health. So what concrete proposals do we have as politicians on which we can stand together? I'm excited about that, and I can't wait to hear about it. And what can we decide that makes us have more meaningful and active communities for our children? I hope we get some really good ideas on that today. That's what I've been looking forward to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219201934	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219201937	Thank you. It's just to use the opportunity to get a little smarter. I have heard before that the alternative is that we want to limit the character race, but I also understand from the rapporteur today that we really want to maintain the grades. Could the rapporteur try to clarify this a little? And then the rapporteur says that feedback is better. I just need to get it right. Is it because you want boats-and? So, you want to keep grades, but you also want to give room for more feedback, or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202022	I would like to expand on that. Characters in themselves are a number, and they do not really say much if they are not linked to some words, and that is what is feedback. We do not want to abolish all grades as such, but we want there to be character-free semesters, for example. in youth education. We want, like CBS has introduced it, character-free semesters where you get a free space to learn without having to compete. Because you see that they are actually being stressed about sitting and wondering if they are doing better than their peers, rather than concentrating on being part of a learning environment. So we do not want to abolish grades completely, but we want much more focus to be placed on feedback and the formative learning and then less focus on characters and competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202111	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202112	Thank you. Then there is one other thing that the alternative rapporteur might be able to make me wiser. In the proposal for adoption itself, I think there is a wording to the effect that tests are to be abolished in the smallest classes. Do you mean with the tests in the second grade, or does it apply to the whole part of the schooling? What do you mean by the smallest classes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202140	Now I can only speak for us about what we mean. I think I can say that we believe that the national tests are being used incorrectly, because they are being used precisely to compete and compare schools, children between countries and everything else. So if you're going to have national tests, it has to be up to the schools if they want them, and then they have to be used for learning and not just to compare with. So it doesn't just apply to schooling.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202209	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202212	I just get a little confused, because the alternative is in a text of adoption which says that national tests will be abolished in the smallest classes. Then we cannot just stand by and say that we mean something in the alternative, and that is something other than what is in the text of the adoption. So are you not in the adoption text anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202230	We mean nothing other than the text of the adoption. We just want to go further. You're allowed to do that. In other words, a text for adoption is something we can agree on, it is a common denominator. That is why we can have some hopes that we can go even further and not necessarily have to have national tests at all throughout school. We are allowed to think so, although we cannot agree with all the other parties on this. So there's nothing wrong with that at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202258	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202259	Well, I'm not saying it's wrong. I was just confused because it was asked directly whether it was thought that it should be abolished for the smallest vintages, as the text says. And there was the answer: we mean something else in the alternative. Otherwise, I've misunderstood.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202317	I think the rapporteur has misunderstood that. I was just trying to elaborate on what we mean by that. And I was in the process of explaining that we actually believe that it is being used incorrectly, so we think it is really fine, as the text says, namely that it is being abolished in the first few years. Because it creates incredibly low self-esteem when you realize that you are the dumbest because you sit for over an hour. Kids aren't stupid. They are well aware that those who sit only half an hour and manage the whole meerskumspiber and all that is asked is the clever ones, and those who sit and persist are those who do the worst. It's not good for children's self-esteem. That is why we fully support the text of the adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202358	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and we go further. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202408	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Social Democratic Party for raising this debate. The question of the causes of children and young people's mental displeasure and how we ensure better living conditions for our children and young people is also something we in the SF are really concerned about. Unfortunately, as has also been mentioned in the debate, it is a fact that an increasing number of children and young people are experiencing mental problems and dissatisfaction. A number of studies and statistics indicate that we are currently facing major challenges, with an increasing number of children and young people experiencing mental health problems. This is also reflected elsewhere, in psychiatry, because far more children and adolescents are in contact with psychiatry than before. My starting point and that of the SF is that these children and young people are not the problem, they show the problem. They tell us something important about the way we have arranged our society and the expectations that we have of each other. Psychiatric problems are reactions to the conditions under which children and young people live; the experiences they have and have had and the relationships they have with peers, parents, siblings, educators, teachers, etc. Why, then, do we see this trend towards increasing mental distrust among children and young people? First of all, it is important to stress that mental disorders and mental health problems are complex conditions, which are often not only due to one cause. Nevertheless, it is striking that the trend towards the great increase in mental dissatisfaction among children and young people is taking place precisely in these years. In the SF we are quite convinced that a large part of the explanation for the general trend towards increased mental dissatisfaction among children and young people must be found in the way we have organized our society in recent years, focusing on speed, efficiency, speed and individual performance, and that day care, primary schools and preventive social services lack the resources necessary to detect the small signs of dissatisfaction early and that help is given early. The children show the distrust of their behavior, both by e.g. to be introverted, to withdraw from others or to become outgoing and to come into conflict. In order to understand whether there are family problems, learning difficulties, bullying or the like, there must be time for adults to see the individual child, and there must be the necessary help for the child, the child group, the family or where help is needed. The age of individualisation and self-accountability should also be seen as part of the social diagnosis. Young people are free to create themselves. In any case, they are told that the possibilities are open to them, if they so wish. Progress reform, training ceilings, national tests and character charts are policy measures that have thrown coal on the performance fire. What do we tell young people when we implement policies that are about hurrying, encourage perfect performance in everything, and at the same time say that we must not make mistakes or make wrong choices? Well, then we say that they are not good enough if they are not doing well, and that it is their own individual fault if something goes wrong • that it is wrong to step next to, stumble and go detours. It's a completely wrong signal to send. For that is exactly what life is done by: being open and curious, failing and learning from the fact that life does not just form a string. In 2017, the Psychiatry Foundation conducted a study asking 1,500 young people between 16 and 24 years of age about the importance of performing well in school. 42 per cent. answered that they agreed or very much agreed that high grades on the training are necessary for a good life. It is quite crazy, and it shows quite clearly one of the major problems today. The perfect life is coupled by many young people with performances and high grades. Young people have so much internalised society's expectations and made them self-esteem. In SF we will do a great deal to support better conditions for children and young people, because it cannot be the case that children in a country like Denmark should be so mistrusted. Over the past many years, we have fought to spread the possibility of free psychological assistance to children and young people, both municipal and in the context of the pool negotiations. We've made some progress by securing free psychological assistance for the 18-21-year-olds. However, we must still ensure that all young people have easy and free access to help if they experience psychological problems. Then, with our proposal for a 'Ro on reform', we have also highlighted precisely the social diagnosis that I have also pointed out here in my speech. For free psychological assistance and more help to those who experience dissatisfaction are of course crucial. However, if we were to ensure at first that our children and young people did not develop the problems, that would be preferable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202927	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we thank you. I understand from a joint agreement between the Minister and the rapporteur that no one else has asked to speak and I understand that correctly, I see. That is why I would like to say that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as I have said, will not take place until Thursday 21 February 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219202950	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219203120	The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219203133	Thank you very much for that, President, this late hour in Parliament on an incredibly important subject. It is the case that illness affects a great many people, and for the individual who suffers from illness, the most frequent result is that you cannot live life in exactly the same way as you would have liked if you had been in addition to the disease. You will find it harder to live by your desires and goals in life. This applies to both physical illness and mental illness. Today we are going to discuss mental illness and the framework that should be set up about that part of the Danish population, and that is therefore more and more. It is both adults and children and adolescents who suffer from mental illness. Politically, we must ensure that we make continuous and dynamic adjustments and develop the framework we set up for psychiatry in Denmark. And in the draft law we are considering today, L 164, there is, if I may say so, such a little collection of little of each, based on the fact that the government presented a proposal in September last year, and now the government wants to take action on seven specific points, as far as I can count. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, as it has been put forward here, but there are also some points where we think that we need to look at it more closely towards a third reading. Let me mention the points. First, it should be made a shell task that printing contracts and coordination plans should be made in relation to mentally ill hospital patients who are in contact with the municipal part of the psychiatry. It's good, and it's necessary to make this easy transition and coupling more, so that you do the best for patients, whether it's the municipal part or it's the treatment psychiatrist in the regional context. Then there is compulsory follow-up after printing • yes. It is an experimental scheme that was made in 2013. 126 patients have been followed by this scheme. We in the Socialist Group really think that it has been a very good arrangement for the head doctor to decide and to decide to require the patient to appear for medication in the psychiatry after they have been discharged. We are really a little saddened by the removal of this offer, which has been proposed, and that is perhaps one of the points we in the Socialist Group would have liked to see deepened towards the third reading. We know that there have been cases in psychiatry where violent and outgoing patients have been in possession of knives and other things, and that is why we also support the initiative that there should be the possibility of using body scanners in connection with the search of patients and relatives. We in the Social Democratic Party are also very sympathetic to the fact that we have a huge problem with many abusers among psychiatric patients and that it may therefore also be necessary to control the outlying areas around the psychiatric wards by using drug dogs. One point that is also included in the legislation here is that the regions should have the opportunity to enter into agreements with private actors for forensic psychiatric patients sentenced to outpatient treatment. It does not immediately sound so good in a socialist ear, but we are also in the Social Democratic Party of that view and we have said so many times to the regions that they must make sure that they use all the opportunities they have to help patients, whether within their own region, in other regions or whether they are private offers. And that is why we are nodding the test here, but what is incredibly important to us and also described in the legislative proposal is that it is the regions that have to set quality requirements and make economic agreements with the private actors in this area. Of course, what we think of, and are most fearful of, is what we saw in the 00s, when the golden cocks were popularly opened up to the private actors, and where there was a flight of major primary competences from the regional hospital system, that is to say the public hospital system, and out to the private sector, where they could make much more money. We never want that situation to arise in Denmark again, especially in the psychiatric area where we have so many bottlenecks in terms of professional capacity. Finishing tariffs, which exist in somatics, will also have to be introduced into psychiatry. We have been advocating this for a long time, and we think that the framework set up here is fine. We'll follow it. But we are afraid that municipalities will take patients home for an offer that is not good. And we know that many municipalities have had a real difficulty in building up professionalism and capacity, so this is an area we will be following very closely. The last thing I will conclude with, President, is to say that there is also a change in relation to hospital doctors who will be able to provide immediate treatment for acute withdrawal. When you read it through, you think: Why the hell haven't you had those adjustments made in the past? 'Cause it makes really good sense. With these comments, we support the draft law, but we ask some questions towards third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219203711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219203718	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for giving us the opportunity to talk about psychiatry today. It is certainly on the basis of a psychiatry plan presented by the government, a psychiatry plan that we in the Danish People's Party would have liked to have been a little different and had filled something more and ensured that everyone who has a mental illness in Denmark could get the help they need. Having said that and looking at the bill itself, I would also like to say that I am sorry that we are once again trying to show a picture of people who are worst in today's Denmark by showing what can be said about the difficult side of it, namely where coercion is used in psychiatry. I know that a legislative proposal must take account of exactly what needs to be done, but I would have liked the draft law to have been drafted in such a way that some of the values that are about us wanting to do something good for the people who are in the psychiatry were put into it. We see printing agreements and coordination plans as an important part of being decommissioned into our own homes or into a social institution, but it would have been nice if there had also been a little more on how to ensure that the individual is taken into the plans and how to also talk to people before they get a psychosis, so that, with their relatives, you can help them, so that you merge those things so that it is not just about the hard facts. As far as compulsory follow-up after printing is concerned, it is very good that we are now going out and saying that the law has been evaluated. As it was, it didn't come to its right. It was already a law that we very much disagreed with, but we put a great many different things into the proposal to ensure that it came to its right. But then I need something about what we can do for those people who do not take their medicine and become outgoing and endanger themselves, for their family, for their surroundings, and who are then forced into hospital instead. I would like us to add something about how we could, together with the individual, ensure that we help them because they are the ones who are the hardest. In relation to the use of body scanners and drug dogs, it is once again proof that we have not found out how to secure the most difficult people; we are not helping those who have a drug abuse or other forms of abuse to get out of it, nor are we helping those people who have to smuggle weapons into a secure ward. This is something we do out of need, not out of desire. We do this because we can see that there is a problem, but we need resources out there. Had we been able to do a proper psychiatry, it wouldn't have been necessary to do all these things now, but we say yes to it because we have to secure the staff there. There are also proposals to enter into agreements with private institutions, and we think that is very good, because some of the psychiatric patients can be looked at with other eyes, and there are others who can help lift that part. There are also proposals to adjust the tariffs for psychiatric end-of-care days. It would also have been very good if it had been included in the legislative text, that it should be ensured that the people who then come out into the municipalities are searched for exactly the institutions that fit exactly with them, so that we do not have to stand again and talk about the 150 psychiatric places that are being made for those who are not fit for other places; or that we should gather someone who is a drug addict with someone who is not a drug addict; or that they should come to some institutions where you have exactly the skills they need. The last part of the proposal is about ensuring immediate treatment of acute withdrawal. Once again, it is a proposal in which we could have looked at how to ensure that people are helped out of the abuse they have. I have talked to mentally ill people who would like to get out of an abuse and have an abuse treatment, but at the time when they said it there was no room for them, and so you have to take them there when they need it so that you can make sure they get out on the other side. So, yes, we support the proposal. We have a number of questions, because it must be ensured that with this we are thinking precisely of the individual citizen and not just of those who are violent abusers who require the use of a lot of coercion and other extremes in order to be taken care of. These are sick people that we are put in the world to watch out for. I hope we can get that into a text so that we can ensure that we can help them in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219204223	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219204234	For too many years, mental illness and vulnerability have been in the shadow of physical diseases. We in the Left want that to be different. With the government's psychiatry plan from September 2018, we jointly promised, we took an important step towards reconciling mental and physical illness, also in financial terms. I am proud of this both on behalf of my party, but particularly on behalf of patients, because it is all about them. The increase in the number of people with mental disorders, 28%. in adult psychiatry since 2010, and not least our many young people, who say that they are miserable, are disheartening. 53 per cent. Since 2010, more children and young people have found their way to psychiatry. This requires action, and now we are putting on a turbo with concrete initiatives designed to make life better and more manageable during and after hospitalization in a psychiatric unit, and to strengthen the security of psychiatric departments. Too often we have heard stories from the psychiatric wards that, for example, Drugs and drugs find their way to the closed psychiatric wards. And on my visits to various closed psychiatric departments, I have also met patients who have been sad about the almost harsh environment that sometimes prevails there. It doesn't work because you have to be safe as a patient in psychiatry. Drugs and drugs are a dangerous cocktail with psychopharmaceuticals. And it makes good sense that we are now tightening up to allow legislation to apply both body scanners and drug dogs. Drugs, drugs and dangerous objects do not belong in a closed psychiatric ward. Such things create insecurity and dangerous situations for patients, relatives and staff alike. The Danish health service lacks coherence, also in psychiatry. The government's proposals for a health reform will bring the treatment closer to the citizens and ensure more flexible transitions for example. Cronics with col and diabetes. But there is also a need for better transitions in psychiatry. By focusing on printing agreements and coordination plans, we give the municipalities and hospitals better opportunities to find the best solutions for the patient in dialogue. No one must be lost between two chairs, forgotten or squeezed in the transition from one institution or sector to another. And we know that printing agreements and coordination plans can prevent forced admissions while at the same time ensuring a more coherent course for the patient. Some psychiatric patients have chaotic life cycles, and we must and must hold hands under them.It is safe for the patient and for the relatives and an important help to the staff of our settlements. As I mentioned at the outset, we in the Left have an ambition to equate psychiatry and somatics, and that also applies to final processing tariffs. We already know it from the somatics. Seen in light of the fact that in 2017 there were approx. 24,000 final days, when a final citizen took up a place in a psychiatric ward, there is room for improvement and a new incentive tool. It's no good, as a finished citizen, to take up the capacity of a sick patient. It is simply not worthy of anyone. You have to get home safe when you're done. Therefore, it makes sense to charge a state final processing tariff similar to the one we know from the somatics. We need more capacity in psychiatry, and an incentive for municipalities to take completed citizens home is one way to go. Another way to go is to make more use of spare capacity in the private sector. With the bill here, it will be possible for the regions to enter into agreements with private actors on outpatient treatment of forensic psychiatric patients. Last but not least, we are giving doctors in the hospital the opportunity to prescribe addictive medicines until drug abuse or withdrawal treatment can be initiated, just as we do away with the so-called forced follow-up legislation. The reason is simple: there has been no use of the scheme, and the Danish Health Authority considers that there are legal challenges. However, I would like to state here that I have had a great deal of thought immediately by abolishing the system for this particular group of very sick patients. I am quite confident that we are launching new initiatives on printing and coordination plans, but I would very much like to discuss, if there is interest in it, with the other parties of the Folketing and, of course, the Minister for Health, whether it is the right way to go about lifting compulsory follow-up. The Left can support the bill as it has been put forward. And on behalf of the Conservatives, I should like to say that the bill can also be supported by that side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219204711	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219204720	Thank you for that, President. L 164, which we are discussing here today, is based on the government's presentation for a psychiatry plan from September 2018, • We promise jointly. The bill consists of several elements of health law and psychiatry law respectively. There are demands for the drafting of printout agreements, the abolition of compulsory follow-up and the immediate treatment of acute withdrawal, which we are, as a starting point, positive about. But there are also a number of elements which are totally unacceptable to the Enhedslisten. It's the use of body scanners and drug dogs. It is outpatient legal psychiatric treatment at private institutions and it is new charges for final treatment days. First of all, I would like to say a few general words about psychiatry. The bill here does not address at all the crucial problem in psychiatry, whether hospital psychiatry or community social psychiatry: lack of resources. Instead, we see a number of symptom-treatment proposals, some that are sympathetic, others are aggravating, but the basic thing is that, as funds do not follow, this does not help solve the problem. As the Medical Association also points out in their hearing response, a study carried out by Momentum at KL in 2018 shows that the proportion of acute re-hospitals up to 30 days after printing has increased from 18.6 per cent. in 2010 to 22.3%. in 2017. At the same time, the average admission time of psychiatric patients aged 7 years from 2010 to 2017 has decreased by 21%. During the same period, the total number of hospitalizations has increased by 31%, while the number of hospitalizations in the psychiatry has increased by 14 per cent. At the same time, the appropriations have not been followed up, so the expenditure per year. patient has actually decreased. It is just a picture of what the reality is in psychiatry today: patients who are being discharged before they are finished and that we do not have a social psychiatry that is able to follow up on the group of patients who come out. That is the real problem in psychiatry, and that is not the issue in the draft law. Briefly about the individual elements: we welcome the introduction of printing agreements. However, there is a lack of targeted means to ensure that there is action behind the agreements, as well as the involvement of municipalities as well as practitioners and relatives. It is also positive that compulsory follow-up should be abolished. The effect has been questionable and this has created doubts about legal certainty. It is also positive that immediate treatment for acute withdrawal is introduced. On the other hand, we find it totally unacceptable to introduce drug dogs and body scanners. The problem of illegal drugs, which are found in closed departments, is really enough, but it is solved by more staff resources and more specialised departments. The introduction of a monitoring and control regime, on the other hand, may lead to an escalation of the level of conflict to the disadvantage of both staff and other patients. The government also intends to increase the final processing tariff for the municipalities. Again, we believe that this is a completely wrong way to go. Generally speaking, this is a limited group of patients who are difficult to fuse out. When the municipalities do not solve the task today, we must expect that it is because they do not have seats that are adapted to the needs. Too high a final processing tariff increases the risk of the municipality being taken home because they feel financially pressured. It will harm the treatment of a group of the most vulnerable citizens. Instead, there is a need for a boost in the municipal social psychiatry, so there will be more smaller and more specialised departments. Finally, there is the proposal to open up outpatient care to private institutions. We do not believe that it solves the fundamental problem of missing places in both hospital psychiatry and forensic psychiatry. After all, there will be no more psychiatrists to open up to private actors. On the contrary, it may harm the continuity of treatment if more players are involved in the treatment process. The overall proposal does not solve the problem of lack of resources in psychiatry. This is an expression of symptom treatment, and we fear that in some areas it may even worsen the situation. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205145	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205155	Thank you. The bill is intended to help improve conditions for psychiatric patients. Unfortunately, we see many patients with mental problems, and we must do everything we can to help them. We propose that printing agreements and coordination plans be concluded for adults who are known to the supervisor to receive support because of reduced physical capacity. Today, too many patients are lost because there is no coherence between regions and municipalities. All too often patients are released for nothing, and unfortunately there is only one way, and that is back to hospitalization. Therefore, it is important that these patients are followed up and taken care of after hospital discharge. Then it must be possible to take action against abuse. Many patients with mental problems also have problems with abuse. It should therefore be possible to check with body scanners and drug dogs whether drugs are entering the hospital. It should also be possible for doctors in the hospital to offer medicines as part of a medical treatment of drug abuse, although these can create addiction. Of course, drug addicts with withdrawal must have immediate help with withdrawal treatment until the proper treatment can be initiated. When a patient is ready for discharge from the hospital, he must be discharged and returned home and continue treatment in the municipality as soon as possible. One should not stay in a hospital longer than is necessary, either for the benefit of the individual patient, for the sake of other patients who may then not be able to get a necessary place and treatment, or for the sake of the economy. Therefore, it is also proposed that municipalities should pay a tariff for having psychiatric patients in hospital after they are ready for discharge. In this way it is hoped that all patients will get out of hospital and home for treatment in the municipalities as soon as they are ready for it. It is therefore very welcome that the capacity will finally be included in the private sector and now allows the regions to enter into agreements with private hospitals to treat outpatients, forensic psychiatric patients. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205418	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205436	Thank you. It is a major problem that more and more Danes today suffer from mental illness. According to the Danish Nursing Council, the number of patients in psychiatry has increased by 44 per cent. Since 2008, and other figures from the Danish Health Authority show that the number of persons admitted acutely at least five times in one year has increased from 824 in 2009 to 1,198 in 2015. For the alternative, it is important to take the problems seriously and strengthen psychiatric efforts. We need to help people with mental illnesses return to a good, safe and meaningful life. The government is proposing a number of different elements in this bill, and overall we find it positive that the government wants to have an increased focus on psychiatry and wants a strengthened and coherent treatment of people with mental disorders. So we find that positive in the alternative. However, there are a number of points and points about this legislative proposal which are crucial and which we cannot support immediately. The government's proposals for printing agreements and coordination plans after the completed course of treatment we are positive about the start of the positive. Unfortunately, we find that relapses in psychiatry are a widespread problem and the rehabilitation process that exists for the patient is crucial. In this context, in the alternative, we have a proposal for a policy of guaranteeing a follow-up within one week of the course of treatment. You can call it a kind of rehabilitation plan and equate it with when you are discharged from a hospital in the somatic area. Our proposal includes, for example, that agreements should be made in cooperation with the patient and/or the patient's relatives that there should be social offers. We have some different suggestions on how we think we should do it. What is in this proposal is to opt for the abolition of compulsory follow-up after printing. We are concerned about this, and I would like to point out that we share Danske Regioner's concern that we might risk that persons covered by the scheme will not be in contact with the psychiatry after discharge. We are also concerned about the part of the bill dealing with body scanners and drug dogs, and we are concerned about moving towards setting up hospitals as prisons. It may be rough or a lot on the tip, but we believe that this is an unfortunate development. So, immediately, we are positive that there is a focus on psychiatry, but we have some points that we cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205829	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Radical Left is not present, so now it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219205840	The draft law put forward here by the government contains a number of very diverse initiatives, but all of them are intended to strengthen psychiatry. Some of which we in the SF agree with, and other parts of it we cannot support. Together, this means that I cannot say clearly that the SF supports the whole proposal, and I therefore also want us to be able to discuss in committee whether there could be a division of the legislative proposal. I will start with the positive content of the draft law from the SF's point of view, for example. the initiatives which can help to improve the coherence and responsibilities of the psychiatry. This applies to printing agreements, coordination plans for all adult patients and the cessation of forced post-print follow-up. It is very important for the SF to ensure proper delivery in close and handheld collaboration with both patient and relatives. One can hope that the initiatives can contribute to this, although we would like to see more focus on the inclusion of the relatives in the tradition. In general, SF wants much more involvement of patients and relatives in the treatment. The possibility of releasing addictive substances in the treatment of abuse and ensuring immediate treatment for acute patients is also favourable to SF. We believe that this will improve the treatment of those dependent on drugs. But there are also several elements that we in the SF are concerned about in some cases extremely concerned about. This applies to the elements of the bill on body scanners and drug dogs, the collection of final treatment rates and the increased use of private hospitals. Unfortunately, drugs and knives are found in psychiatric wards and we would like to help eliminate the risk it poses to other patients and staff. But it is a dilemma to introduce more control and coercion options. On the one hand, there is a need to clean up the organised distribution of drugs in the departments, but on the other hand, a hospital department is not a prison, and therefore staff should not have the role which can also be conflict stairs. Body search and drug detection with dogs is a police task and should not be solved by private guards. As is also expressed in several of the consultation responses, the use of body scanners and drug dogs can have an unfortunate signal value, resulting in increased mistrust and suspicion between staff and patients. We do not think this is appropriate in the SF. Instead, we believe that those resources can be used much better, for example. measures to strengthen the treatment of abuse in the department, thereby helping to prevent and help the patient. We are also a little lukewarm about the collection of final processing charges. Economic incentives can be good in themselves, but we are concerned about the real impact of this proposal. As several consultation responses also show, it is to be feared that the proposal will lead to more local authorities starting to repatriate patients to less suitable offers because the incentive to do so will be there. The proposal takes the view that it will increase the capacity of psychiatric departments, but this presupposes that the municipalities have another relevant offer. And there is a risk that more patients will be discharged into nothing if you do not put in with stakes where there is actually a municipal offer ready. The risk of this, we think, should be further identified. The proposal to allow the regions to enter into agreements with private institutions on the treatment of psychiatric patients with an outpatient treatment sentence is quite simply opposed by the SF. It is and remains a public responsibility that psychiatric care is properly managed. The capacity challenge must not be solved by outsourcing to private institutions, but must instead be resolved in the region. The award will include: lead to increased confusion about treatment responsibility and a distortion of which patients are treated where. For us, it is crucial that efforts for people with mental disorders are given a significant priority and strengthened. Psychiatry is under severe pressure, and therefore greater efforts are needed to address the major challenges facing psychiatry, with an increasing number of patients, a lack of resources and capacity problems. We believe, as the Medical Association also notes in their hearing answer, that the overall draft law here only contains few and small steps in the right direction. There is simply a lack of resources in treatment psychiatry and, for that matter, also in social psychiatry. That is why much more needs to be done than is proposed with this bill. The challenges cannot be solved simply by trying to create better coherence and by developing additional economic incentives. Against this background, the SF can support parts of the proposal, although we are more sceptical about other parts of the proposal. I should like to welcome the Radicals and say that they have some of the same considerations and will look at it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219210357	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp, there are no brief remarks. The Conservative People's Party is covered by the Left, and then it is the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219210409	Thank you for the comments on the bill and the support from both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party to the main elements of the bill. If, as several of the rapporteurs have said, this bill does not contain the whole of it, then I fully agree, because it is, in fact, just a component of the psychiatry action plan presented by the government last September. And when there is a demand in relation to financial resources, I can say that the increase is more than 2.1 billion. kr., which we also put forward with the Psychiatry Action Plan in the autumn, is very much an expression of the fact that we also give economic priority to raising the area. And so, of course, things have to be seen in a context and not in such a way that this bill can just stand in isolation. However, these are important initiatives, both individually and in general, in order to ensure that we strengthen psychiatry. That is why I fundamentally disagree with, among other things. The rapporteurs of the SF and Enhedslisten, who say that introducing a final tariff is a wrong way to go. So, excuse me, 65 beds in psychiatry were occupied in 2017 by patients who were fully treated, 65 beds, constant, all year round. Nearly 24,000 final days we had. These are bedrooms which I would much rather spend on patients who have a need for treatment, not least in a situation where we know very well that there is also a desire from professionals that we should have more beds in psychiatry. That's why I just strongly disagree with the thinking that that's quite okay. And I would actually like to quote Mikkel Rasmussen, whom many in this Chamber probably know as chairman of the Psychiatri-Listen and vice-chairman of the Psychiatry and Social Committee of the Central Denmark Region, and who, in connection with the discussion about the final days and conditions in Aarhus Municipality, is one of the municipalities that are not so good at repatriating the patients, says that there is an economic incentive for the municipality to have the patients completed in the psychiatric ward, paid by the region, instead of paying for a special offer or a settlement offer. Then he goes on to say that if the municipality is going out to find a special offer or a settlement offer, it can cost somewhere between 4,000 and 14,000 kroner. Depending on the patient's diagnosis. So this is something that must be kept up against the fact that their payment in relation to psychiatry today is DKK 2,000. Therefore, I just have to say to those who, like me, point out that this does not play a role: yes, it has a role to play, whether the economic incentives are turning the right way. And what we can see is that for a large proportion of the finished patients it is not the case that they are finished for a short time. If that were the case, then I could understand the desire to get coordination plans and cooperation in place before printing, because it is also a time and a time for finding the right offer before printing. However, patients who have completed treatment days in psychiatry have an average of 37 days beyond the time when they have been assessed medically to have finished. A large number of our psychiatric completed patients are over 100 days old. This applies to more than one in ten of our patients who have completed treatment. That is why I have to say that if we really want to get the financial incentives to turn the right way, given that as a municipality we do not think that a specialised housing offer is more expensive than having our citizens in psychiatric wards, then we have to go in and look at the final treatment rates, just as we did at the time in the somatic field. And we're kind of laying up for a phase-in over three years, but also a phase-in that looks different than the one we had in the somatic field. Where you get the economic spanking right away, so to speak, very quickly, we are going to propose here that there will be an escalation only after 7 days and then after 15 days, so that you will just give time for the municipality to find the specialist offer for the citizen who may not be ready to get fully into his own home after printing from the psychiatry. That is why I also hope that, at least in committee, there will be some concrete and constructive proposals on how to deal with this part. On the basis of the consultation round, we have also listened to the fact that there was a problem for some of the municipalities which, like the local authorities of some of our psychiatric hospitals, have been admitted over a long period of time, they are transferred to the population register in the municipality concerned. That is why we have amended the legislative proposal after the consultation period, so that we follow the principles that apply in the social field in relation to trading municipalities and payment municipalities, so that it is not the case that some municipalities take over, so to speak, a disproportionate bill after finalisation rates, because some citizens have been in hospital for a long time, and so that we commit the original municipality to the responsibility it has, to ensure that the citizen also makes good progress. Similarly, I must say in relation to the statements about the use of body scanners that came from, for example. On the side of the Enhedslisten and SF, I do not think that they really reflect the consultation answers given or the issues there are. Because if we look at the security department, that is to say with some of our most dangerous patients, then I think it is entirely appropriate to create a legal framework for the use of body scanners, also on a regular basis, and to ensure that there is the legal basis for this when there have been doubts as to whether there was really a legal basis for body scans in connection with visits to the safety system or our forensic wards where there may be situations where there may be a need for it. I can at any rate also note that a number of consultation responses in this way recognise both the desire for it and the need for it. This applies both to some of the professional organizations if you take, for example. Danish Psychiatric Society, or if you take SIND's hearing answer, where they also acknowledge the desire and need to reduce the risk of dangerous objects and drugs in psychiatric departments. That is why I think it is important to say that this is not, of course, about introducing prison-like conditions. It is also about ensuring that patients in our psychiatric wards are not brought into a situation where their treatment is destroyed by smuggling, for example. drugs in the department, which makes it impossible to actually carry out the course of treatment that can bring you forward, because there are others who smuggle drugs, which we have unfortunately looked at several of our psychiatric hospitals. This is what we need, both for patients' sake and for employees' sake, to be able to ensure that there is a regulatory framework that allows us to go in and deal with it. I also note that there are several of the hearings which actually point to the fact that people would have liked to have used drugs dogs in the departments as well. And there we have actually chosen to delineate this to the fact that it is about the outdoor areas just in relation to some of those who work there in everyday life and the needs they see. However, as I have said, I am very pleased with the support of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party for the fact that with the bill, with both coordination plans and printing agreements, we can also help to take a number of initiatives in this area, including ensuring that where additional capacity may be needed, we give the regions the opportunity and the right to conclude agreements with private actors on outpatient psychiatric treatment. It should also be seen in the light of a 15-percent increase in the number of psychiatric patients, and that we can see that today there are places where forensic psychiatric patients bite into the capacity of our general psychiatric wards, which both creates some situations in daily life that may be challenging, but, as such, also means that there is not that capacity in the general psychiatric area, because there is a shift towards forensic psychiatric patients, which per year. I mean, I'm gonna have to make an offer. That is why I think it is a good common sense and not an ideology. It is a pity if it is an ideology which must stand in the way of allowing the regions to make agreements with private actors so that we can exploit the full capacity of the psychiatry sector and thus also ensure that our patients in psychiatry receive the offer they need and are entitled to. So thank you for your support. I am, of course, making myself available for any questions that may be raised in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211329	There are also a few questions now. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211333	Thank you. The minister came up with this with the tariff for final days. I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that patients who have finished are going to social psychiatry. I just wonder why the Minister thinks that when they are in a psychiatric ward, it is just because the municipalities think it is best that they are and that the way we solve that problem is to punish the municipalities financially. The reality is that social psychiatry is just as pressured as hospital psychiatry is and that it is because there really is no place for the citizens who stay in those departments. I mean, when it's 58 percent. of the doctors in the psychiatric wards who say that they print patients before they are actually finished and when almost half of them have to reject patients they really think should be hospitalized, we have a capacity problem. But it is not alone because the municipalities do not take back citizens. That's because there's a lack of resources. When they remain hospitalized, it is because there is a lack of resources in social psychiatry, and when patients are rejected, it is because there is a lack of resources in hospital psychiatry. I do not think the picture is so difficult to decipher, and I find it difficult to see how it should be solved by punishing the municipalities financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211451	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211453	I just have to say that just when we speak capacity, I am surprised that Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not at all concerned that 65 beds were permanently occupied with finished patients. It is precisely beds that could have been used for some of the patients, and we all meet professionals who say: I wish we had more capacity. At least we need to free that capacity. I chose not to take the view that it was about how the municipalities cash thought. In fact, I chose to quote the President of the Psychiatry List in the Central Jutland Region and his analysis in relation to what I can really follow, and that is also part of the argument behind that we must have the financial incentives to turn right. It's not about punishing the municipalities. It is about ensuring that it is not cheaper to leave citizens finished in the psychiatric ward when, in such a way, you have an obligation to ensure that citizens move on well. There is also available capacity right now in the 150 special places, which I can only call on the local authorities to start using more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211601	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211602	However, both regions and municipalities have cash in mind because they are financially under pressure, and the capacity problems in psychiatry are therefore not solved by the fact that there are 65 beds with patients that we can move into the municipalities. The point is that when the municipalities do not take advantage of it, when they do not take care of the patients, it is because there really is no offer for them. We will not solve that by punishing the municipalities. There will still be some citizens caught up, because the best offer that is for them right now is, unfortunately, to continue being hospitalized. If the municipalities are to take them home, we have to say that the offer is not there, and so it is the patients who are going to get stuck. After all, the problem of capacity is solved by adding more resources, both to social psychiatry and to hospital psychiatry, not by starting to play the two systems against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211645	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211646	Yes, and that is exactly what the government did in the autumn, when we added more than 2.1 billion with the psychiatry action plan. kr. extra. I know it was before mr. Peder Hvelplund came back into the Danish Parliament, which is why I would like to use the opportunity to repeat that we are, of course, adding more resources to the psychiatry, and that is what is needed. There is also available capacity in the 150 places, and unfortunately we can see that there are a number of the regional psychiatry offers, Blåkærgård and others, which in recent years have not received the support of the local community and which are perhaps some of the offers that some of the patients who have otherwise completed in psychiatry might have benefited from.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211729	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211734	Thank you. It's for the drug dogs and body scanners thing. The problem of drugs and, as such, knives in psychiatric wards is real enough. I fully share that concern with the Minister. But I also have another concern. It is actually one that applies both in the field of psychiatry and also in the specialized social field. That is that we have a large number of vulnerable citizens, and every time we feel powerless by the way they show their exposure, the answer is always increased use of force. That's what worries me, so there's this slipped out. What is it that makes us need to use more and more power and to introduce more and more coercive measures into the institutions that we have for the most vulnerable citizens? I think that's worth an analysis. So is the Minister not going to say anything about what the Minister thinks it is an expression of?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211835	But I do not share the view that we are resorting to more and more use of force. I can, for example. look at psychiatry and the objectives we have to halve the use of coercion. Yesterday I had the pleasure of being in a psychiatric hospital in Aabenraa with Knud Kristensen, who is the country president of SIND, and looking at the experience they have gained in relation to their belt-free departments, and how, unlike other departments, they have managed not only to get a substitution against other forms of coercion, but precisely to work with deescalation and other things. That's one of the things we need to work on more. But that is not in contradiction to the fact that, for example, we are not opposed to the fact that we are in favour of the creation of the single market. on Security, where we have some of our most dangerous patients placed in judgment, also need to be able to control what comes in. We need to ensure that there is a clear legal basis for this and that body scanners can be used in court psychiatric departments, as well as in some cases in general psychiatric departments. Bringing drugs in can also destroy the treatment of some of the patients who may be deeply vulnerable to the temptation of drugs that suddenly become too accessible in a ward, for then it can put a course of treatment back. We need to protect them as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211947	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219211948	But the comparison, which we were also a few who mentioned, about such prison-like conditions, is precisely about this being treatment offer. After all, there are reasons why those citizens have been sentenced to treatment and not to be sentenced to prison. That's because they need to be included in a treatment. The relationship between practitioners and citizens is, of course, weakened by the fact that staff are given powers by this caliber. Doesn't the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212026	No, I do not agree with that, and I also have to say that we are talking about psychiatry. And yes, they are patients, but they are also patients who have committed crime and who have been placed there after conviction. I think, in fact, that when we talk about Security, where it is about routine control and ensuring a clear legal basis for it, it is absolutely necessary when we also look at the degree of danger that is around a number of patients who are on Security, correspondingly at some of our judicial psychiatric departments. That is why I do not believe that working on de-escalation and, in general, building relationships and creating a more dialogue-based treatment, as I am actually hearing the rapporteur say, is contrary to ensuring that there is a legal basis, including the times when it is necessary, to be able to use body scanners at the risk of smuggling knives or drugs or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212118	Thank you. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212121	Thank you very much. I'd like to support sir. Peder Hvelplund in the question put by Peder Hvelplund to the Minister. Because I think we need perhaps more overall political recognition that we have a lack of capacity. In the 98 municipalities there is too much variation in offers or no offers compared to settlements. There are real bottlenecks. We had long political discussions on this subject when we took a political decision on the 150 social psychiatry beds, where it was quite clear to the rapporteur that there is a bottleneck in relation to the variety of settlements, but that there is also a bottleneck in relation to the professional staff, both the social and health professionals. I would like to ask the Minister if the Minister has the same recognition. For it we need a broad political signal to municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212224	I do not see any conflict in this area. I guess that's also why I've been taken up with the bill we've dealt with together to ensure that the search criteria are adjusted in relation to the 150 seats of the capacity created there. Then you can have a big discussion about how the 150 seats are constructed, but now they are there, and then they need to be used. For it is necessary capacity in relation to our psychiatry, and so are the 65 beds filled with finished patients, as well as it is important to look at the quality requirements of social psychiatry. We are looking at this in the reform of health, where we have proposed that the quality plan for it should be close to, among other things. shall include binding professional standards for the offers of social psychiatry settlements. And it is, of course, because we have the same perception that the variation is too large and there is a need to raise the professional standard. And this also applies to the recruitment challenge; I fully agree that we have a major challenge with recruitment in psychiatry. This is also one of the points included in the 43 points of the Psychiatry Action Plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212323	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212326	I said in my rapporteur's speech that this is one of the points that we will be following very closely. We need to see what the consequences will be. Because we have also recognised another thing in the Social Democracy, and that is that the economy in the municipalities in general is too poor to carry out the many social and welfare tasks that we are transferring to the municipalities. The same applies to the five regions. After all, this is a political space, and we have to say here is one of the ideological differences. Who will spend the most money on welfare in this area in the years up to 2025? Does the Minister have any idea whether it is the red wing or the blue wing that will?
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212408	Yes, please! Then I think we are approaching something that is next to the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212414	Yes, I think it is a little beside the proposal, but one can at least say that if we look at what this government, together with the Danish People's Party, has done in relation to the municipalities' economy, and in relation to the fact that we have raised the health economy, then we are somewhat better than the former Social Democratic-led government when it comes to the service growth framework and other things. And if we look forward to 2025, our room for manoeuvre is at least as much as the room for manoeuvre that the Social Democrats are touring around with. And that is why it is a question of the will to give priority to health care. We have shown this while we have been in government, that is to say that we have the will to give priority to health care; we also do so with the psychiatry action plan and with the agreements we have made with the Danish People's Party in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212456	Thank you to the Minister for Health. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190219212508	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 20 February 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
