ParlaMint-DK_20190124100020	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Ellen Trane Nørby): Bill no. L 141 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Authorization of Healthcare Workers and Healthcare Workers). Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on making it compulsory for companies to exercise the necessary care in the field of human rights and the introduction of effective remedies). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing of Sjúrður Skaale, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 25 January 2019 onwards he can again meet in Tinget. Henrik Old's duties as a temporary member The Folketing shall cease to exist as from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100140	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100146	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100225	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100232	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. voted 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and 1 EL (by mistake), against 0, abstentions 8 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100315	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100321	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100403	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100410	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100448	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100455	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 87 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100544	I think I'll just wait a moment for everyone who isn't supposed to be here to leave the Chamber. We need a little quiet, because we are now moving on to the second reading of L 132. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100638	It has to be quiet now! Members who are not going to take part in the debate should leave the Chamber if they cannot be quiet. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100715	The debate is open. It's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124100733	Thank you. Let me start by stating that the government is firmly and unequivocally in favour of promoting nuclear safety in Europe. As a natural consequence, therefore, the government also believes that Denmark should remain a member of the Euratom Treaty. It is simply simplistic to present Euratom as a question of for or against nuclear power. Euratom is about much more than the promotion of nuclear energy. It is about research, it is about security, it is about the supply of nuclear materials to, among others. health care. Whether you support or oppose nuclear power, nuclear power is part of the European energy supply today. The government fully supports the principle in the EU that each Member State decides on its own energy mix. But of course this must be done in a safe manner. We therefore have a common interest in having a high level of safety in the management of nuclear energy. We will ensure this best through European cooperation. Furthermore, membership of the Euratom Treaty does not conflict with Denmark's priority for renewable energy. On the contrary, the government has worked for ambitious targets for renewable energy in the EU, and with the energy agreement Denmark will continue to be a green pioneer country. Denmark has delivered on the green agenda, and under this government the share of green power was 63 per cent. in 2017. The government's position is therefore justified by three factors. Firstly, a safety risk in accidents from nuclear power stations is, of course, a cross-border one, which goes without saying. That is why we should also engage in cross-border cooperation in order to improve nuclear safety in Europe. That is true, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Euratom experts help to close these nuclear power stations properly. For example: committed Bulgaria, Slovakia and Lithuania to shut down eight nuclear power stations by their membership of the European Union. Through Euratom, the EU is now supporting the decommissioning of the works. This improves security in the countries and throughout Europe. It is in Denmark's interest to continue to support the decommissioning of these old nuclear power plants. Secondly, as a member of the Euratom Treaty, Denmark is also a member of the Euratom Supply Agency, which administers the rules governing the import and export of radioactive materials. This is among other things. materials on which our healthcare is dependent. It is in everyone's interest to maintain the Agency in order to ensure that radioactive material is stored and transported safely. Thirdly, the Euratom research and training programme ensures that information on safety, radiation protection and research in medical applications is exchanged. This knowledge sharing contributes to our safety and our health. This includes the ambitious research programme ITR, which can ultimately lead to more climate-friendly nuclear energy. However, it is not realistic that a research project of the size of the ITR could be carried out by a single country. Euratom provides us with the framework for participating and benefiting from the results. I must also stress that we in Denmark do not want to hinder research into any form of energy technology. To sum up, Euratom strengthens nuclear safety. It supports research into new forms of energy and manages the supply of materials to health care. It is activities that are in line with Denmark's interest in a safe and innovative Europe. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101121	There are a few comments. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101126	We can look at the expansion of nuclear power that is also taking place in the European Union. We have seen that a nuclear power station is being built in England, Hinkley Point, and we can see that it only happened because the European Union allowed a very large loan to be made. Then you can see that there will be a nuclear power station which will have a public support requirement of 77 cents per 35 years. kWh. And then you can see that there are wind turbine projects along the way, which are decided and are being realized where the support needs are below half. In other words, we are in a situation where we get much more renewable energy per year. invested in offshore wind farms rather than investing in nuclear energy. The one who, what is to be said, continues to invest in nuclear power is, of course, the one that we are thus helping to support through the European Union. Can the Minister not see that there are parts of the aid that should not be given because we should not be focusing on the development of nuclear power?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101227	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101229	As I said at the outset, I am quite neutral in terms of energy types. I do not have the same ideological resistance to nuclear power, but it must of course make economic sense. Not everything in the European Union is perfect, which is why you can pick out a corner and say that this is a wrong way to support. But from there and then to do what Enhedslisten is proposing here today, with the consequences it has, in relation to the research and cooperation that is in an area which will, of course, have cross-border consequences if things go wrong, I think is simply a wrong move.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101304	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101305	Well, I see some sense in the fact that there may be support for the decommissioning of a nuclear power station. But frankly, the offshore wind turbines we are running for in Denmark, we ourselves are going down without EU support. So I think there's something wrong with this. Then I would really like to know whether the Minister still has the position that he held in the final debate in the Danish Parliament in 2011, when it was aired that there could well be a nuclear power station in Horsens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101337	Yeah, totally. I do vouch for what I said in 2011, that is to say, understood in this way: if it makes sense. If it is the most environmentally friendly form of energy, if research is to point in that direction, then I have nothing ideologically against it. If the aim is to limit CO2 if you can do so in a safe way, in a way that is far, far more secure than that and miles away from what was done in ancient Eastern Europe under the socialist regimes over there, but in controlled forms, then it is clear that we must be open to it. But is that going to happen? No, that's never gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101416	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101419	I therefore agree with the Foreign Minister that when it comes to helping to close down the completely obsolete nuclear power stations in Eastern Europe, which were also promised when those countries entered, we cannot simply run away from that promise and from Euratom's work in that area, just as we need to research how we can close those plants in a more responsible way. However, the part which, as such, is half of the budget, which is about providing a very special research by the European Union for the exact development of nuclear power, which has at least now been supported for many, many decades, and which has not developed at all cost, while renewable energy is now half as expensive. In fact, you give twice as much support for a-power today than you do for renewable energy. One might well ask oneself: is it a public task to favour one technology over all others within the European Union and to give it exactly research support and not on a neutral basis? Now that everything has to be reviewed there will be a revision of Euratom, as was also mentioned. Denmark could not work for that part to be taken out, so that we should not give support to one technology? It must, if I may say so, be the market itself, and it points in one direction, namely renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101536	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101538	I actually think that makes a lot of sense. After all, I am in favour of energy neutrality and, of course, I am in favour of support. But that also raises a question, of course: is this a position that can then be drawn all the way through, including on the left, including the Radical Left? We have the discussion about electric cars in Denmark. There I hear that there are a lot of people who want special electric cars to be exempt from registration fees, and that is, of course, to favour one form of energy over other forms of energy, other fuels, in relation to car technology. I understand that's okay when it's your own favorite technology. I have said from the outset that if anyone is prepared to help finance it, I am in favour of it. We can find funding for electric cars to have a registration fee of 0.0 per cent for all eternity. The big problem is to obtain a majority in the Folketing, which helps to support that part, because when the money is to be found, you would rather spend it on welfare in the public sector, yes, we would even like to give it extra support on the way, because it is clear that it is a better technology from the point of view of environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101643	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101644	I think that the last part of the Foreign Minister's speech is on the brink of today's motion for a resolution, but it has to be quite clear from this that we have always advocated a radical shift in car taxation in a technology-neutral way that is technically rewarding CO2 so we would very much like to do so. We're just waiting for the government to set up a commission that won't bite to fuck before the election. We're sorry. We'd like to bite to fuck now. That word stands. A question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who in the past has made himself a great advocate of force: is there also a recognition in what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said today that power has actually become a very expensive technology in relation to, for example, energy? wind?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101732	Yes, of course there is. That is the situation. I think that the price of some fields goes all the way up to four times as high. So we don't have to discuss that at all. That is absolutely right. This might then indicate that it might be a good idea to research it to see if you could do it more effectively. Because if it comes to the question that the objective is to have limited CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101802	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101805	As Euratom is right now, it is divided into two. One part is about disarmament and disarmament and, in fact, about helping to pull some of the old works apart. I believe that a united Parliament is in favour of this being resolved. The second part is definite research into a-power. And that is not technology-neutral when you choose to set half the budget aside for one form of technology, and I just want to ask a question. Because I have noted in negotiations with the Liberal Alliance in the field of energy that otherwise the Liberal Alliance supports technology-neutral research. Isn't that true in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101841	Yeah, that's true in this area, too. I have answered that in relation to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101846	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101847	Okay, good. That's not exactly what I heard in that answer. I think the Minister spoke out of it, but it is fine that I have just misunderstood it. If the Minister then says that this is also the case here, does that mean that in future the government will work to ensure that the half of the Euratom budget is actually removed and put into general energy research?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101911	We will work for as much neutrality as possible in the aid schemes that are provided. I think that's the only right way to do this. It's a real liberal way to have an approach to this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101921	Thank you. There will then be no further brief comments and we will start with the rapporteur's series. Sir. Jens Joel, Social Democracy, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124101942	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we have an old decision in Denmark not to use nuclear power, nor is it a secret that we in the Social Democrats will not vote in favour when the European Parliament votes to give direct support to nuclear power. However, I also think that the Enhedslisten, with their proposals today, is taking a step too far if we want to repeal the Euratom Treaty for precisely the reasons that the Foreign Minister has also mentioned, namely the half of Euratom's work, which is about security, about the removal of old, deserving works, about ensuring that the countries that have chosen to use nuclear power can either get out of it or be safe while they are using it, and I believe that we actually have an interest in that from the Danish side. That is why we do not think that the Enhedslisten is taking the right lever here, if it is to be said, by proposing the abolition of Euratom. It has also been indicated in the Foreign Minister's speech that there is reform work on slipping. The Commission has simply said that a proposal for a revision of Euratom will be presented. Austria and Germany, which are some of the countries that have also embarked on one, can be said to be less atomic-friendly in recent years, have said that they would like to go into that reform work. Frankly, I also think that Denmark should do so, but with the aim of ensuring that the support that we use to develop new and better technologies should not favour certain types on the basis of an old historical principle that nuclear power should have its own support programme. It must be freely available to the renewable energy sources that we have invested more in Denmark, but also in relation to the countries that have chosen to use nuclear energy. After all, it is a principle in the European Union that countries must decide for themselves what their energy mix is and that they themselves have had the opportunity to do so. That is also why we in Denmark have not looked to Brussels and let them interfere in whether we wanted nuclear power. As far as the countries which choose to use it are concerned, of course we have an interest in them doing so in the most secure way possible, and that works, when they are earned, are also being tampered with in a proper way. So that is why we think there is an element of Euratom's work that is important and that must continue, and that we also want to welcome and press for the Danish side to seize the opportunity, if it is to be said, of revising the Euratom Treaty to make it even better, so that it does not become blind historical support for a particular technology, because it has been so for many years in Europe. Because nuclear power does not deserve that; on the contrary, there are a great many renewable energy sources which deserve a greater backlash from the Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102245	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102249	Thank you. In other words, the position of the Social Democrats is that it would be helpful to ensure that the part which goes to research into new nuclear power could be removed from the earmarked amounts in the European Union and that Denmark could thus save perhaps 100 million. kr. in direct contributions to nuclear power and that the funds instead should go for the development of renewable energy. Is this how I should understand the rapporteur, and could it be something that one could land a report on, in other words, requiring the government to go down into the European Union and support reform processes that reduce overall support?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102333	As I said, we have voted against it ourselves when, as in the case of nuclear power, there have been operational appropriations, because we do not want to contribute to nuclear power. However, it is clear that there is also some research aimed at developing new nuclear power, and there is some research aimed at increasing safety. There will, of course, be some of the research that we also have an interest in continuing to do, that is, the one that concerns safety. So I think, and I would like to make a commitment, that we in the committee should discuss whether we can already qualify what we can ask for when we have a revision of the Euratom Treaty. For the way it works today, the Social Democrats think that there are plenty that can be criticised. What is the problem with the Enhedslisten proposal is, in fact, that it is proposed to abolish the whole package, where there is part of the current effort that is actually necessary from our point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102424	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102427	I would like to hear whether the rapporteur is impressed by this technological development, which has led to renewable energy competing with the economy and has also outperformed nuclear power in terms of the speed with which new capacity can be set up. What you set up in England may take 12 years to build. What is going on in Finland, I do not know what ends up with, but it is for more than 20 years that we have been doing this. And on the other hand, you can have a wind turbine offer, and then 3-4 years later there's a big park that really bats something. Does the rapporteur not see that nuclear power does not belong to the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102504	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102505	The rapporteur can see that, and I think the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have been able to see it since the mid-1980s, when we in Parliament decided that we should invest in something else. It is indeed gratifying and deeply impressive that this development has taken place in relation to renewable energy. It can be said that, fortunately, we are being helped by market forces. What we must then do is to ensure that the nuclear power stations that exist in the other countries are operated safely so that we do not risk accidents and, moreover, we must ensure that our programmes are modernised so that we do not support nuclear power which is not sustainable either economically or environmentally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102546	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102556	I should like to begin by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution before the authors of the motion for a resolution. Euratom cooperation dates back to 1957 and forms part of EU cooperation. But it is from a time when nuclear energy must be seen as the form of energy of the future, and that is why it was considered important to research it then. Since then it has lived a life in which this nuclear research programme or programme has at least not been thoroughly revised. But it has to be said that the time has run out of the view that nuclear power is the energy form of the future. Since then, it has been found that there are significant safety problems, significant waste problems, but also that nuclear energy is expensive in relation to the alternatives available. This has also led to the Danish Parliament deciding about 35 years ago that nuclear energy should not be included in Denmark's energy planning. It is a resolution with which the Danish People's Party agrees, and we see it as illogical that we in Denmark are part of the Euratom cooperation and that we contribute 150-200 million. kr. annual to the financing. It is therefore money that could have been spent more rationally on other purposes, for example. on research into renewable energy, of which we in Denmark use quite a lot and also plan to use even more in the future. That is why it would be sensible to spend the money in this way. That is why I must say that we in the Danish People's Party would very much like to see the Euratom Treaty either renegotiated or repealed in a way that would put an end to direct support for research into an energy form that fewer and fewer EU countries want to use. That is why I must say that we in the Danish People's Party expect to support the motion for a resolution when it comes to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102813	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102816	Thank you for that support. When I look at the outlines of what has been said so far, I can imagine that a report could be produced which very specifically sets out a text requiring the government to reduce the aid given to nuclear power, so that Denmark should work to ensure that the development of nuclear power is not supported, because it has proved to be a far too expensive solution. Furthermore, we have not found lasting solutions to the waste problem either. So I think it's a good line that the Danish People's Party is putting in this case, and I'd like to sign for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102858	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102900	Well, I can only thank you for your recognition. It is not often that the Danish People's Party stands with Enhedslisten about so much, but in this area we obviously have a common understanding that the money is better spent on other than nuclear research. So I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102919	Thank you. There is a new rapporteur to come up here. It's sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124102929	Thank you. Since the rapporteur of the Left has been prevented immediately, I have promised to take up the rapporteur's speech. It reads as follows: the Enhedslisten wants the government to stop support for nuclear power in the European Union and to work for the repeal of the Euratom Treaty. There are several reasons why the Left cannot support this. As I read the proposal, the Enhedslisten has, firstly, made the Euratom Treaty a question of whether or not nuclear power is supported. It seems to be a somewhat simplistic presentation and rather far from reality. Secondly, the Treaty is about promoting nuclear safety. The Enhedslisten himself mentions that there are 14 countries in Europe, including Denmark's neighbouring countries Sweden and Germany, which use nuclear energy. That is why it is in the interests of Denmark and Europe in particular that we work together to ensure as high a level of safety as possible in the management of nuclear energy. Thirdly, research and the costs referred to in the motion for a resolution are very much aimed at the safety, radiation protection and decommissioning of old works. We in the Left also believe that this is in Denmark's interest and that in no way conflicts with our ambitions in the green area. Denmark is a green forerunner country, and the government is working hard at home and in the EU to create ambitious goals that enable us to deliver on the green agenda. Whether you support nuclear power or radioactive materials or not, it is a very large part of the European energy supply, and our health care services at home, for example. Depending on radioactive materials. It is therefore the clear position of the Left that Denmark is best placed to be part of the Euratom Treaty, which is why we cannot support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103123	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103131	The resolution here contains a very concrete discussion on the Euratom Treaty and a more fundamental discussion on nuclear energy slash nuclear power in general. In the first debate on Euratom, the position of the Liberal Alliance is that we must, of course, support the Treaty on the Danish side. We will have to if we want to strengthen nuclear safety and if we want to strengthen and improve nuclear energy research, and we will, of course, do so. Because nuclear power, whether we like it or not, is part of the European and global energy mix. That is why we also need to develop the technology and make it safer. It is a question, among other things, of course. also about our own security at home. This requires research, and it is one of these. What Euratom is about. That is why we must continue to support the Treaty. If we then talk more generally about nuclear energy and nuclear power, then we have to note that there is no political support to change the parliamentary resolution, which has also been mentioned a few times earlier from the platform today, that is, the 1985 parliamentary decision that nuclear power should not be part of the Danish energy planning. That it looked familiar to me at the moment. ed 3% Denmark's energy consumption, which is covered by nuclear power, is another matter. In the Liberal Alliance we would like more CO 2 2 among others. That is why we have also fought in the government to open up more research into thorium technology, which can of course be a very interesting technology in this respect. Perhaps not necessarily at home because of the previous parliamentary decision, but so globally. Overall, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution, and I have promised to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and to say that the Conservative People's Party does not support the resolution of the Enhedslisten either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103406	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103410	The Liberal Alliance wants more CO2 and where is it that you get the most for every penny you invest? It is the case that England is the most easy place to make the comparison, because they have a nuclear power station that is being built, and they have some offshore wind farms that were on offer a few years ago. There we are just looking into a reality where public support for nuclear power is more than twice as expensive as from the offshore wind farms that have been put out to tender two years ago. And now we have the prospect, with the supply seen in Denmark and Germany, that renewable energy in the form of offshore wind farms will be even cheaper. So we are faced with nuclear power being a complete source of energy for the past, and if you look at what it costs to create new plants, you can see that this is an expensive solution. Does the rapporteur not see that there has been no technological development with nuclear power, which allows it to compete with future offshore wind farms?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103515	Fortunately, very major technological developments are taking place today and perhaps even in some situations technology leaps in all technology areas when we are talking about energy production. I personally, and indeed the Liberal Alliance as a party, of course, very much appreciate the market development that has been in relation to price and the supply we have seen of renewable energy at home. After all, sun and wind on land are the latest we have seen, with some very competitive prices. We in the Liberal Alliance very much appreciate this and, as the situation is at home, it is probably right, as the proposer says, that we get the most for the money when we talk CO2 wind. Those conditions may be different elsewhere, and at least politically, it is not something that says on my job description that I have to interfere in what energy mix you choose in England.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103621	I therefore believe that we should interfere in what energy development is in the European Union, including in the fact that it is the European Union that is negotiating on behalf of Denmark in relation to our climate objective, and what the European Union, as a whole, can offer, and there is much to say with the research funds that exist in the European Union, that renewable energy is given priority over nuclear energy and thus can have far more CO2 Can the rapporteur not see that we are getting more for the money by researching renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103702	There is nothing wrong with the rapporteur's view. In this context, it is also possible to discuss it in relation to the European Union and its strategy, and indeed now the British position with regard to the European Union, which is rapidly approaching a date that can be landmark in this regard. In relation to research and development, as I said before, we very much appreciate the fact that there are major technological developments, technological leaps in all areas. And the energy mix we have at home is one thing. The energy mix you may need elsewhere in the world can be quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103744	Thank you. We need the next rapporteur, and that's Mr. Knox. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103752	Thank you. We are in a fantastic time in the history of the world, when we only need to think about renewable energy. All investments we are making now and forward should be about replacing old fossil technologies and nuclear power with renewable energy technologies. That is why I welcome the proposal from the Enhedslisten. That time has elapsed from the European Union and from the Euratom Treaty and the programme in which we need to invest in both research and loan models and other instruments to develop nuclear power. Nuclear power is one of the technologies we need to dismantle, and that is why we support the proposal from the Enhedslisten. Then I am aware that there are other elements in the Euratom programme which are also about security and decommissioning, but these elements can be taken into account in a different context. I share the concern that the Euratom programme could be revised so that only the necessary elements are left, so I really think it is more sensible to go to shut it down because it has this particular, one-way focus on nuclear power. And then you can get the other elements in other ways around the safe operation of the old nuclear power stations and safety aspects about the use of radioactive elements in, for example. health care. So we expect to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103940	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124103944	Well, thank you for the support, because these are the considerations that can be made about whether we in the European Union are getting something for the money, if we are helping to support the closure of some nuclear power stations, or if we end up in a situation where the fact that some plants are going on is a safety risk. It's easy for me to follow. That is also what could be at the heart of whether a majority could be found for a report that the half that concerns the development of nuclear power is the part that we should be working for here, in other words that Denmark does not think that the European Union should contribute to that part. Can the rapporteur see an opportunity for us to land such a thing as something that could obtain a majority and which is not the very best but which is nevertheless a step on the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104034	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104036	Yes, I can clearly imagine that we could land a report that has that focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104045	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104052	Thank you very much. It is a completely relevant discussion that Enhedslisten brings up here. In many ways, Euratom is an outmoded construction, especially since technology has shown itself, despite decades of research, not to lead to the breakthrough, either in terms of security or in terms of economics, as was imagined when it was made. However, the Radical Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here, and I think it is actually an excellent idea to go for a report. The fact is that the part that is about standing by our joint promise to secure the closure of the old Eastern European works is all I can imagine but that the Enhedslisten also has a wish to actually happen and that we are also contributing to it with Western technology, as was promised when those countries joined the European Union. So we certainly won't be helping to shut down like that. With regard to the part which concerns research into greater safety, including, of course, the use of radioactive materials outside nuclear power, in other words in the health sector, etc., we think we can make sense as well. Because, unfortunately, we have some nuclear power plants in Europe and there are security problems and we have a common interest in resolving them. On the other hand, I have to say that I am fully in line with the Enhedslisten when it comes to the half of the funds that are being used to support genuinely new research into nuclear power and fission, etc. We have been doing this for decades now, and there is no prospect of any kind of breakthrough that can boost nuclear power to something that is in line, in terms of security and economic terms, with the renewable energy that already exists today. And that part is only between 25 and 50 per cent. of the price of what a-power costs nowadays per day. kilowatt-hour. So, the fact that the European Union is specifically placing so many billions in research into nuclear energy without having similar renewable energy programmes, we also think that it is deeply good night. So we could imagine that here we are making a report in which we are imposing on the government and I really heard the Minister be positive about the same thing, since this audit comes from Euratom to have tampered with what one might call support for the research project ITAR, i.e. these 5.5 billion. kr., out of the program and target Euratom to shut down the Eastern European works and improve security. It would be a beautiful result if we could agree on that. We would very much like to take part in this, and I should like to say hello from the SF and say that this applies to them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104326	Thank you. There is a brief remark; I did not just see it because I was a little confused that SF's contribution was also covered, so I had to check that out. I'm sorry! Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104344	Well, thank you for receiving me. I think it is a very good idea to try to find a report which is well-kniting up the track, that the support given to the development of a nuclear power which has proved not to be the energy source of the future and which receives 5 billion. from the EU, given headlessly. And if you think about how much of it is Danish crowns, then it is approx. 100 million kr. What can you get for 100 million? kr.? This is how half of the aid we in Denmark expect to give to the next 800 MW offshore wind farm, which can supply electricity to households in 800,000 homes in Denmark. It's not like it's small stuff. That is why it is not small things that we can get for 5 billion. in the EU, and what could be set in motion in the area of renewable energy, by development and research, which could create more solutions more quickly. So I think it is a very good idea to try to make a report which unfolds this and which clarifies what the government should be doing in the European Union. It sounds as if, when the Danish People's Party is also on those thoughts, a majority could be made for a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104455	Well, I am pleased that the proposers will go in that direction. At least we're in on that. However, as I heard, I do believe that the government could be involved in this, because it is possible to say that a whole research programme established only for one technology, but not for others, is not exactly technology-neutral, although, of course, EU support for RE research is also being given. It is just on market conditions, I know, and that means something you apply for as a researcher, and then you can have access to it. But we can all get that figured out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104524	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124104542	Thank you. What we have been discussing here is a motion for a resolution that the Folketing instructs the government to work to stop support for nuclear power in the European Union and to work towards the repeal of the Euratom Treaty. In Denmark, we have long since said no to nuclear power. The Danish Parliament took the decision back in 1985 that nuclear power was not part of the Danish energy planning. Yet for many years we have been paying millions of dollars for the European Union's nuclear research programme, nuclear power has been receiving far greater research grants than renewable energy has, and we are in the situation now that 14 of the 28 countries of the European Union do not have nuclear power, yet they are paying countries for a joint Euratom programme. A number of European countries have begun to argue for a revision of the Euratom Treaty and, therefore, a revision of Europe's future energy policy. What's going on? Barsebäck! What's going in? Sun and wind! And that's how it turned out. However, although the echo from the demonstrations against nuclear power and the Swedish nuclear power plant 22 km from Copenhagen has long since died, something is missing. Why, year after year, should Denmark pay millions of kroner for the European nuclear research programme when you have never had and never will have nuclear power in Denmark? It was a historic day back on 29 March 1985 when it was decided in the Folketing that Denmark should not have nuclear power, and it was actually a courageous decision. At that time it was a choice between coal and nuclear power. Prior to the decision, there had been an 11-year popular campaign against the introduction of nuclear power, and this was the campaign conducted by the Organization for Nuclear Information, the OOA, and through a popular debate it came to the conclusion that something was known about nuclear power, and this was the basis for an important decision being taken here in the Folketing. There are not many who know that Denmark, since we joined the EEC in 1973, has paid for research and development of nuclear power through the EU's Euratom Nuclear Energy Organisation. It is an organisation that writes about itself that it has as its prime objective the development of a powerful nuclear industry and, according to Euratom, nuclear energy, not renewable energy, must lead Europe into a fossil-free era. These are sentences that are totally out of date. Nor do many people know that Euratom is not subject to the same democratic control as other branches of the European Union. The European Parliament does not participate in decisions in Euratom. Euratom has existed since 1957. The European Community originally consisted of the European Economic Community, the Coal and Steel Union and Euratom. I think there is good reason, with the developments that have taken place in the European Union, for a review to be carried out, and in the Enhedslisten we can see that Euratom is completely abolished. Austria has taken the lead in the current debate on reforming energy policy. Together with Sweden, Ireland, Hungary and Germany, Austria has proposed a revision of the Euratom Treaty, nuclear energy should not be given special treatment, Euratom should not be hovering over the waters of what is called the Euratom Treaty, which is almost sacred in EU law, and that should be changed. It will not be easy to get the Euratom Treaty reviewed or abandoned, but a certain optimism can be attached to Germany having recently written a reform of the Euratom Treaty into its government base. Another element that can support the call for a revision of the Euratom Treaty is that there has been a significant distortion of competition in that nuclear power is supported by EU funds. Thus, it is decisive for the launch of the British nuclear power plant Hinkley Point that in 2014 the European Commission gave the green light to a loan to the 320 billion. kr. expensive nuclear power plant. Now it turns out that this expansion is far more expensive than the offshore wind plant that England is building. We are faced with the fact that the nuclear power station that is being built will have to receive public aid of 77 cents per annum. kilowatt-hour for 35 years, and at the same time they are building offshore wind farms where there have been calls for tender a few years ago and where you end up having to give public support of 48 cents for 15 years, and then you have a offshore wind farm that will not receive support for 10 years. So we are out in something here where the support given in England for nuclear power is more than twice as great as for the latest offshore wind farms in England. If you then see what this development has been in Denmark and Germany with the latest supply, then we are faced with something where sea wind totally backfires nuclear power and where, without even mentioning waste problems, we are just where renewable energy, offshore wind farms, clearly beats the prices that nuclear power costs if you have to power in that way. Then there are also the aspects that take so long to build a nuclear power station. It's 10-12 years. If you look at Finland, they are out in something where you may not know when they will be finished with their construction. If you look at a supply at a offshore wind farm, it is in 3-4 years that you can set up new capacity with such large mills that it has a significant impact on the overall energy supply. Overall, the EU spends 10 billion. in nuclear power, and Denmark contributes 200 million in this way. From today's debate, I can see the contours of trying to land a report that says that Denmark must work to ensure that research into new nuclear power stations is no longer supported in the European Union. You had to stop the aid at 5 billion. to the ITR programme. I can also follow from the debate here the argument that it may be sensible for there to be funds to help countries to dismantle a nuclear power station. So if we could land a report that, like it contains, and I can see the contours of today, the outlines of something that could be a majority in favour, then I think it could be an important step to take, i.e. to move towards the EU spending 5 billion. less on nuclear power development, and instead of having a position that we should spend the money, the 5 billion, to develop renewable energy, which could be part of the climate commitment that we have globally and which we have in the European Union. I think that could be a good way out of it. There are probably some who might think about this nuclear debate, to reach, are they discussing it again? It is not only in Denmark that we have this debate. Seven Danish and foreign environmental organizations held a conference here at Christiansborg last year and discussed these aspects. So the debate is all over Europe, and that is why it is not a question of the fact that if the Folketing imposes a certain position on the government, then it is something that only takes place in Denmark. This is, in fact, something that is going on widely in Europe. There is a softening of and a focus on what funds are spent on research into different energy sources. I would like to thank you for receiving this, in particular thanks to the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, Radicals, the SF and the Alternative. I think it looks promising to be able to write a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124105402	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wanted to speak. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124105417	The debate is open. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124105438	Thank you. Let me start by stating that the government agrees with the political objective behind the Enhedslisten's proposal, namely that Israel should cease its settlement policy. However, the government does not agree with the means, namely a ban on imports of goods from settlements, and therefore cannot support the proposal. I'll get back to that. Nor does the Government agree with the premise of the comments on the proposal because it is wrongly stated as implicit recognition of settlements when Denmark does not prohibit imports of goods from settlements. That is not true and I would like to make it even clearer. It is the government's unequivocal position and policy that settlements are illegal under international law. The position is shared by a broad majority here in the Folketing. We do not recognise the settlements as part of Israel's territory. It is Danish and EU policy that Israel must cease its settlement policy because the settlements are illegal and because they undermine the possibility of a two-state solution. At the same time, however, Denmark also regards Israel as a neighbouring democratic country and has no intention of hindering the flow of goods from Israel. Denmark does not want a boycott of Israeli goods or goods from Israeli settlements. Neither does the European Union. It is only a year since the Danish Parliament, with the approval of the government, adopted V 30. The proposal for adoption states with seven inch nails that Denmark makes a clear distinction between the territory of Israel and the occupied territories in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2334. This distinction comes into practice, among other things. As a result, the EU and Denmark operate a territorial clause to prevent settlements from being covered by agreements with Israel. In concrete terms, this means that agreements with Israel must include a clause that cannot be applied in the territories occupied by Israel in 1967. We fully enforce this on the Danish side because it is a very concrete and visible political signal of Danish support for the two-state solution. The territorial clause also means that goods purchased in settlements cannot benefit from Israel's favourable tariff arrangement with the EU. I would also like to stress that Denmark and the government are opposed to any boycott of Israel and attempts to isolate it. The proposers refer to the ongoing process in Ireland for a legislative proposal on the same subject. The bill was dealt with on 5 December in the Irish Senate, where it received a majority, and now it has been dealt with in the House of Commons. The Irish Government is opposed to the proposal, which I fully understand. Because if the proposal is adopted, it will not be valid, as trade policy is the EU's exclusive competence. In this case, the European Commission should be expected to initiate proceedings for infringement of the Treaty. That is the crux of the matter as far as the proposal we are dealing with today is concerned. A ban on imports of goods from Israeli settlements could only be implemented jointly within the European Union, and there is no political support for this in the European Union or by the government. Denmark must follow the same EU rules as other members. This applies to Ireland as to Denmark. The government cannot, therefore, deliberately vote in favour of legislation contrary to EU law. In fact, it is no longer in relation to the specific proposal. This does not mean that the EU and Denmark are passive in relation to Israel's illegal settlement policy. There are other things we can do and what we do. There are very consistently sharp reactions within the EU circle to the continuing Israeli settlement activity and the consequences it has for the Palestinians' daily lives and for the prospects for a peace settlement. The EU's Foreign Ministers, in Council conclusions, have called for a fundamental change in Israel's policy on the occupied territories, in particular area C. The Government agrees with that criticism and expresses it directly to the Israeli Government. With last year's adoption of V 30, which refers to proposals for adoption V 53 from 2016, the Danish Parliament has stressed that settlements do not legitimise their existence or have improved economic opportunities through agreements between Israel and the EU or through Danish public or private commitments. The government is, of course, still behind that policy. In relation to Danish companies and investors, as you know, this is a political statement. No international sanctions have been adopted to prohibit investments in or for the benefit of settlements, but commitments that benefit settlements weaken the possibility of a two-state solution. Therefore, the government advises against commitments and activities aimed at strengthening settlements, and the government backs the common messages to citizens and businesses in the EU, which are precisely aimed at raising awareness of the risks associated with engagement in settlements. As with other parts of Denmark's policy relating to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we stand strongest when we stand together in the European Union. It is crucial that Denmark engages with a balance that takes its very clear starting point in EU policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124105943	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124105947	Thank you. I am pleased that the government confirms that it believes that settlements are illegal and that this is also the European Union's position, but I am surprised that the Minister is using EU trade policy as an argument in this matter. After all, it is a foreign policy issue, and it is probably Denmark that decides on its foreign policy. And there is surely a reason why the government has sent the Secretary of State to discuss in the Chamber today and not the Trade Minister. That is why I would like to ask: is it really the European Union that has to decide what action we are taking in the field of foreign policy? And how far does the EU's right to do so go? So, I mean, can we not use the tools that we have historically and traditionally had at our disposal and have sometimes also used when it has looked most hopelessly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110039	The short answer is that for me there is no doubt that this is an EU exclusive competence and that this is how we should work. That is why we would stick our heads directly into an infringement of the Treaty if we went the way that Enhedslisten recommends, and of course we as a government cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110054	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110055	I understand the rules that, if it is an attempt to break into trade policy, it is an EU issue. This is an attempt to say that we have to respond to foreign policy and try to get a process under way in relation to the settlements, and the Minister himself admits that this is a rather serious situation we are in and that it is actually going the wrong way I understood the Minister's speech. In other words, because of the European Union's foreign policy context, we are totally prevented from doing so, for example. rejecting different product groups because the EU wants to interfere? I believe that we also have a boycott on Russia and that we had a boycott on South Africa when I was younger and so on. It is surely the case that boycotts can be used as a foreign policy tool without the European Union interfering.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110150	Again I would like to say that, for me, there is just no doubt that the rules are clear in this area, and I think the questioner is aware of that as well. This area falls within the competence of trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the European Union, and therefore we cannot act alone. We are just getting a treaty case on our necks, and what have we got out of it? It is almost a counterproductive blow to the air, and who will benefit? It will almost benefit those whom Enhedslisten wants to go after in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110222	Thank you. We will start the rapporteur's line with Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110239	Israeli settlements in the West Bank are illegal and they are making the way to promote a two-state solution any longer. When goods are imported from the settlements, there is a risk of supporting the settlements, it goes without saying, and thus actually facilitating a breach of international law. It is not so complicated and is certainly also the basis for the decision taken by the European Union that goods coming from the settlement areas are not subject to duty-free treatment, which otherwise applies to Israeli goods being sold in the European Union. What is not so complicated is to read the answer to question 268 of 28 June this year from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, from which it appears and I quote: "Commercial policy is the EU's exclusive competence. A ban on the import of settlement goods could therefore only be implemented - in the legal and practical sense - jointly within the framework of the European Union. When Enhedslisten has asked that question and received it from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think we can say amazingly clear answers, but yet we are tabling a motion for a resolution such as the one we have before us today. So we must unilaterally ban the import of goods from Denmark, and when we remember the build-up of motions for resolutions which were discussed by the Danish Parliament at the request of the Enhedslisten last week, we are left with the feeling that this may not really be about illegal settlements, but that the Enhedslisten is in the process of cleaning up its fighting form towards the forthcoming European Parliament elections. There is a case here that needs to be used to scold the European Union. One could also turn it around and say: if this kind of ban is to impress Israel, it would probably be significantly better that it was a decision taken by the EU and thus includes the large European market and not only the relatively limited Danish market. Would that not be a better and more effective way to go? Social democracy cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110450	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110457	I agree that this was an astonishingly clear answer from the Foreign Minister. That is also why we have tabled the proposal here. In the years I have been a political activist, we have always appreciated the fact that we are using the tools that are possible. South Africa might have lived under apartheid much, much longer if the boycott instrument was not used at the time it was used, even with the recommendation or, in fact, directly with proposals in this Chamber from the then parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party. In relation to whether it is an EU debate or not, I would say that, yes, of course, it is an EU debate if the minister says that the EU will prevent us from doing so. But does the Social Democrat rapporteur not think that it is a fair and proper tool in foreign policy that certain groups of goods can be excluded from certain areas if that is the only way to get the party you want to react to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110553	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110557	Social democracy is of the opinion that various forms of sanctions are extremely relevant in foreign policy, both trade sanctions, such as those we currently have against, for example. Russia, North Korea and other countries, and we also believe that sanctions in the form of individual sanctions against people such as Russia, North Korea and other countries. What we have in relation to certain Iranians and others is relevant. So, of course, it is relevant to be able to sanction. What is just the matter is that when you are in a community like the European Union and you have decided to pool your competences and decide to share decisions, you obviously have to respect it. Then you cannot say that you want to be a part of the community, but that you also want not to be a part of the community. And that is what is at the heart here, because in reality it is about Enhedslisten's dissatisfaction with being part of the European Union and not so much about Israeli settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110645	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110649	As far as I am concerned, this concerns the Israeli question and how we move forward. I do not know whether the rapporteur will tell me whether he is as frustrated as I am that Israel is systematically expanding its settlements day by day and making it more and more impossible, and that we stand undressed and have not actually been able to react one millimetre in the last ten years in relation to the situation that we have to try to find the tools we can to get Israel to respond to this area that we agree on. It's not enough to proclaim things. If a group of countries in Europe wanted to use that tool, I think there should be an opportunity for it. Does the rapporteur not agree with this, or does the rapporteur have other proposals on how we can react and persuade Israel to change its actions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110737	I believe that it is extremely damaging to the process in Israel for relations between the Israelis and the Palestinians that there is a group of Israeli blacks on the extreme right who are doing what they can and religious fanatics who are doing what they can to prevent the creation of a lasting two-state solution and a lasting peace between Israel and Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110808	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124110815	Thank you. Now we are talking again about Israel. I've done that a few times now, and it's very exciting every time. I get once again such a feeling that it is Israel that is being tried into the great villain in the Middle East, and again the revolutionary Danish left is trying to create a mood so that we can punish Israel. There can, of course, be widespread talk of countless UN resolutions and the question of international law and of the legal force of UN resolutions and so on. and so on, but I would just like to take a calm look at the proposal that has been put forward, namely on the ban on imports from the settlement areas. I come to think that in my 31⁄2 years as a development rapporteur I have repeatedly come across the basic rule of development policy that if you want to create stability, prosperity and the future in an area, it is about attracting investment so that some jobs can be created and produced, so that some families can get a turnover and spend the money to create a family and a future, and whatever else you can do. It is simply the golden rule everywhere when we talk about development policy. But exactly when it comes to the settlements and Israel, the opposite is the case, because then you will withdraw money from the territories and you will make life as difficult as possible for settlers and for Israelis and for Palestinians. And I wonder if Enhedslisten does not actually shoot himself in the foot by proposing a boycott, in other words a ban on imports. Is it not the case that those who will be hit the hardest by a possible ban on imports will be the Palestinians themselves? And how can this help the Palestinians to have something similar to a future? And how can it contribute to peaceful relations between Palestinians and Israelis? It's just a mystery to me. I think we could talk about this at length, but I would just like to conclude that, on that basis alone, the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111042	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111046	Yeah, they're shocked. Is it the policy of the Danish People's Party that it is quite okay what Israel is doing in the West Bank? Is it quite incomprehensible that this is an invader who moves businesses and people into an area contrary to all rules? Try to rewind and use the same logic in 1940-1945 in Denmark. At that time Denmark was an occupied area and there were some international rules that we maintained. They have been expanded since. Is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that what Israel is doing is quite okay and that they actually benefit the Palestinians in the West Bank by making settlements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111127	I am sorry: I do not agree with this rhetorical framework set by the rapporteur. I am quite specific about what will actually happen if these imports of goods from Israel are banned from these areas of dispute, and I believe that this would mean starvation of the area. I believe that this would mean greater harm to both Palestinians and Israelis, with greater uncertainty and with greater conflict. It is no longer, and it cannot be taken as an expression of what the Danish People's Party thinks is right in one context or another. I would simply like to take a calm and calm view of the specific motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111204	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111207	Now I asked the rapporteur whether he thought that what Israel is doing in the West Bank was okay, and if he meant it, perhaps it was also a good idea that we were doing something to change the situation. But I would like to ask another question. Let us then say that we disagree on this and that the Danish People's Party believes that it is okay that Israel does what they do. But is it generally okay for the EU to decide what tools we use in Danish foreign policy? That is also in this question, because I can now hear from the Foreign Minister that we must not do that at all. We must not even make a trade boycott of West Bank goods if we want to. But is it not generally okay that it is the Folketing and us who decide what tools we use in our foreign policy, or should the EU decide it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111253	I would then, perhaps a little surprisingly, come a little to the rapporteur because I think it is nonsense that the European Union should dictate who we are dealing with and where we buy goods or where we decide not to buy goods. So I can actually follow the rapporteur there. If we in Denmark decide that we do not want to buy goods from Iceland or Peru, then I think we should be allowed to decide that. I would like to extend this far to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111317	Thank you. We move on to a new rapporteur, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111327	Thank you. Now we are going to discuss Israel again, I was almost saying − because we have done that sometimes. This does not mean that it is not an important debate, because it is of course, but I do not think that the issue has changed. As both the Socialist rapporteur mentioned, but also the Minister mentioned earlier, we do have some EU rules in this area which mean that the whole discussion about whether Denmark should impose an embargo on Israeli settlement goods is a very, let us call it theoretical discussion, because in practice we cannot do so. What if we could do that, would that be a good idea? There is my answer that I do not actually agree that it is. I think that if we go in and look at the whole situation that we have at the moment, it is very, very important that, on the one hand, we talk about the Israeli Government having a large number of challenges with illegal settlements that continue and their unnecessary repression of civil rebellions, etc. It is very important that we talk about it - and so do we. On the other hand, it is extremely important that we stick to the fact that on the Palestinian side there are also a large number of challenges that the Palestinians themselves must deal with. I still find it extremely questionable that the Palestinians have not got their own house in order. I think it is extremely dubious that the Palestinians have nothing similar to democracy. I know that the risk is that if they then introduced some kind of democracy, they would have chosen some who would be even more radical and even more anti-democratic. So all in all, we have a frozen conflict that is just getting worse and worse, and that is why I also think it is extremely important that, in a situation like the one we are in, Denmark is doing what we are doing, along with the rest of the European Union, namely trying to balance our approach to it, so that it has a dialogue with both sides and has a dialogue, where we also tell both parties where it is we think they should change the situation. So all in all, we are always happy to discuss such an important issue as it is in relation to Israel. We cannot in any way support the proposal from the Enhedslisten and will therefore say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111554	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111558	The last half of the speech I was a little surprised to hear, so if we could, we shouldn't do it anyway. There are several questions in it: does the rapporteur of the Left not think that one day he would become Foreign Minister that it would be advantageous to have that tool in the box when he was going to conduct foreign policy, that is to say that sanctions could be imposed on countries, including groups of countries, without the EU preventing it, and until the whole of the EU could do so? What would have happened in South Africa if we had not been able to sanction it? What would have happened if we had just done, as the rapporteur has said in this context: there should have been a certain balance between the large majority of the black population and the small minority of the white population who oppressed them. There is not a hundred percent parallelism in it, but using a tool is probably a right that every country has in its foreign policy. Surely it should not be the case that one can twist it and say that it is all about trade policy. This is about foreign policy. What else will the rapporteur do if he does not want to sanction? Nothing happens now except that the situation is getting worse and worse day by day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111713	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111718	First of all, it is important to get some facts into the debate as to what we are actually talking about. We are talking about Denmark's imports being expected to reach a maximum of 10 million. kr. I mean, this is such an infinitely small part that we are now really out in the theoretical discussion. I have therefore also said what importance it would have if Denmark did so too. The answer is: none other than maybe a negative meaning. Because then we would also break the balance that I mentioned in my speech is so important, namely that we ensure that we tell both parties where they are causing problems. That is why I am against it. I think it is very, very wrong to go and punish one side only when I think that both sides are accomplices to the fact that we have a frozen conflict. I agree that what is happening at the moment is terrible. I just don't think the answer is to bring out the big hammer and then only beat Israel. I think it is equally important that we also say to the Palestinians, and not least to Hamas, that they should stop their rocket attacks, which are still taking place, and that they should stop their undermining and attempts to make terrorist tunnels into Israel, etc. etc. It must stop, and we must make that clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111823	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111826	Well, almost the whole parliament agrees that the settlements are illegal. The Left, of course, supports the Foreign Minister in that view, and he also believes that it should be stopped, that settlements should be increased. The European Union even does. But when do we go from speech to action? That's what I'm asking. If we maintain the position that the Left seems to have, namely that a balance should only be maintained, what will happen then? The strong party makes it more and more impossible. At the moment, Israel's strategic plan is to make three Bantustans. In other words, when can we react and act so that change takes place? Or maybe it is not the Left's intention to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111906	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111909	Yes, but we just don't believe that there's a hallelujah solution to do it, and that's exactly where the whole debate is, there's no such solution. In other words, if we really had to do something, we should put pressure on Iran and others in relation to the support for Hamas if we really wanted to. However, there is no support for this at world level. So I just want to say frankly: there is no Hallelujah solution, and as long as there isn't, we have to continue the long tough move, which is diplomacy; and that is what we are trying to do. Is that an easy solution? No, and I am extremely pessimistic about the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111938	Thank you. Then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124111945	Thank you for the floor. As Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen has explained so well already, it is a rather empty exercise to stand here and discuss some policy measures which, as such, fall outside the competence of the Folketing, as the competence of the European Union lies. However, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has rightly pointed out, we do not therefore support the resolution, because although the powers were here in the Folketing, we believe that the European Union has properly analysed the situation. We do not support the settlement policy, but we do not believe that it is a recognition of settlements to buy goods from them, and we therefore simply believe that in relation to a country such as Israel, which is a friendly country with which we have long-standing diplomatic relations, this is the diplomatic path to take and not the path of the boycott. So, of course, we must continue with the strategy, which there is very strong support for in the Folketing and which is that we put pressure on all parties to come back to the two-state solution, but that it should be through the usual diplomatic channels. However, to sum up, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112114	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112123	Now we have proposed a rather civilised foreign policy approach: closing off goods from a particular area where we all agree that there are illegal acts that should be stopped. I do not propose military intervention or other far-reaching things, which at least the current government and previous governments have used in other countries. I propose a civilised, recognised means of foreign policy, and then the Liberal Alliance rapporteur argues that we should do just as usual, so nothing and let things happen without taking action. Is there no possibility of taking action at all, or does the rapporteur think that it is okay for the European Union to put in a blockade so that countries can act in this way towards Israel, no matter how large or small it is? And does the rapporteur really consider it likely that the European Union would interfere in this at all if we made a stop to imports from the West Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112229	After all, it is very difficult to answer how likely it is that the EU will interfere in a Danish one-off or Danish deviation from the EU line, but as far as I understand, it is very likely that the EU will act in relation to Ireland if the Irish Parliament goes ahead with a one-off relationship with the European Union. This must be taken into account. However, we are generally pleased that this issue lies within the framework of the European Union and we are pleased that the pressure is still being put away to get the parties back on the track, which I admit is relatively cold as a two-state solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112317	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112320	I believe that the rapporteur agrees with me that if we let 5 or 10 more years go, we are at least absolutely sure that there is no longer any way back to a two-state solution, because then settlements will be so massive that it will be physically impossible to make a single Palestine in the West Bank and Gaza, because it will be divided into tiny cantons, or what is called it in that region, which cannot function as a whole. That is why there is no reason why the international community, with some pioneer countries, should do something, for example. We mean it when we say that we will not accept the occupation of the West Bank; we mean this seriously and it is beyond what we think is reasonable. The second question is: if the European Union does not interfere in Ireland's decision, it will then be possible to get the Danish Government, or at least LA, to take an initiative on the basis of it, so that we can back it up and so that we become more countries acting at once, so that it can be as effective as it can possibly be when more and more countries and then finally the whole of the European Union react.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112427	We do not want to support political action that has the framework of Enhedslisten, and that framework is quite clear that this is a discussion about Israel. Of course, there are many forces in the region who do not want a two-state solution, which is, of course, the policy we want. But the starting point for Enhedslisten's discussion I have also taken part in these query debates which have already been mentioned is always a discussion of Israel and not a discussion of how to get back on track for a two-state solution at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112502	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112510	I am here today to replace our foreign policy rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, who unfortunately cannot participate. Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this incredibly important agenda. We have put forward political proposals before, and this time too we agree. In fact, a ban on the import of settlement goods was the first of the eight proposals made jointly by Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF in 2017. The crux of the matter is that we are dealing with a military occupation that has lasted for more than 50 years. Just think about it one time before we move on. All Palestinians in the occupied territories under the age of 50 have never experienced anything but military occupation without civil rights and the freedom that we take for granted every day. We must do even more internationally to launch a political process which, based on the principles of international humanitarian law, can bring peace, equal rights and, above all, the Palestinians a state and national self-determination. We are witnessing a real demographic war which, with Israel's offensive course, is taking place in favour of settlements. There is no doubt that settlements constitute a flagrant breach of the Geneva Convention and are a barrier to peace. The occupied West Bank is also filled with military infrastructure, checkpoints, fences and walls, which make it impossible for the Palestinians to have a normal day-to-day life, not to forget the desperate situation in Gaza after several wars and ten years of blockade. The Danish Government, together with the rest of the European Union, should put much more pressure on Israel to stop the settlements immediately. The United Nations has repeatedly called on the European Union to do so in particular. And in the alternative, we agree. Why do we accept the possibility of a Palestinian state being undermined before our eyes? As a minimum, we should do even more to ensure that neither Denmark nor other EU countries contribute financially to the settlement project. Both public and private actors should avoid contributing to supporting the illegal occupation and violations of human and international law that they are leading with them. The Danish Government should take further steps to ensure this. That is why we support the Enhedslisten's proposal, which requires the government to explore ways of banning the import of goods from illegal settlements. There is uncertainty as to whether this is possible within EU law, but just as Ireland has set a process in motion, we also believe that Denmark can help move the agenda in the EU by acting instead of talking. In 2016, a comprehensive Parliament with the exception of the Danish People's Party V 53, which directly calls on the government to work bilaterally and through the EU and the UN to ensure that Israel ceases its settlement policy, and that Israeli settlements do not legitimise their existence or improved economic opportunities through agreements between Israel and the EU or Danish public or private engagements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112825	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124112833	On the radical side, we actually understand that Enhedslisten is making this proposal. I do not really believe that it is a question of whether or not we are in favour of the two-state solution or respect the negotiations that exist. I believe that the settlements that are going on are destructive to the peace process, which has come to a halt. I believe that every new settlement helps undermine the possibility of finding a peaceful solution and that it is illegal in relation to international law. I see no reason in itself not to be as critical as possible about the settlements that we must allow ourselves to be at the same time as we have a nuanced approach to how the Israeli-Palestinian conflict can be resolved, and we all know that it is complicated negotiations where both parties have a responsibility. However, when it comes to settlements, we are talking about illegal settlements, which, incidentally, this Parliament has also adopted by a very large majority, and which, moreover, the European Union has adopted by a very large majority, which we should, of course, oppose. However, when we cannot support the proposal as it currently stands, it is because trade policy is an EU prerogative, as we see it. We also believe that we must rely on the legal judgement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In any case, we cannot vote in favour of anything that they consider legally impossible to do. There is also the saying that a sanction from Denmark may, in combination with an Irish one, show a split in the European Union and will have no significant economic impact on Israel at all. In other words, if it is the settlements that you want to hit, you risk not being able to benefit from it, but being able to do the opposite. I would therefore much rather end this discussion, because I fully agree that settlements should be sanctioned, with a report calling on the Danish Government to work in the European Union to tighten the sanctions on the settlement section in relation to Israel. There it is important to keep your tongue straight in your mouth so that it is not Israel as such, but the settlement policy that you want to hit. In the past, I have aired from the platform the possibility of making it possible to direct the sanction instrument specifically to the two to three financial companies in Israel, which finance and thus enable the settlements precisely so as not to turn it into an Israeli sanction, but into a settlement sanction, in other words to do so specifically. I think that is the only thing that might be supported at some point in the European Union. However, if it is to bear something, if it is to be something that Israel has respect for, and if it is not to undermine pressure, but actually lead to pressure, it is through the European Union that this must take place. On the other hand, we would very much like to work for this and also for the government to take it with it to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113119	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113123	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Of course, I agree with virtually all the views expressed in this except on whether or not countries can respond independently. I believe that in other contexts we have split it up so that there is something called foreign policy and something called trade policy and that we have actually used these funds earlier in Danish foreign policy. I am a little surprised at what we are now being told, because I thought it could easily be split up, so that you could actually use this remedy, which is a civilized way of drawing attention to some things, i.e. injustices in the world. You shouldn't think that Israel only sees something when you make a decision. Everyone knows, of course, that this is a very sensitive issue, and also knows that good approaches and calls for dialogue are being made and so on. from the Israeli Embassy every time you speak about Israel and Palestine. Of course Israel knows where the debates are, and Israel also knows that if two countries started this policy, perhaps a third country and a fourth country could be inspired by it, and eventually perhaps also the European Union. After all, it is not the case that everything starts with nothing or a total EU decision. It always starts with someone taking initiatives and discussing it and developing strategies, whether in a small or large corner. What is the reason why Radicals will not be involved in trying to take a concrete initiative here? Because I can't come up with other initiatives or else I'd like to do it so that we could move on. Because I think action should be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113304	But another initiative could be to work at EU level. After all, there is the common position in the European Union, as there is in the Danish Parliament, apart from the Danish People's Party, that we see the settlements as illegal and believe that on this point Israel, if I may say so, is unilaterally out on the wrong ground. This could be used as an opportunity to say: should we not then try to impose sanctions aimed at the companies responsible for financing settlements? Well, I'm not saying it's on the flat hand. But I'm just saying that it's not an impossible idea with such a specifically targeted needle operation targeted the settlements, not Israel as a state, not Israel's raison d'être, but precisely the settlements. I will not exclude this from being able to bring together a majority of the countries of the European Union, and that would be a far, far more important and more heavy step than Denmark's own policy and trade policy bypassing the rest of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113402	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113406	Well, I'd like to join you in making a commitment along with sir. Martin Lidegaard and others to try to make a story that could do that. 'Cause if mr. Martin Lidegaard believes that this is an opportunity in the European Union, so I think it should be tested. For, of course, it would be strong if all the EU countries did so. Of course, it would be strong if the UN had the power to get the large majority in the UN General Assembly to act. Then we would be in a completely different situation. Let's try it. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113438	I'm glad. I am not saying it will be easy, I would like to emphasise that. But I'm just saying that if it succeeded, it would be a much stronger tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113444	Then we say thank you to the rapporteur and move forward, and that is Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113456	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution. We fully share the analysis behind the proposal. The Israeli settlement policy is totally unacceptable. It means that any two-state solution will fade on the horizon. It is unfair to the people who live in the areas and therefore what the Israelis are doing around the occupied territories is also clearly declared illegal under international law. So there is not so much disagreement here in Parliament about at least as a majority believes that settlements must be combated and opposed in every way possible. Then there is the strategy with regard to Israel, and there is the general problem that Europe does not have so many handles to move towards the Middle East. It's the United States that's riding with the climb there. Recently, it is also Russia and Iran in the Syria conflict. Europe is largely marginalised in relation to the whole Middle East problem. However, we do have one area, and that is trade policy, where we in the European Union could do much, much more than we do. That is why I am also in favour of tightening up trade policy with Israel and the agreements between Israel and the European Union, including the EU's beginning to discuss boycotts of imports of goods from settlement areas. So I think that, as a starting point, it should be an EU discussion, also because it will seem far, far stronger than if a single country does. And I think it is rather strange that the government is so unclear whether it wants to work actively in the European Union for such a stop to imports from settlement areas. I would very much urge that we, the Danish Parliament, strengthen our policy in relation to the fact that the European Union is addressing this problem to a greater extent. Then the next question, which is also in this motion for a resolution, is whether a single country can do this itself. It is a matter of strategy and tactics. As a starting point, we are somewhat concerned about this, because it is an advantage if the whole of the European Union does so. There are some rules that need to be taken as a starting point. On the other hand, we can see that Ireland has gone this way. We can also see that there is actually a discussion about whether it is possible for individual countries to go even on issues like this. It can be said that it is like two considerations for each other: it is the EU's trade policy, and then it is also the human rights situation in Israel in the settlements and the illegal practices that Israel is carrying out in relation to the settlements. You could say that's a balance that's not that easy. As Ireland has gone that way and as there is a legal discussion on this, I think we should take a positive approach to the proposal that is here. I think it would be good to have the report that has been presented here produced, also because it could qualify the debate a little, in terms of what is actually legally possible, and how tactically and strategically we can go against Israeli settlement policy to a greater extent. Because this is a completely globally important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113912	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113916	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm just gonna ask sir. Holger K. Nielsen, if it is not true that in many situations we have actually used trade policy initiatives as foreign policy, and that in fact there is a perception in broad circles and also in the EU countries that this can be done without breaking the EU's policy and exclusive trade policy. When the purpose is foreign policy, it is surely also a legal tool for a single country to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124113956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114001	In general, then, trade policy can be used in its foreign policy. It is not always wise to do so, but you can do so, and it is also used many times. Whether it has also been used in the context of the common commercial policy within the European Union, I cannot answer, but that is one of the questions we can ask when we deal with this proposal in committee and which we can take with us if we have to write a report on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114029	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114039	Thank you. We have the same question when we talk about, for example. environmental policy. There are times when the European Union interprets an environmental policy initiative as restricting free trade and freedom of movement, and that is why we have debates sometimes. Even if it is, to the best of our knowledge, an environmental policy measure, we can have a debate about it. You can do that in this case too. I believe that this is a clear foreign policy action which must lie with the full competence of each country, knowing that if all the countries could unite in the European Union for a foreign policy action using trade policy, it would be stronger than if individual countries did so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114119	Environmental policy cannot be directly compared with. After all, there is a guarantee, the environmental guarantee, which came into the EU Treaty, I think it was in 1986, so there is a legal instrument on which it can be hung. If there's this, I can't answer that directly. I think it's a little harder than that, but I think we should look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114137	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the last rapporteur. It's sir. Naser Khader, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114147	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposes that the government impose a ban on imports of goods from Israeli settlements. I don't like settlements, the government doesn't like settlements. They are illegal, that is what all the countries say, and they stand in the way of a two-state solution. It is one of the knots that must be solved before a two-state solution can be found. So we are opposed to settlements, and there is broad agreement on this among all parties here in the Folketing. We do not agree with boycotting Israeli goods from settlements. In relation to boycotting others, I would say that we are not boycotting allies, and Israel is an ally that we are talking to. That's one. The second is that boycotting is also an EU matter, and that is not something we in Denmark can do solo. That is why we do not agree with the motion for a resolution. Nor do I believe that this is a good way to be in close dialogue with the Israelis. Being in dialogue with them also means listening to us. If we suddenly start imposing an import ban, which is therefore a rather harsh sanction purely diplomatically, we will push Israel very far away and therefore the likelihood that they will listen to us will not increase. At the same time, we are weakening the European Union. It goes without saying that the European Union is significantly stronger as a player in relation to Israel if one speaks with one voice in relation to a two-state solution. Moreover, the labelling of goods from settlements has been introduced. If the individual consumer does not like to buy goods from settlements, he can avoid it. We do not need to make policies in relation to Israel and their goods. As I said, there is a broad consensus that settlements are illegal. Nearly all the rapporteurs have been up and running again and again, and we agree on this and it is an obstacle to a two-state solution, but we are not in favour of starting to boycott settlement goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114427	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114430	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Naser Khader tells us a little about how dialogue with Israel has benefited the situation; what concrete initiatives have been taken that can benefit and promote a two-state solution through the dialogue with Israel. I think things are getting worse. That's one thing. The other thing is: If there aren't options with the dialogue • which I can't see, but it may be that I'm getting smarter in a minute • what are the options? Why should there not be action in this situation? Imagine if Danish law policy was built up in the same way: that we should not let there be consequences for people who break the law, that we should rather engage in dialogue with them. Well, I guess illegals are illegals, and I guess they have to have a consequence. You can easily have dialogue while you have a firm hand and say that it has consequences if this does not become legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114533	Well, we all have a desire for a two-state solution as soon as possible. And it is going too slow, it is not going very fast when it comes to getting a peace solution that is necessary. The American administration has announced that there will be a comprehensive peace plan. We wait anxiously for this to happen. I can also turn it over and ask the rapporteur whether we are getting closer to a two-state solution by boycotting goods from Israeli settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114602	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114604	Yes, I am certainly convinced of that, and I even have several suggestions in my pocket, but there is no support for them now. We have been given clear information on this. But here we have an area where we agree that things are illegal, where we agree that settlements should be stopped and where the European Union agrees with us. In other words, we are on a clean track where we can actually take some initiatives. We cannot do that in relation to a general boycott of Israel, so I do not put forward such proposals. That is why I ask: the government agrees that this is illegal, so how the hell are we supposed to act? For in the 50 years we have never been further away from a solution to this conflict than we are now, and for every day that goes by, we are getting further away with the initiatives that are being taken now. How are we going to reverse this trend? Dialogue doesn't work in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114658	It is also a little frustrating that the peace process is not being moved forward. When you travel around the Palestinian territories of the West Bank, East Jerusalem, it is now a long time since I have been to Gaza, you can see that there is a great hope and desire for a peace agreement. There are also among the Israelis. However, I do not believe that we will reach a peace agreement by just starting boycotting goods from settlements. Moreover, I would urge the Enhedslisten to come up with a peace plan for the Israeli-Palestinian solution rather than a proposal to boycott goods that are only symbolic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114737	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124114745	Thank you to the former rapporteur for having such confidence in the influence and power of the Enhedslisten that we can come forward with a peace plan that can solve the problems between Israel and Palestine. I'm gonna chew on it first. I think it is almost a heavy task to have on its shoulders all alone, and that is why I think I will be a little pragmatic here and say at the outset that I am very pleased that we are making a report in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on how we can promote the view that we should have stopped the settlements and that we should find the ways to get Israel to act. I hope that we can meet as soon as possible and then perhaps get a working party to formulate a text on top of V 30 and V 53, so that we can put it into practice. I fully agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in that this could be a way to do it, because we have a good starting point with the decisions that are we have a good starting point in this area, because we have a relatively large consensus. It is only the Danish People's Party that says that Israel can do what suits them and we support that. I believe that Israel is currently confiscating larger and larger parts of Palestine without the Palestinians being able to do anything. The settlers are not just individuals. The vast majority of settlements, more than two thirds, are state-sponsored and state-sanctioned and tax-free and receive all possible help from the state to establish real cities and businesses and not just a tent city as it was at the beginning, or a collection of sheds. These are large, modern cities that are being built in the occupied territories. Large farms are being driven in there on land that belongs to the Palestinians, which makes the Palestinians poorer and prevents them from having a decent life where they can earn a living, that is because the Israelis take the best places, because the Israelis place themselves in the best areas, and they also seize the water on which they are so dependent when they want to farm there. This means that it is not true what the Danish People's Party says. On the contrary, the policy pursued at the moment is helping to starve the people who have the right to the land and have the right to the area, and it is actually the occupying power of Israel that is stealing their opportunity to live a decent life. Maybe DF should think about it before they kept doing this blindly about Israel. There are more than 500,000 Israelis living in Israeli settlements. Some have mentioned figures that are much, much larger, but at least these are the figures that are quite sure. Several UN resolutions state that these Israeli settlements are illegal and, as has been mentioned both by the Minister and by virtually all parties, we agree on this: it is a clear violation of international law. The UN Security Council has demanded that Israel immediately stop all settlements. For many years, a broad majority in the Folketing has had a policy to stop Israel's settlement policy, but despite international condemnations, Israel continues its enlargements and makes a two-state solution impossible. This proposal to stop the import of settlement goods could be one of the most civilised ways of doing anything besides making new resolutions and making statements and proclamations from various speaking chairs. 90% of all countries agree that this is an unacceptable situation. It's been going on for over 50 years. We have discussed Gaza in this Chamber, we have discussed Israeli incarcerations of Palestinian children, we have discussed the role of the United Nations, the role of the European Union; we have discussed BDS, in other words boycott campaigns against Israel widely understood by the government; we have discussed the refugees; we have discussed Jerusalem's status; we have discussed a two-state solution and a one-state solution; but we have only really acted to a very limited extent. I would like the European Union to act more than they do. They have acted a little bit, and they have also held back a little with privileged access to the European market for Israel, but little. As some people have also said about this proposal, these are symbolic acts that have been carried out so far. Should we look each other in the eye and try to see if we could go one step further? I think we should do that. I don't care what form it takes, as long as there's a bigger action. Finally, I would like to say that I am surprised that the government interprets EU trade policy in such a way that there is no distinction between trade policy and foreign policy. If that is the case, then I have to revise my perception of the EU's influence. The EU must not decide Danish foreign policy. We must, of course, cooperate with other countries on foreign policy, but we must, as a nation with an independent foreign policy, insist that we have the right to conduct foreign policy. I am absolutely convinced that if it is true that it is 10 million. kr. in the case of imports and exports, surely the European Union will not raise a case for that reason. I could not imagine that, especially if we have a clever foreign minister who can argue that this initiative is not a trade policy initiative, but that it is a foreign policy initiative for action. I also hope that the European Union will not interfere in Ireland's decisions in this area. I hope that Ireland and perhaps Denmark and perhaps Sweden, which in other areas has been very keen on the Israel-Palestine issue, will begin to put action behind words in order to bring about a change as well. It is at least 5 minutes in 12, as far as the possibilities of a two-state solution are concerned, and that is why we need to act more than we are doing today. Otherwise, our inaction will help to ensure that Israel gets its way completely, so that the Palestinians never do that, is it not what we want? That is certainly not what is being said when we speak with words. Of course, I would like to call on the other parties to respond to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's proposal to make a report so that we can see whether there could be an opportunity to formulate something on which we could all agree, or at least a majority. In addition to that, I would like to thank you for the debate, because I think that there is a good starting point in terms of attitude for acting in this situation, and that is, in fact, the first prerequisite. After all, there is no area around the Israel-Palestine conflict on which we are more in agreement than the West Bank, and therefore there should be an opportunity for us to take one step up the ladder so that we could sharpen the consequences of Israel's continuing to do something illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115525	Then there's a question. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115531	Thank you. After all, it was a long singular speech about all that Israel has done wrong. As the debate shows clearly, we agree with the settlements. But some of what I thought was totally absent from the Enhedslisten speech was what the role of the Palestinians in this is like. For one thing, the Israelis are doing something wrong and, yes, I am one hundred per cent in agreement with that, but do not accept the Enhedslisten at all what Hamas is doing on the Palestinian side, with repeated rocket attacks, again and again and again, against pure civilian targets, that is, against innocent people who have done nothing wrong, while also spending unnecessaryly many, many means to try to create these terror tunnels, which are still being done away, from Gaza and against Israel, so that we can get weapons smuggled in and everything else in? Does the Enhedslisten not even recognise that there are two parties to this matter and that there are two parties who are also complicit in the fact that we have a frozen conflict that we have at the moment? Or does the Enhedslisten just see that the Palestinians are totally clean and white and that it is Israel that is to blame for it all? I must admit that it would be nice to have a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115645	I agree with the position that has also been taken in the United Nations and elsewhere that it is the occupying person who has the main responsibility for finding a solution. That's the way it's always gonna be. You cannot demand of an obsessed people that they are the ones who have to solve the problem. With regard to the power of Hamas, I believe that it is above all the actions of Israel and the policies of more and more sectarian governments of Israel that have made many Palestinians feel powerless, have felt desperation, and thus elect people whom I would never vote for. Surely you cannot blame people who lie down for becoming impotent that nothing has happened over 50 years and that the Danish Government and a lot of other governments talk but do not act. I would also become impotent either I would leave the area and find another place to live, or I might be actively resisting. Moreover, we must remember that it is permitted under international law for an obsessed people to make active opposition to the possessors. It was also allowed in Denmark during the occupation of Denmark. It's allowed. I have the impression that, as far as Hamas is concerned, and for that matter also Fatah is concerned, Israel thinks it is quite fine that there is a split among the Palestinians. That's what they're really playing on. I think it is a pity and that it is really a pity for a solution if we are to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115807	Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115810	No, Hamas' actions are not legal in any legal situation, according to any rule or anything else. Because what Hamas is doing is targeting purely civilian targets. With their terrorist attacks, their missile attacks and so on, they're targeting clean civilian targets. They do so repeatedly, over and over again. It is not legal under any premise, and I must admit that I find it disgraceful that it is unfortunately not so surprising that Enhedslisten thinks it is quite okay. It's quite okay that innocent people who aren't party to this case, children as well as parents, sit in their different houses out in villages and get rockets into their heads. It's all right. Apparently, they're guilty just because they're Israelis. I find it shameful.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115857	We have repeatedly said in our statements here in the Chamber and in all our written publications that we are opposed to and reject terrorist acts against a civilian population. I didn't think I'd have to repeat that to mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. I have to repeat it every time, and I have to consider whether I should write it in as a start on my sentences. But there's a difference between a possessor and an occupied area. And an obsessed people have the right to fight the military that occupy their country at any time. I do not think they have the right to make terrorist acts against the civilian population, whether it is Hamas, whether it is Israeli sectarian groups or whether it is the Israeli state that is behind it. We have discussed this before, and there are so many nuances in this. But I think that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is going to sound very one-sided sectarian as if I had to say: well, then we can't do anything about things. I don't feel that way. I have tried here with a pragmatic solution in an area where we agree. And that's why I haven't talked about everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124115956	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I shall now suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 13:00, when we resume the debate with motion for a resolution B 48.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124125959	The sitting is resumed after a little break. The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130038	Thank you very much for that, President. In Denmark, we have rules on nature conservation, which provide a good opportunity to look after particularly valuable natural areas and landscapes, and which allow the public to experience them. Since the rules on nature conservation were introduced into the first conservation law in 1917 it has been ensured that Denmark has preserved valuable natural areas, historical landscapes and cultural historical environments for posterity. These are places like Møns Klint, Skagens Gren, Råbjerg Mile, Dybbøl and Mølleådalen, which we all know and can enjoy. The protected areas are available to all Danes and to the many thousands of tourists who come every year to experience these natural pearls. We must continue to be able to raise conservation issues in Denmark, we must continue to have independent conservation boards. Since 1937 the Danish Nature Conservation Association has had the right to raise conservation cases on an equal footing with the state, on an equal footing with the municipalities, and in 1992 the association's right to correct conservation cases was directly enshrined in the law. To raise a conservation case means, in fact, to propose a conservation of a particular area. It is the Conservation Board that finally decides whether a conservation operation should be carried out. I am quite sure that throughout history there are examples of conservation cases that should not have been raised, and I am just as sure that conservation cases have been raised, which means that the Danish people today and in the future have access to enjoy something of the finest nature Denmark can offer at all. For more than 20 years, the municipalities, the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Ministry of the Environment and Food have worked together on an action plan for conservation. The plan ensures that the three parties are moving in the same direction, so that conservation is proposed where they are most useful and where they do something that could not or only not be achieved. I believe that the action plan is a useful tool and it is a good basis for cooperation and dialogue between case travelers on conservation and on priority for conservation work. The Danish People's Party suggests that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should only be able to raise conservation cases in cooperation with a municipality or with the state, and that the process should be more democratic. In my view, the right of the Danish Conservation Association to propose conservation measures is precisely the expression of a democratic process in which the proposal is not only initiated by authorities. I think it is very good in line with the Danish association tradition that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has the right to raise a conservation case, and that it is the conservation boards that make the decision in the end. Therefore, the government does not support the motion for a resolution to restrict the right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to raise conservation matters in Denmark. One of the points in the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is a desire for an earlier orientation of the landowner if a conservation action is brought on their property. I think it is important to bear in mind the origins of a proposal such as the one we are discussing here today, because it does not just come out of thin air. It comes because there are many people who feel trampled on the toes of the special privileges of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, people who suddenly find that a conservation case has been raised on their property without being heard at all. When the Conservation Board publishes the listed conservation proposal and sends it to the pilots concerned, the pilots shall be bound by the proposal as a starting point until the matter is closed. I therefore believe that pilots should be informed as early as possible and preferably earlier than today, that is, before the proposal binds. Actually, those were the rules once. With the special privileges of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, we also have a special responsibility, and we must be aware of that. I believe that strengthening dialogue between the parties is crucial in these matters. We must take care of nature and we must treat people properly and with respect, and fortunately we should be able to find a way in which both of these things can be done at the same time. So, although the government cannot support the motion for a resolution to restrict the right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to raise conservation cases, the government's view is that the landowners should be informed early. That is why I have discussed with the President of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, if it would not be very useful to have a dialogue directly between the parties. If the pilot becomes involved in the past and thus can enter into dialogue on conservation in the past, I also believe that this will provide improved legal certainty. So I will conclude by stressing that if Denmark's Nature Conservation Association itself does not ensure that the pilot owners are informed early, the government is ready to look at a change of law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130547	Thank you. There are a number of questions. The first is from Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130552	Thank you. After all, it is not news that the government does not support the proposal. That is probably the resolution that I have ever tabled, which has been given the most mention and for the longest time before we have even dealt with it at first reading. But despite that, I know the government's position. I have a question because I would like to know what the Minister thinks about private property and I would like to know what the government understands by being informed as early as possible. It is from this point of view that when a landowner is told that there is now a conservation case, it actually takes away a whole lot of things, rights, in relation to a piece of land that has been preserved in such a good way that the Danish Nature Conservation Association believes it should be protected. So I would like to know what the Minister means by as early as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130647	The question starts with a call for me to come up with my position on private property. I'm a big fan of that. I think private property is the foundation of an incredible number of freedoms we have in Denmark. We also have a common good and we have some common good. It is true that some of them are located on private land and thus are covered by private property rights. Private property comes from the whole of this: everyone must have the right to unfold in a way that he or she now desires, so long as he or she does not thereby limit the right of others to the same thing. That is, of course, the balance here, that is, the balance between having a good one, but thus restricting the rights of others in society by treating it in a way that is inappropriate. That is why we have the opportunity to preserve nature, and I think that is a good idea. So for this, when's as early as possible? Well, as the expression indicates, as early as possible, that is, as soon as a matter of property has to be raised, you must be informed as a pilot.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130758	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130758-2	Now it is my impression that the owners of some kind of forest can be a small piece of forest or a large piece of forest, which one would like to have been protected. After all, this has been taken very good care of and certainly not dealt with inappropriately, but, on the contrary, very usefully, if one sees it from a natural perspective. And then it is perhaps a little strange, I think, on the one hand, the Minister says that he respects private property, but on the other hand he says that he actually just thinks that everyone should have access to it as long as it is something that is natural. That is how I understand the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130839-2	That's not what I meant, and I don't think that's what I said either. When we have something worth protecting, I think we should protect it. When we have some nature that's unique, we have to protect it. That's why you have the opportunity to raise these conservation cases. And the question raised here by Mrs Pia Adelsteen is, in fact, whether it should be possible at all to protect something and not so much who has the opportunity to raise a conservation case. I think it should be possible to preserve something, and I also think that the three parties who have the opportunity to raise matters today should be the ones who have it, but as I said in my speech before, this does not jump out of thin air. It comes from the fact that there are some people who feel stepped on. Mrs Pia Adelsteen has spoken to you, and I have spoken to them, and I think we should treat them much better than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130928	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124130930	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister something about the opening speech here. It is said that the rules we have make sense. In the Social Democratic Party we think that these are some excellent rules we have, for we have, of course, been protected much by the nature we have by the Danish Nature Conservation Association. And I do not think it quite came from the Minister, how serious an attack on protecting nature the Minister sees this motion for a resolution as. So, one thing is that you want to keep the rules as they are, but if this happens, how serious an attack on nature does the Minister think it will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131009	I'm sorry if I've expressed myself too mildly, gently and round. So, I mean what I said, and I actually think I made it quite clear, namely that I think it is wise, and I think it is necessary for the protection of Danish nature that the three parties who today have the opportunity to raise conservation matters should continue to have it. That's why I put a little emphasis on this, because I think that some of the beautiful nature areas we have today, we wouldn't even know that we would have missed out on if those conservation cases hadn't been raised by the Danish Nature Conservation Association. That is why I think it is important to maintain this right. I think it is a good right to have, and I also think it is fine in line with the Danish tradition of association that we organise ourselves in the communities where our interests can be heard, and then we let them hear together. At the same time, there has to be this balance, where special privileges follow a special responsibility, and you have to be aware of that, even when you are the Danish Conservation Association; and I think you are.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131110	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131112	The reason why I am asking is, of course, that, in the fact that the government is composed of several parties, there has been a little speculation as to what the attitude to this is actually in the various parties that form part of the government. And that's why it's good to have a clear message, given how important it is for the minister to think that DN has this protection option. Then I would also like to ask the other part of it, namely that somebody is still beating it up, so if DN is not doing well enough with the dialogue, then you are ready to legislate. Can't the Minister elaborate on that? Well, what does that mean? How fast do you have to deliver on it? What is the Minister planning in this regard, in other words, in view of the fact that we have this threat at the end of the day that we are prepared to legislate differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131202	I'm not planning anything, because I don't think that's gonna be necessary. This faith has been strengthened by the president of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, for they can also see that this comes from something. You can see, of course, that there may be some people who have not been treated quite fairly, and they also have a desire to ensure that they do so in the future. So I have a very definite suspicion that the Danish Nature Conservation Association will ensure this involvement. And then it's more like an educational tool that if you can't find out for yourself, then I'm quite sure that in here we have an interest in treating people properly so that we can agree that people are being informed in good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131243	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131245	Thank you. I would also like to start by saying that I really appreciate this tool. I think it is a strong democratic tool we have here, about conservation. I, like, have two questions about giving previous insights into the process. I think that the Minister is also aware of the situation in which we are making a legislative proposal or a political proposal, and if, in this situation, you would have been pressured to say from the very beginning that we are now thinking of doing this without having it described at all yet, that would be a rather difficult situation. Does the Minister not agree that it can be very difficult to define when early enough and that if it is too early, you are simply inside something where you do not know what you are talking about yet, because it takes a long time to develop a proposal? Then there is the other thing: you can sometimes have a case where you have a presumption that pilots could destroy something of the nature that could be protected if pilots know it too soon. So there's that concern too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131355	I think we have a number of different situations. There are the situations that Mrs Pia Adelsteen also mentioned earlier, where something has been so well taken care of that one says that it must indeed be preserved for posterity. And this has given rise to conflict in some places. Now there's something about Vejle Ådal. I think it is a good place to start talking to each other, to express concern about what you are going to do and what you are going to do. This has been managed by the local authorities, by the municipality of Vejle, in an excellent and excellent way, I think, and it is actually felt that no one has any reason to interfere. That is one type of situation. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see a situation in which the pilot cannot be informed. Mrs Pia Adelsteen also mentioned the matter of private property. Well, if sir... Christian Poll has a piece of land, that's sir. Christian Polls, and if anyone has to be informed of other people's plans and intentions with that piece of land, then it's sir. Christian Poll and it must be done in a jiffy. I think that is fair enough. So, of course, we have to secure this right. I think that is an important right. I also emphasized that, but I also think that there is the decency of treating people who own a piece of land properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131515	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131516	Thank you for the good answers. I would also like to hear whether the Minister cannot confirm that there are firm processes with very open consultation and dialogue once the proposal has been presented and that those processes allow pilots to intervene both in the further process and, for example, in the future. I would also like to ask for compensation, and that this kind of thing should also be given in these cases. So there is, in fact, an open democratic process once the proposal is in place, and it can be difficult to talk about a proposal before it is, as it were, described what the proposal is about. So that way, I think the system is well-designed as it is today. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131603	So we're just not quite agreed on that, and peace be with it. So, as I also said in my speech, this does not arise entirely from nothing. It comes because some people have felt trampled on their toes. It comes because some people have only been informed that conservation proceedings have been brought on their property once the case has been raised without being heard and feels run over. And I don't think it's fair that you should feel run over when you're standing on your own property. I fully agree that there are a lot of democratic and legal processes put in afterwards, but there may be a risk of being a little late in the process. And I think that as the owner of a piece of land, you have the right to be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131647	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131651	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the meeting he has had with the President of the Danish Nature Conservation Association gave rise to a rather rapid response when it comes to informing the landowners. I can see that as far back as 10 April, and there the Minister had only been a minister for a very short time, just as the President had been President for a very short time, I assume, because the National Board of the Danish Nature Conservation Association reports that they have decided that each time they raise a conservation case in an area which the first will organise a public meeting, where they will invite landowners and other interested parties to debate the conservation case. So they've already taken care of the case. And I just want to make that announcement to the Minister, because I think he will be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131745	Now it can be said that I really consider myself to be ahead of my time in incredibly many areas, but on 10 April I had not yet become a minister. I didn't do that until May 2nd, so for once, May 1st was a special day at my house. But it's just early enough. I think it is very, very fine if the Danish Nature Conservation Association itself initiates this by involving people as early as possible. I'd be sorry if you didn't do it until a protection case has been filed. That's how I felt about it. I think it is up to those people to involve them as early as possible. This is where I say it with special abilities follows... sorry, it is from Spiderman, but with special privileges also follows a special responsibility, and so it does here too. I think that the privileges are good and necessary to have with an association such as the Danish Nature Conservation Association, but I also think that one should live up to that responsibility. I think there are many examples of not having done so. There's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131852	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131854	The prospective minister and the president of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, who at that time had been president for 3 days, have solved this matter in advance, because what the main board of the Danish Nature Conservation Association says at that time is that it is when they have decided to raise a conservation case. So it is not when it has left, but when it is decided that you will raise it. So I think that with the relatively new, we can call it a decision in the Danish Nature Conservation Association, we can in future sleep calmly at night in relation to the information of the landowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131933	I think it is a good decision, I think it is a wise decision, and I think it is a decent way of treating people. I look forward to seeing that, and I hope you live up to it. I have no reason to believe otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131945	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124131947	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a good tradition that associations are invited to provide consultation answers, that they are invited to participate in expert groups when a study is to be carried out, etc. etc. Denmark's Conservation Association is a private organisation, and I would like, if that is the case, to explain to me that I simply do not understand why the Danish Conservation Association as a private organisation should have some rights that other organisations do not have. What is this all about in historical terms? I mean, you can raise a conservation case without the pilot's interest, without the municipality being interested, without any real interest other than the Danish Nature Conservation Association. Where does that right come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132041	As far as I remember, it comes from Thorvald Stauning, who was Prime Minister at the time when the rights were acquired, as I recall again, in 1937. It is a right that has been enjoyed since then, and then it has been codified somewhat more for approx. Twenty years ago, when you got a legal basis for this right. But it is true that it is a peculiar view that an association in this way has a right. I think this is a good way of managing it. I think it is good in line with the Danish tradition of association that we gather together on our positions. We do it in political parties, and then we are a member of a badminton club or something else next door, and many people with a special interest in nature and the conservation of important natural areas are members of the Danish Nature Conservation Association. So this has been decided many years ago... to give these special privileges. I think that is a good thing, but with special privileges comes a special responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132145	Mrs. Karina Due.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132147	I fully agree that the whole idea of association is really, really good, but I do not understand why the Danish Nature Conservation Association should be disadvantaged over other associations. Everyone can raise a conservation case if they are a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association and have them lead the case. The problem is that no one else has those privileges. When is the Association supposed to appeal decisions without the parents interested in it? When will the Danish Federation of Hunters decide when there will be hunting times for the different game species? Well, what are we into?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132234	What are we in? That is not exactly an innovation, one might say. This is a right that has been there since 1937. I believe that this is a reasonable right to have, and I do not think it is possible to conclude that all sorts of other associations should have similar rights of objection in their territory. In the case of the Danish Federation of Hunters, it is one of the participants in the Wildlife Management Council who advises me on how to set hunting times etc. So there I receive advice, sometimes I also listen to it, sometimes I follow it; I always listen to it. But there you have different levels to engage on and to get involved on. We just disagree about that. I think it is good that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has the opportunity to travel conservation cases in Denmark. I think it is democratic and I think it is a good way of doing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132333	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132334	That was the last question that made me enter. Because it might sound as if the Danish Nature Conservation Association decides whether something should be protected. I would just like the Minister to confirm that they have a right of choice for these conservations, but that it is an independent judge and a conservation board who decides that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132359	That is absolutely correct. It is always incredibly delicious when a question has not been properly answered, so to ask a supplementary question: can the Minister confirm the following? And then you can just repeat what Mrs Trine Torp has said. That is quite right. It is the case that conservation matters can be raised, as I said in my speech before. But it is not Denmark's Nature Conservation Association that decides whether a conservation should be implemented. This is done precisely by a judge and two other participants.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132428	There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteur's line and the first rapporteur is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132452	Thank you. I'm on my way. Back in 1937 the Prime Minister, Stauning, as we just mentioned, was the one who helped to give the Danish Nature Conservation Association the conservation right that we are debating today. In the Social Democratic Party we are proud of the natural progress that this conservation right has helped to bring about. DN has helped to raise conservation cases for parts of our most valuable and beautiful nature, and something like this has also been mentioned in the past. The Gren of Skagen, the Mountains of Mol and the Klint of Møn. I was on a trip with DN myself on Sunday. They have arranged these different trips around the country where you can get out to some of the local protected nature, and it is important that we have DN, which has neither economics nor other interests tied up in conservation matters and therefore only looks at them from a natural point of view. DN has also had this campaign where you could go in and sign if you didn't think this proposal should be implemented. I was just in time to check it out last night, and more than 30,000 Danes have done so, and we are in agreement with them. We can see that nature is under pressure. Scientists call the decline in animal and plant species the sixth mass death. We must therefore take this seriously, not by weakening the protection of nature, but by strengthening it. The green organisations have also said 'no' to the proposal here, and we can also say 'no' to the right of veto granted to municipalities and states in relation to future conservation cases if we implement the proposal. You have also said no to extending it to other organisations. Because what they're saying is that DN is the one who has the expertise in this, and it's no wonder when they've been courting since 1937. But I have noted that organisations such as Agriculture & Food and the Danish Forest Association also welcome what we discussed just now, namely that DN has reached out and has said that there must of course be a good dialogue and that they want to help ensure that. So they do not want new legislation, and that is why we in the Social Democratic Party are sending a friendly thought to Stauning today for the protection of the environment that he has helped to ensure and in which DN has been an active player. So we do not support the proposal. Instead, we want a strong commitment to biodiversity and nature in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then that is the next rapporteur in line, sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124132737	Thank you. Thank you to the authors of this motion for a resolution. After all, it hits right into a very necessary debate, and I would like to sign for that. First of all, however, I would also like to state, as the rapporteur of the Left, that we in the Left are, of course, behind all the good conservations that have been made over the years, and as Fynbo, I am thinking, for example. also on one of our very unique natural pearls, Svanninge Bakker at Faaborg on South Funen, and other equally reasonable conservations that have been made around the country over the years. Of course, we need to be careful about our natural pearls, and we want to travel in them and enjoy them, for example. in Svanninge Bakker, and take a walk in them on the paths that are also for it, just as in Svanninge Bakker there have also been many and large popular events throughout the years in absolutely amazing surroundings. We have to be careful, no doubt about it. After all, it is a very special right that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has, and that right must be managed with caution and objectivity. There are not many associations if anyone has such far-reaching rights as Denmark's Nature Conservation Association. It is, I think, problematic that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has sometimes in recent years proposed unnecessary conservation measures. There are examples of Denmark's Nature Conservation Association proposing conservation of forests, etc., which the forest owners and pilot owners themselves already take very good care of, and where, in addition to looking after forests and natural values, they also allow you to travel on landscaped roads and paths. It is unfortunate when the Danish Nature Conservation Association proposes conservation sites like these, and it easily deprives the forest and pilot owners concerned of a great and good commitment to the situations in question. I hope that the Danish Nature Conservation Association will take the debate here on conservation seriously and seriously and in the future think extra carefully about when considering proposing new conservations, and something might suggest in the debate that has been so far that they are listening to it. In the Left we have picked up the countboard and we cannot support the resolution on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133008	There is a question from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133011	It has to be very short. I have no doubt that there are major discussions in the Left. At any rate, I have heard from the Leftmen around the country who think this is a good proposal. But that's the way it is sometimes. But the rapporteur started by saying that the Left is, of course, behind existing conservations. I just want to comment on that by saying that we do, of course, also in the Danish People's Party. When I say that, it's because this proposal has, like, been taken as an attack on nature, but it has nothing to do with an attack on nature. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if we in the Left do not understand at least that there may be small pilots who feel very squeezed and who therefore find themselves in a situation where it can be said that they have to spend money on lawyers or other things to help them in relation to such a conservation case because they have no one else to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133111	I would also like to say that I am signing up for the debate and, as the rapporteur of the Left, I can clearly say that we have not seen the proposal of the Danish People's Party as an attack, an attack, against nature. As I started by saying, it is good to have it raised so that we can have these things debated and so that we can also have the problematic situations that Mrs Pia Adelsteen is just travelling here brought forward. If there are some pilots who get stuck and where that, you might say, comes as a lightning from a clear sky or at least surprises them, and if there are some situations where they have to ally themselves with experts and get the cost of it, then it is bad. As I also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, I have been invited to look, among other things, at a few forest areas where, in my view, it was quite unnecessary to come and propose a conservation because the landlords, forest owners themselves, already take good care of it, and in cases such as these, you have to do pluses and minuses. There, when we have to make a clear statement, we have come to the conclusion that we cannot then support the proposal as it stands. But I also hope, as I have indicated as rapporteur for the Left, that the Danish Nature Conservation Association will listen to this and think twice about it when they have other things on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133226	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133227	I'm actually just gonna ask you a few questions about that, too. For part of our proposal is that either the municipality or the state should be involved, and of course it has something to do with the economic consequences that may be of a conservation case, where one can say that the Danish Nature Conservation Association does not have any crowns in place if they make a conservation case. But the municipalities or the state have. At any rate, I have heard from previous Left Environment Ministers that sometimes it can be really difficult to make budgets in relation to conservation cases because paths are being demanded and so on. There I would like to hear the position of the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133305-2	I totally agree. If you don't have your hand on the hobby plate yourself, in this situation Denmark's Conservation Association, you can almost say "it's easy to run off," and perhaps it was also what was happening from my point of view in the Danish Nature Conservation Association, when you went out and suggested some conservations that I personally thought were completely unnecessary, and that is why I also marked it in the rapporteur's speech and the debate we have with each other here. So I hope that can also make an impression in the Danish Nature Conservation Association when debating new opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133340	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133356	Thank you. The Danish People's Party ran a big advertising campaign some years ago, where the slogan was "There are so many things we need to be careful of." And where is the Danish People's Party right, because yes, we must take care of the few amazing natural areas we have left in Denmark, and we must look after the habitats of rare species and the magnificent cultural monuments, so that they do not plow up or drain away and disappear from the map forever. The Danish People's Party has cleverly tried to wrap this proposal into a story that we must democratise the conservation process. And yes, it might be sensible to give more organizations the opportunity to raise a conservation case. But the essence of the proposal is that one wants to deprive the Danish Nature Conservation Association and possibly other organisations of the right to raise conservation matters independently. The fact is that the Danish Nature Conservation Association today raises seven out of ten cases of conservation. So if the Danish People's Party succeeds or could have succeeded in implementing the proposal now we know that it will not succeed. It would be beyond any doubt that there would be far fewer conservations, and in other words it would not take care of the nature we have. I believe that we must go the opposite way. Denmark is at a very low level when it comes to protecting our nature, compared with other European countries. We need more nature, and it should be free and wild nature. First of all, we need to stop destroying what we have. Instead, we must protect nature and let it live freely. We must leave forests, meadows and streams for our children and grandchildren, who are equally rich and preferably actually a little richer on different animals and plants. Therefore, we must not only have protected areas, but also natural areas in Denmark, which we can all visit and enjoy, but where our interference is additionally banned and where we leave nature on its very own terms. We must move away from a view of everything that is outdoors, as a resource that can only be exploited. We need to leave nature at the mercy of agriculture, fisheries and forestry interests. We must have more nature that we can all come to, feel and feel, because nature belongs to all of us. Everyone must have the opportunity to have strong, rewarding natural experiences, no matter where they come from. To ensure that nature belongs to everyone, that we have equal access to nature, and that nature becomes wilder and richer, does not come by itself. This requires that we decide on it, and the conservationists are part of it. The peace does not in itself, but it is an instrument to get there, and therefore we must preserve the right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to cease areas for conservation. The peace is also a generation promise. Generations after us must also be given the opportunity to enjoy nature. When we preserve areas, we promise the next generation that they will also have access to nature. Last Sunday we saw that people stood up for the Danish nature and for the Danish Nature Conservation Association's right to conservation at events across the country. It was a clear signal to the Danish People's Party and, for that matter, the government that the free and wild nature means a great deal to many of us and that a new natural movement is underway. There are a lot of people who not only appreciate nature but are also willing to fight for it. That is why we also saw thousands of people ringing the coasts when the government wanted to build on the beaches. So there are plenty of Danish values to fight for and Danish natural pearls and magnificent cultural landscapes that testify to the history of our Danish nature. It is important, and it is Danish values that must be fought for. If we are to preserve more of these values for posterity, it is definitely counterproductive to deprive the Danish Nature Conservation Association or, for that matter, other organisations of the right to be able to travel conservation independently. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133805	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133808	I could not hold back an outbreak when the rapporteur said that we would build on the coasts. I don't know what you're supposed to do. What was proposed at the time actually started under Minister Kirsten Brosbøl with 15 projects. We expanded it to 25. But of course we would make the Costa del West Coast at least according to Enhedslisten's position, I fully agree. The rapporteur says that if we remove the unique right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to raise conservation matters alone, it will lead to fewer cases. But that's a claim. That's a claim. Why will this lead to fewer cases? Is there not nearly as much nature as one can convince the elected representatives in the local areas or in here in the Folketing to be protected? Is that it? Is it because you don't have arguments that are good enough from the Danish Nature Conservation Association? Because that's a claim. That is one question. The second question is: when you want nature so badly in the Enhedslisten, which is free and wild, how can it be that you said no to Blue Block's proposal to make 20%? untouched forest back under the Red Government? There they said no on the Enhedslisten side. I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133922	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124133923	To take the latter first, it is, of course, before I took over the rapporteurship. So I don't remember that case, but we can come back to that. As far as the number of traveling conservation cases is concerned, it is now the Danish Nature Conservation Association that is taking the initiative. It may well be that there are others who will take the initiative or that the Danish Nature Conservation Association can quickly convince public authorities that these cases should be raised jointly, and that is fine. But there are, in fact, some times when either a municipality or, for that matter, the state is not interested in a conservation case being raised, and it is good that the Danish Nature Conservation Association or, if the Danish People's Party wants to make proposals on it alone, other organisations can raise a conservation case. Then the matter goes on, and if the assessment in the Protection Board is that it should not win an ear, then it will fall. But otherwise it will be an opportunity to check the cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134031	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134032	I almost don't know where to start, because this is all over the place. It is claimed that I have also been in a debate with the president of the Danish Nature Conservation Association that there will be fewer conservation proposals. But that is a claim, and it indirectly indicates that all locally elected politicians and all politicians in this Parliament are completely indifferent to nature, are completely indifferent to having some things protected that are unique and that we want to preserve for posterity. That's what they say, and I'm just wondering about such a claim.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134112	In fact, that is not what I said, that is to say that there would not be any other conservation proceedings at all. What I said was that fewer people would be raised. And if there is just one case like those that we have already completed, which is not being raised, then I think it is really a pity and that it would be bad for nature. So that's what I'm saying, and that's why I think we should preserve the right of the Danish Nature Conservation Association to raise conservation issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134140	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134146	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party very much for putting forward the motion for a resolution here to democratise the conservation process in Denmark. Because I fully agree with the Danish People's Party that the time has run from the need for a private organisation with the right and even an exclusive and almost monopoly-like right to make conservation proposals in Denmark. As you know, monopoles are not the cup of tea of the Liberal Alliance either. I fully acknowledge, however, that the need may have been there at some point, but today, unlike in 1937, when this right was adopted, we have a very well-developed local democracy in which all sections of the population are represented in the municipal councils around the country and where a citizens' group, nature conservation organisation or others through their local politicians will certainly be able to make such conservation proposals and have them dealt with in a fully democratic manner by the politicians elected for that purpose before they are presented to the Peace Board. On top of that, we now have the Nature Conservation Act, the Natura 2000 sites of the European Union, the Planning Act, planning processes, public hearings on several occasions, opposition options, the Environmental and Food Complaints Board, etc. etc. Unlike it was 1937 well, what I would call the time of the parish council, when citizen involvement was probably not exactly a widespread phenomenon. It is, for example. Only in 1938, i.e. the year after it becomes compulsory for the parish municipalities to draw up a proper municipal plan. If, for more than 80 years now, we had not had it for me to see most peculiar constellation that a more or less random private organization has such a right, then it would hardly be something that for most Danes today would fall quite naturally. I would say that paradoxically, the introduction of this monopoly-like right to the Danish Nature Conservation Association in its time has certainly reflected one after the conditions of democratisation, while the same right today as a reminiscence of the past actually reflects exactly the opposite. So I fully agree with the Danish People's Party on the need for democratisation of the conditions regarding conservation of nature in Denmark. And when we are in the process of democratisation of nature, I and the Liberal Alliance believe that we might as well take the Nature Agency and the lands of the state into this process of democratisation. Because I think it's a good idea that we can put the Danish Nature Agency off the lands of the state into free and wild nature. In fact, I think that there would be a democratic majority in favour of this, if we asked the people, rather than having the timber production that is happening today in state forests, where the state acts as a commercial actor in competition with private individuals, or rather than the operation of the State's light-open areas and light-open nature being optimised after maximum agricultural subsidies. It's basically a bad thing when the state takes that role. However, back to the motion for a resolution, which unfortunately also contains an element that is about extending the circle of organisations that can raise new conservation cases, so that it is also right for green organisations other than the Danish Nature Conservation Association. I think that is a mistake on the part of the proposers, because, as I have just explained, I do not think that any private organisation should have the exclusive monopoly right in 2019, even if it is with a public authority. That is why, as I know, I do not want to let any more organizations go into a fundamentally outdated and outdated arrangement, as I see it. For although we have today, on a long stretch, a reasonable minister in this area and a government with a grip on the long end of the rope, unfortunately we cannot be sure that this will be the case forever. Then who knows how such a system can change? I can't even think about that. No, I actually prefer to keep the system as it is today. After all, we've been living with that for 80 years, so I guess we can live with that a little bit longer. The Danish Nature Conservation Association now also promises improvements in their practice and to conduct a more open and constructive dialogue on future conservations. In other words, the resolution has already had a positive and democratic effect. So again many thanks to the Danish People's Party, but unfortunately the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134722	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134725	Thank you. It was a very long speech by the rapporteur and one had to listen carefully to see why it was that LA ended up not wanting to support the proposal, because it certainly sounded as if the rapporteur really wanted to press the green button if this were to be voted on in the Parliamentary Assembly. So, so that we can all be here, I would like to hear: if we say that we do not extend the circle to other organisations, which in some way was the straw to which the rapporteur clinged, is the rapporteur's position on this proposal so that the right to travel conservation matters should actually be taken from the Danish Nature Conservation Association?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134808	It is, of course, a motion for a resolution which contains what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely that the circle of private so-called green organisations should be extended, which we fundamentally disagree with, as I described. In fact, I do not think it is such a great secret. In fact, I would say that it is almost publicly known that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of Denmark's Conservation Association having exactly the same rights as all other green organisations in terms of conservation, and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134854	Mrs. Lea Wermelin, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134857	Okay, so it's a little bit clearer. As far as public secrets are concerned, one can always discuss whether people know or do not know, but it is very good to make clear what the party really wants, and what is quite clear now after that answer is that one does not think that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should have this right and that it should not have other organisations either. The Green organisations say that they do not want that right at all, so the rapporteur cannot tell us a little about what makes the rapporteur say that the red button is going to be pressed anyway. After all, it sounds as if the rapporteur agrees more with the Danish People's Party than with the Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124134940	That is also what I said in my speech, if the questioner could find out about it. I know it was a little bit long, and maybe it was a little bit pretty and cryptic too, I shouldn't be able to say that. I thought it was a very good speech. What is, after all, the hops in it, and as you will be able to read in the minutes, is that it is a question of what will happen if we have another minister or another government at a later stage. Of course, it takes a long time for this to happen, but it cannot be ruled out that it will happen, and how will it develop? I have not dared to think at the end when I wrote my rapporteur's speech, but one can only speculate about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135023	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135025	Thank you for the nice words in relation to the proposal. I would also like to ask: if, now, the Danish People's Party proposes an amendment to its own proposal, namely that we deprive all organisations of the right to raise conservation cases, will the Liberal Alliance vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135043	I think I might have the answer to that waiting for some discussions in committee and perhaps the wording of Mrs Pia Adelsteen's amendments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135055	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen? No. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Carsten Bach and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Carsten Bach. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135103	We need much more wilder nature in Denmark, and one of the tools we have to create it is to preserve nature areas. It is a rule and a tool we have had since 1937 as has also been mentioned several times in the debate, and at that time the Danish Nature Conservation Association was given this special opportunity to travel conservations. The Danish Nature Conservation Association is not just any private organisation, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur mentioned in his speech. It is actually a very large popular association, a democratic association and a non-profit association, that is, an association that works with the aim of creating more wild nature in Denmark and protecting nature. As I see the Danish Nature Conservation Association's right to travel conservations, it gave citizens the right to travel conservations in 1937 through this association of citizens, which was called the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and which has since then been an association of citizens. All citizens who are interested in nature can join and participate in this work, and that is why I think it is a fine constellation. It underpins the democracy that I am a great supporter of, where citizens are given as much power as they want in their work. So for me the right to raise conservationists is real citizen involvement and so in the serious way, because the Danish Nature Conservation Association has at the same time developed into Denmark's largest environmental organisation with in the order of 130,000 members. This means that when Denmark's Nature Conservation Association goes out with e.g.. proposals for a conservation, so there are a lot of Danes in the back of those initiatives. Then we have just heard that one of the things that lies in the proposal we are discussing here is a desire for pilots to be informed earlier in the process. The Danish Nature Conservation Association's management has announced earlier this year that it will do so now when it decides to raise a conservation. And I think that is a fine step on the way, because it meets some of what is in this proposal from the Danish People's Party. Then there's this angle that's about whether more organizations should have the right to travel conservations, and that's where I'd say, well, I guess you could do that. I don't think it'll make any difference. The important thing here is that if you wanted to introduce it here, you should do it in a way to ensure that it is other non-profit organisations with a natural purpose, typically organized as an association, so that you ensure that it is actually a collection of citizens who can travel conservations, because that is what we are talking about here with the Danish Nature Conservation Association. In practice, I am familiar with the work because I have been employed in the organisation and I know that it is a huge piece of work to draw up a proposal for a conservation. That is why I believe that, even if this was given to several organizations, no one else would take up the ball in the first place, because it simply requires a deep competence and a lot of resources to be able to raise a conservation case. It is typically a work where you go deep into history, culture and natural history; you go out and look at the area, you relate to a lot of details, and you do an extensive short work, where you describe exactly what is to happen. The work is simply so resource-intensive that I do not think that others will pick up that ball. In principle, however, I have no objection to other non-profit associations being given the same opportunity. So overall, in the alternative, we are against this proposal... we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135537	There are a few brief comments, and that is first, Mr President. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135541	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her speech. If I can get the rapporteur to ignore his previous employment relationships, will the rapporteur perhaps try to give his opinion on whether the Danish Nature Conservation Association is a better or worse so-called green organisation than others?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135608	What is important, I think, in this context, is the public interest objective and the possibility that the ordinary citizen of Denmark may be a member, that is. the combination of popular support, and that work is being done for a purpose which is about protecting nature. If other associations have the same constellation, I don't see any problem, then it'll probably be a goose-eye as good an organization as you understand it. This is to be understood by me in the way that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has built up a huge experience of describing these cases, and it will take many years for other organisations to learn the craft that it is to raise a conservation. So right now and here and for the first many years, no one will be as good at it, but in principle one could easily imagine it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135706	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135707	Thank you for your answer. So maybe the rapporteur would agree with me that in the past the Danish Nature Conservation Association has perhaps been one what I would call more or less random organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135725	I think that's right. At that time it was probably the only one who was, and in this way it was possible for citizens to travel conservation when they joined together in a community such as that of the Danish Nature Conservation Association.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135744	Then it's Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135746	Thank you for that and also thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I need to hear about one thing. The rapporteur says that it is a special association because it has many Members and that it therefore, it can be said, has all Members in the back when it starts a conservation case. But I have seen cases where local people from the Danish Nature Conservation Association have been against conservation cases that have been raised. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's position on this. And then I would like to know whether the rapporteur knows other organisations... it doesn't have to be green organisations, but other private organisations have some sort of legal right to start some cases in here or in the country, which you have to deal with and which can trigger compensations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135835	To the last question: No, I do not know about that. And to the first question: Well, that is the beauty of democracy, because Denmark's Nature Conservation Association also has its own member democracy. There is a board of directors that is local associations. After all, it is precisely the beauty of democracy that one can disagree with such a democracy, and then one can ultimately decide what the majority wants, for example. to raise a protection case. So, in my eyes, it's just a beauty of this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135908	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135909	But I guess it's a beauty in all associations. Because I do not know any associations which do not have a board of directors which is democratically elected; which have some statutes that are not respected; yes, everything. I don't know any associations that don't feel that way. And then all associations are probably like the Danish Nature Conservation Association, you should think.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124135933	Yes, and that is precisely why I say that in principle I would agree that any non-profit association with a purpose of protecting and developing the Danish nature could well have this right to raise a conservation case. In practice, I just don't think it would be very useful because it takes a great deal of competence. It has been used and developed by DN over time, and there needs to be a great deal of popular support for it. Not all associations have yet reached that point either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140007	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll and move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140013	Mrs Ida Auken, who is usually our rapporteur in this area, greets me. She is in Davos to the World Economic Forum, and that is why I have the honour of saying no to this resolution on behalf of the Radical Left. We think it is a good Danish value that we have a country that takes the lead in green conversion. We can easily drink our drinking water; we are also taking the lead by allowing our own citizens to be involved in the preservation of nature. It is the Danish Nature Conservation Association that, together with all the members they now have, can set a piece of nature to be protected. As far as I remember, they have had this opportunity since 1937 and the Danish Nature Conservation Association has been founded precisely in order to be able to raise these conservation cases. That's the whole point of that union. We think it is a good Danish cultural thing that our own citizens can help engage in nature issues and help raise a conservation case. It is not Denmark's Nature Conservation Association that decides whether a piece of nature should be protected. They can stop it and then it is an independent body that decides whether a piece of nature should be protected and under what conditions in relation to the landowners. We think that is a good mechanism; it has worked. If you look at it historically, it is natural pearls and such well-known Danish places as for example. The branch in Skagen, which has been protected precisely because the Nature Conservation Society has raised the matter. So we don't see any reason to change it. We think it is sensible, as the Minister also mentioned, to have a dialogue on how pilots can be involved and informed. We think that is good logic. There we also think, as I think the Minister was very well aware, that the Danish Nature Conservation Association has an obligation, given that they have been given this opportunity. However, we do not see any reason why the issue of raising cases should be left to the discretion of a municipal council to say 'yes' or 'no' to whether the matter is raised. We think it is excellent; we think it is democratic; we think it is citizen-friendly and a Danish value that citizens can do it themselves through an association. So we say 'no' to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140237	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140240	I am not entirely surprised at this, but I would nevertheless like to ask the rapporteur a little the same question that I asked the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Does the rapporteur not say that none of the local politicians have been elected on the city councils, who are interested in nature, that it could not hurt them any less? I do not know how to say it nicely? So it really was not something that interested them? The same is true in this Chamber. For example: a municipal council could say: No, we don't want to protect these rock carvings, you can forget that we want to build parcel houses. Then the union comes in here and asks, "What do you think?" And then there is no one in here who cares about anything called nature. I know what I'm saying is a little provocative. At first sight, it is not because the Danish People's Party wants to remove conservations. We haven't talked about that at all. It is not because we want to cut down everything in nature, cut down forest and something like that. We haven't talked about that at all. We're just saying that this unique right is obsolete and should be democratised. That is why I would like to know the views of Radicals on the local elected, if nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140352	As you know, it is election year, and I, like everyone else, depend on some radical shop stewards to help me and the whole party get a good choice. And that is why I will certainly not stand by and say that there are no radical councillors around who fight for nature; for that is what many of them do. There are many other parties, including the Danish People's Party. But one doesn't rule out the other. Today it is seven out of ten conservation cases that are raised by the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and the three out of ten others are then raised by among others. Municipal Councils. So one doesn't rule out the other. But we think it is a good idea, and we think it is democratic, unlike Mrs Pia Adelsteen, that the citizens themselves, without having to go through a municipal council or anything else, can raise a conservation case through an association they have formed for this purpose. So we need both, Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140440	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140442	Then I would like to ask whether the Radical Left thinks there are other private associations that should also have some rights in raising cases. So, many people are running on the argument that the Danish Nature Conservation Association is an association with a great many members... 130,000 members... but the Danish Federation of Hunters has 180,000 members, so shouldn't they also have a unique right to raise some special cases that may have something to do with hunting?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140511	To the end, the answer is: No, we have no intention of doing so. Whether or not some associations should have the same right, we have not taken a position on it. It may be. I know there are no associations that have asked for it, for, as Mr. Christian Poll also mentioned it is quite a lot of work. I think, for example, that the Danish Federation of Hunters, which I have met with a few times, has a lot of work going on on about everything else, so I do not think they have any interest in having to raise conservation issues as well. But if there are any, I wouldn't want to rule it out in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140542	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124140550	Now it is probably no secret that I would like there to be a government other than the one that is today, but I would also like to say today that there is at least one party I am happy to be sitting in government right now, because when I listen to the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, I do believe that the reason why the government's attitude to this matter is what it is, is to a large extent that the Conservatives have raised a green flag. So I would like to thank Conservatives for that at least in advance. And I would also like to thank the Minister for at least agreeing with this, although there may be different positions in the Left. Nature has value in itself alone, but it also has value for us humans. I myself live in Halsnæs up in North Zealand, where I especially enjoy the nature that surrounds us, the many natural habitats, the diverse animal and plant life and the availability to nature for children and adults. But it doesn't come by itself. One can easily take it as a matter of course and forget that nature conservation is not something that comes of itself, and one is perhaps not aware in the day-to-day context that nature is under pressure, that species disappear and that diversity is decreasing. But that is the reality. What, then, is the purpose of conservation? It may almost sound like they are only there to bother and set up restrictions. But the conservationists are there to protect, improve and recreate natural values, which are under pressure, because there is a struggle for the squares and many interests at stake. If, in that struggle, no one is solely defending the interests of nature, then all other interests will dominate. Municipalities, the state and the Danish Nature Conservation Association can raise the conservation cases in the Peace Board, and it is a unique and important conservation system, and it ensures that there is a factual justification for the authority decisions. Let us just make it clear, as I also received the Minister's confirmation, that the Danish Nature Conservation Association does not make a decision, but the Peace Board, which has an independent judge for the table end with the municipality and state. It has existed since 1937 when Stauning gave the association the right to travel, i.e. propose, conservation cases, and it was his idea to take care of nature and general wealth, by the fact that state, municipalities and pilots should not have a right of veto in relation to conservations of Danish nature, and this has given us fantastic natural areas: Skagens Gren, Møns Klint, Mols Bjerge, Råbjerg Mile and actually also part of the areas I have around me where I live. But it is just to mention some of the thousands of conservations that have been carried out and that nature and we humans now enjoy from conservations that have been erected by the Danish Nature Conservation Association without the immediate support of the authorities, but where it has proved to be a protection and protection of valuable nature that we are so excited about today that it has even been included in a natural cannon. Denmark's Conservation Association is a clear voice for nature. They have over 80 years of experience with conservations that no one else has. They have almost 130,000 members, they have 1,500 volunteers and local units all over the country, which ensure knowledge of the very local area in which they are located, and they are not governed by economic interests and individual interests, but by a principle that nature is our common possession. It has been mentioned before that 7 out of 10 conservation cases are raised by the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and 85%. The Danish Nature Conservation Association is the largest organisation in the green area in Denmark and represents a great many people who want to protect our nature. In SF we will not support the proposal to deprive the Danish Nature Conservation Association of the right to propose conservations independently, because it will lead to less protected nature, and Denmark already has bottom record in protected nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141008	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Erik Lund, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141019	First of all, thank you to Mrs Trine Torp for clarifying that Conservatives have raised the green flag and are the green party in the blue sea. When I'm here talking about the environment, I usually wear my green tie. I still have it, it's here, so don't cheat about it, but the tie I'm wearing today, I got it from my daughter last Friday on the occasion of my 25th anniversary in town council work. But the green tie is still gone. Nature conservation is an excellent opportunity to take care of the valuable nature that both Danes and tourists appreciate and that many enjoy when they move around our fantastic country. Like Mrs Trine Torp, I come from Northern Zealand, and the Millådalen is one of the areas that has been protected. And the millådalen is among other things. A Natura 2000 area too, and we really must cherish that. That's why I was happy when I saw the new capital game. After all, we all know that we have a transport corridor down the Millådalen, where many years ago it had been planned that there would be a motorway and all sorts of things, but in the new capital project that has come now, the transport corridor will not be removed. This could be the first step towards the complete removal of it, because that nature should not be destroyed by construction, by motorway or by anything else. Today it is the case that both the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the municipalities and the state can raise conservation issues, but the final decision on whether to implement conservation is taken by the conservation boards. Over the past 20 years, there has been excellent cooperation between the municipalities, the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the Ministry of the Environment and Food on an action plan for conservation that ensures that conservations are proposed where they are most useful. As we now have a system that works as intended, Conservatives cannot support the Danish People's Party's proposal that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should only be able to raise conservation cases in cooperation with a municipality or state. However, the point in the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on the early orientation of pilots, if a defence case is brought on their property, we fully agree. Like the Minister, we look forward to an even better dialogue between the parties in the future, which will ensure improved legal certainty for pilot owners, and we are pleased, as we have heard today, that this has actually happened and if it works, we have no problems. Conservatives cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141253	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141301	Thanks for the speech. I would like to say again quickly that it is no surprise to me that the Conservatives do not support it. I believe that it was the first of the blue parties to withdraw, as soon as the resolution was known, on Twitter and on Facebook, that this could not be supported under any circumstances. That's the way it is. As I know Conservatives, we are in favour of private property rights, which is why I would like to hear the opinion on it when it comes to conservation. That's one thing. The other thing is about this thing, as a pilot, to be informed earlier about conservation cases. There I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can tell us how early must be. And if, if it is not, even though the Danish Nature Conservation Association has said that it will be, are Conservatives prepared to do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141356	To begin with, we cherish private property, but we also cherish nature, which is why we have to say that the nature conservation and the way it has been since 1937 have been very, very safe, and we think that we have got a lot of good conservations in that way. That is why we do not think it should be changed. As far as the latter is concerned, I hope, like the Minister and most of us, that the Danish Nature Conservation Association will find out. But if it turns out that it is not found out, then we are prepared to intervene, possibly by the government putting forward a legislative proposal on it, because it has to work. And we believe, like the minister, that it works. But again, if it doesn't work, we'll take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141442	Mrs. Pia Adelsteen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141446	Thank you for that statement. I'm kind of happy about that. So I would just like to ask a brief question: What does Conservatives find most important about nature or private property?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141456	We do not give priority to what is most important. We cherish private property, but we also cherish a lot about nature. So that is not a priority for one thing or another. It's both.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141509	We thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124141523	Thank you for that, President. I will start by reading a little: My family has for generations been the happy owners of the many farms in Vejle Ådal. One of the privileges of living here is the beautiful nature that surrounds us nature, which we do everything we can to look after and safeguard. Together with all our neighbours and public authorities, among others. Vejle Municipality, we have for many years created a beautiful, healthy and useful nature for the benefit of animals, vegetation and people. On 1 May last year, a letter will be dumped into our mailboxes. The letter is from the Danish Nature Conservation Association. It contains a final proposal on the conservation of our land in Vejle Ådal. It was a surprise we hadn't seen coming. The letter also says that if we do not comply with the conservation proposal in its current wording per year. Today's date, we will be punished. Gospelless by this sudden reduction in how to care for, maintain and develop our fields, forests and private homes, we are puzzled and worried, because what does this proposal mean for us, and how can a private, self-appointed organization like the Danish Nature Conservation Association behind our backs travel conservation proposals and threaten us with our livelihoods and existence? I read this out because that's how many people see conservation proposals. And that is precisely why we have tabled the proposal. As the Minister began by saying, this has not come out of thin air. It is because there are people out in Denmark who experience that despite having looked after nature in such a good way that the Danish Nature Conservation Association thinks it is unique and that it needs public access to this unique nature, which also needs to be protected, they are now deprived of the right to control their own property. They've paid for this property, they've invested in it, etc. We in the Danish People's Party think this is wrong. We'll just have to say that. We think the time has run from the fact that the Danish Nature Conservation Association should have the unique right they have had for 80 years, and we do not in fact believe that they have managed it in a very good way, given that private pilots can experience it here. It has nothing to do with the fact that it is an attack on nature. Last Sunday there were 41 demonstrations against the proposal of the Danish People's Party • 41 demonstrations. So we must have really hit a nerve if nothing else. It was 41 demonstrations headed "Be a part of defending the nature of protections in danger." Thanks a lot, I thought when I read it. Actually, I printed them all out. I don't really know if it wasn't some paper sucking, because it filled a lot. But I thought I'd just have to read this. To the title "Be a part of defending nature', I would say that I know the proposal we are making is not an attack on nature, and I actually find these headlines quite misleading. Of course, the Danish Parliament's parties and other parties should not answer that question, but the Danish Nature Conservation Association should answer that question. I don't think it's okay. I think it's nice to hear our Minister for the Environment say this comes from something. It doesn't come from nothing. We have not sat in the Danish People's Party and thought that now we should bother the Danish Nature Conservation Association as much as possible. This comes from real people who live and live and care for our nature in Denmark, and who feel so annoyed, and that is not fair. Then it is quite true that more people say that it is not Denmark's Nature Conservation Association that decides matters. No, it's not. We have a conservation board. There are three people: there is a judge, then there is one who has been appointed from the municipality, if he is a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, I should not be able to say "and then there is one who has been appointed by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency." Whether he is a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, I should not be able to say either. Because it is not something that is being checked and, by the way, you are not insane, even if you are. With all due respect, sir. Christian Poll, who has previously been employed in the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and who has certainly been an excellent employee, I have no doubt of that, so I would be a little concerned to call it a neutral board if Mr. Christian Poll had been appointed to sit and decide on it. It is perhaps just one of the anchors I have, at least, against saying that everything is just neutral, that everything is running by the book and that everything sits straight closet. Because it doesn't. Because if it did, we didn't have newspaper articles like that, and then we didn't have people out in Denmark who said: it's not okay what happens. We feel sneaky. Last Tuesday, the Danish Nature Conservation Association sent a press release to me calling from Altingen, so it has at least come to where they indicated that, yes, they have looked at their own procedures; that they think that the pilots should be informed earlier; and that they very much want dialogue. And just as the Minister has met with the president of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, I also met with Maria Reumert Gjerding. It has been quite excellent meetings, which for me also indicate that you might also look a little inwards. If nothing else, we have won so much in relation to the discussion: that it does not matter that you sometimes look at your own procedures, your own ways of handling things. Because as a private association, when you have a law-based right, you also have a responsibility to deal with a law-based right in a proper manner with all citizens. This is about all citizens. It's not just big pilots. You often get the impression that this is just something that affects people who have a manor or something. But it doesn't have to be at all, and I just think we should be open to that. We have an example down by Fredericia, the Trelde Forests, where there are 70 pilot owners. That means that it is not a huge forest that each of them owns. The municipality is among other things. also co-owners. But there is now a conservation case where the Danish Nature Conservation Association has actually done what is in the proposal. They have approached the municipality and asked: should we start a conservation? The municipality has agreed to that or a majority has agreed to it. This is what I think would be the perfect way to do it. For now we have the democratic process that we lack in the Danish People's Party. Indeed, we have people who also have to answer for the economy to their citizens in the municipality who say that they actually think this is important. Then you like it or you don't. That is not what I want to say. But you have some people who also have to find the money for this conservation that helps make it. And that is actually what we want in the Danish People's Party. I do not want to go through all the rapporteur's speeches. We already knew before we stood here today that everyone would say no to the proposal. I have to admit that. As I said in my first question to the Minister, I have never received so much attention from a resolution that I have co-sponsored. But that also suggests to us that we have hit a nerve, and I think it is good that some have listened, especially from the Danish Nature Conservation Association. And I'm really glad that the minister and several other parties in the bourgeois camp say: Now, listen, we're keeping an eye on what you're doing. Because otherwise we'll do something else. Because it is not fair that you can impose expenses on other people when you have nothing in your own hand. Actually, I don't think so. Thank you, however, for the treatment in this Chamber. Thank you for the reception given to the proposal after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142356	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142400	Thank you. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something, because we are very divided on this specific proposal. I think one of the things that has got people out of the chairs is that they become very concerned about nature. As the rapporteur says, the Danish People's Party is not interested in cutting down all forests and destroying all nature, but that is what gets people out of the chairs, I think. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not right to do so because, now that the Danish Nature Conservation Association is the ones that are taking the initiative on a great many conservation cases, and the municipalities have everything else to fight with and the state the same thing • that there is a real probability that there would not be the same number of conservation cases as we see today. It is not necessarily because there is an unwillingness on the part of local elected politicians, I certainly do not think so, but because they also have everything else to attend to. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142501	No, I'm not. I believe it is a claim and that it is a claim that has started with the president of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, who so per. Reflex has said that if they are deprived of their legal right, there will not be so many conservation cases. It has actually been part of what I have tried to ask the various rapporteurs, because I believe that they say at the same time: well, all the people who sit out in the city councils, or people who sit in this Parliament, are completely indifferent to nature. Just out of the debate we have had today, we can immediately see that no, we are not. So I don't agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142535	Mrs. Lea Wermelin.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142538	Now I myself was one of those who was leaving here on Sunday, as I also said from the platform, out in something called Kåsegårdsløkken, on Bornholm. I've been there once before. It's a conservation that was made on the basis of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, and I just think it's a question that you don't always have local expertise and knowledge to raise these conservation cases. And that is what the green organisations are saying. They're not really interested in getting this right, because they don't have the expertise, but it's the Danish Nature Conservation Association because it's something they've been working on for so many years. These are also some of the examples we have looked at with many of these amazing conservations, where we have succeeded in preserving some valuable nature. A final short question to the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there is a difference between the interests that are involved, i.e. whether you have an economic interest in it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142631	Then I'll try to see if I can hurry to answer. The knowledge involved in raising a conservation case is, of course, great. But at least I'm convinced that a municipality can find out. That is why our proposal is that the municipality or the state should be involved. Well, then it can't be any harder. Because if it's so difficult, it may be that we have to change those rules. That's one thing. The second point is that, of course, there may be different interests which mean that you do not think the conservation should be carried out. There are municipalities that would rather build farmhouses than have a conservation. That is why our proposal is that it should be either a municipality or a state. Because then I'm convinced that if there's anything worth preserving, we'll do it in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142710	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142715	Thank you. The proposer really questions whether the Peace Board can now be neutral or an independent size. I'd like to ask you a few questions about that. It is true that the concept of a private organization, a private association, has been used. I would say that private is a lot of things. What I find interesting here are several things. The fact is that the Danish Nature Conservation Association is a non-profit association and that there is no real economic interest in a conservation case. This applies both to the association as a whole, but it also applies to all the members of the association. After all, no member gets an economic benefit from a conservation, and neither does the association. Then what I want to ask the rapporteur is whether it is not enough to call it an independent association.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142811	In fact, I think that is a difficult question just to answer, because in my optics I am very prepared and happy that we have as many associations as we have in Denmark. And we have an association like the Elders Case. Is it a general association and independent? I guess so. By the way, it has half a million members, so it should actually have more rights than the Danish Nature Conservation Association, if we take it on the basis of the number of members. But they haven't. It's just to say that I actually think this can be difficult. As far as the neutrality of these conservation boards is concerned, my point is that one thing is that there is a judge. After all, we do not ask people when they come in and have to sit on a board that decides whether they are members of an association, because we have freedom of association in Denmark, something I am actually in favour of. So, of course, we don't ask. And as I also said, with all due respect and honor, maybe I would just be a little bit worried if Mr. Christian Poll was one of the appointed. That's one thing. The second point is that there does not need to be unanimity when deciding on a conservation case. There doesn't have to be in the Protection Board, and I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142919	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124142924	If we then take this Protection Board, which consists of a judge and a state representative and a municipal representative, then the case is precisely that you have an independent judge here, and then you have some who represent the typical economic interests of the municipality in, for example. to build on the territory in question. It could also be the State that had that type of economic interest. It doesn't matter if the people who show up and represent have some private membership. Because it is precisely a membership of, for example. Denmark's Conservation Association, which has no economic aspect. This means that if I come and represent the municipality, it is of course the interest of the municipality, and I myself have no economic interest, even though I am a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association. So I'm independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143012	But that's a claim. I have seen conservation cases where they wanted to be protected in the front, so that a view was preserved and some nature was preserved etc. I don't know if you've been inside looking at the ownership, i.e. who owned the houses. You look at the conservation, but there may actually be an economic interest for those who own the houses. Then I don't know where they're represented. I just find it problematic that you can actually sit on a board or on the appeal board and be a member of an association that has raised a case. For me, it's a little inconvenient.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143055	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143101	I'd like to follow up on that discussion, because I'm a little worried about that. After all, we have a great many people sitting on all kinds of boards appointed by municipalities, states and so on, who have all sorts of memberships of associations. They may also be members of a party, for example: The Danish People's Party, and if it is to prevent people from sitting in such people, or if there is to be any doubt about their impartiality or ability to represent those they are set to represent, are we not on a truly democratic path?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143135	I think it is a matter of discussing the viability or inability. In fact, I have also put the question in writing to the Minister, who also disagrees with me. But to me, it does not necessarily have to be economic interests that make an insanity. These could be political interests. It could be a lot of things that in my optics makes you insane. And that's really just what I'm trying to do about the conservation boards, also because there doesn't have to be unanimity. There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143214	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143217	It may well be that we need to get the minister to respond quite clearly to that with the rules of inability. Because Mrs Pia Adelsteen has been on a municipal council, and so have I, and there we have sometimes tried hard cases. There's a lot to do before you're insane for really good reasons. Because otherwise we couldn't really have any people sitting anywhere. It must be clear private economic interests that are at stake. But let us ask the Minister to reply in writing afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143253	I would say that the question has already been asked and the question is under consideration and has been answered by the Minister just for information. And, yes, it is true that it must be clear private economic interests that have to be taken into account. But in my optics there are many places, including in municipal politics, where people have a private-sector interest that makes them intolerable. If you are a primary school teacher and have to make decisions about the school you are working at, do you have a private economic interest if it is about closing your workplace? You could say that you hadn't? So I think it's something you're looking at. There's no per. I know that, but I personally think that at least one has a little bit to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143335	Then it's mr. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143342	I have to say that I think the rapporteur is out on the sidelines, and perhaps the rapporteur himself can feel that. After all, this explanation of viability and economic dependence is completely in addition to the fact that a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association sits on a conservation board. It would be natural for him to be involved in nature. Whether you are a member of the Danish Nature Conservation Association, the Danish Federation of Hunters or, for that matter, something quite different, it is not an indication that you are bound by the association's cases in one or the other context. It is, of course, about the fact that he is in charge of a job, just as we, as politicians, are in charge of a job here, although we are members of many different associations. At least I am a member of at least five of whom I can think of. I don't think that makes me unfit to sit in the Folketing either. But perhaps that is what the rapporteur thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143446	No, it certainly is not, and I hope I have not expressed it either. But when you sit and make decisions, and that's what we're talking about here... you make a decision to charge a pilot some expenses and charge a municipality some expenses... I actually think it's pretty important that you're very aware of what hat you're wearing. I have also seen that there are presidents of local departments of the Danish Nature Conservation Association who have sat on a conservation board. I think that may be on the verge of being capable, and that is really just what I blame a little bit, so that when you point out, you also have to think about who it is you designate those places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143528	Sir. Øjvind Vilsholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143531	Well, if we just land on thinking about who's being appointed, let's leave it there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143542	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143551	Thank you. Then there's no more on the list. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143603	The debate is open, and we shall first give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143624	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by stating that the government is very concerned that the regulation of pesticide use in Denmark is restrictive and that it ensures respect for both health and the environment, including our drinking water. The Danish authorisation of pesticides takes place according to some of the toughest rules in the world, and it is important to say that different active substances must of course be evaluated on an ongoing basis. And if there is new knowledge and if there is evidence that use implies that there is a real risk to human health or to the environment, then use must be stopped. That goes without saying. In my view, the practical assessment is first and foremost a professional assessment. The political task is to lay down the general rules, and the assessment of each substance according to these general rules is for me to see best by authorities that have a particular insight into toxicology, etc. In 2017, a new authorisation was granted in the EU and had preceded an assessment by EFSA, which thoroughly examines whether a substance is a carcinogen, whether it harms genetic facilities or whether it poses a different health hazard. We didn't consider that to be the case with glyphosate. The government supported the renewed approval because, on the basis of the Environmental Protection Agency's advice, we agreed with the assessment. However, there has also been a discussion about co-formulants, which is why the government supported the ban on the problematic excipient tallowamine contained in some Glyphosate-containing pesticides throughout the EU immediately after the re-approval of glyphosate in 2017. When the Danish EPA re-evaluates the glyphosate agents, they will, as always, ensure that they are approved only under conditions that ensure that their use does not harm either humans or the environment. This is true both for example. consumption of food where glyphilate has been used and in relation to groundwater. In relation to groundwater, glyphate is one of the most studied substances in the early warning system for the leaching of pesticides into groundwater, and its results show that the agricultural uses of glyphate do not pose a risk to groundwater. As far as the use of glyphate funds by private individuals is concerned, it is a consequence of the recently concluded Supplementary Agreement to the Agreement on Pesticide Strategy 2017-2021... that, from 1 July 2020, private individuals may purchase only what they call ready-to-use funds and thus not have access to concentrated glyphate funds. And so, among other things, will be the case. ensure that individuals do not overdose. To sum up, the government considers that there is no basis for a general ban, nor is it considered possible to impose a national ban within the framework of Union law, unless there is new knowledge showing that there is an unacceptable risk. Against this background, the government rejects the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124143954	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144001	Well, I think the problem with glyphosat is that the experts disagree. I am well aware that the European Union then has an authorisation procedure in which it is EFSA that is processing, but here we are dealing with a case where the World Health Organisation, including 97 of the world's leading cancer doctors, has been looking at glyphosate and has come to a conclusion that it is likely to be carcinogenic or possibly carcinogenic. This means that one can then choose to say whether there is no precautionary principle about these approvals, which should be greater than what the European Union is practicing. That is why we have tabled this proposal. We think that when there are such serious warnings about our health, health must take the lead. Sometimes we challenge the EU system. After all, we did so on the bishop A... we passed a ban. And so it was the European Union that subsequently changed its rules. Can the Minister not see that it may be sensible to challenge the EU system at times?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144115	I think it makes sense to challenge all systems at times, but when we look at the differences between the two entities that we are talking about here, that is, what is under the WHO, and then what is under the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, there is a reason why we have not come up with the same assessment. It is that you compare a little pears with bananas, because they are two different things that have been assessed. In other words, more data has been available on the European side. Under the auspices of the World Health Organization, data are available in the open literature, while the data to be produced by firms in connection with applications to the European Union have also been available under the auspices of the European Union. So there has been a larger and more robust data material on the European side. It can then be said that the WHO has assessed studies with purely glyphosate and studies with glyphosate agents, that is to say, those which also contain different excipients, under one, while in the European Union, which is what we are following, we have examined only those that are purely glyphosate, that is, those that we are also talking about here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144231	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144234	In reality, the substances are used with co-formulants, so that it can stick to the plant's leaves, for example. There is, after all, the Minister's statement that it is not possible to rely on EFSA's review of it. I am also somewhat concerned when you read in The Guardian that the material, the report that has come from Germany, when the environmental assessment was to be carried out in EFSA, is very much a copy of Monsanto's own work. Can the Minister not see that there are several things in this which make one have good reason to be concerned about these approval procedures?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144319	When we talk about these inputs, it is precisely because, as I said in my speech before, we were in favour of banning them. That's where it makes sense. If that is where the problem arises, then it is not glyphate as such that we are going to ban. I agree that this is a proposal that Enhedslisten makes on a regular basis, but I do not share the view that neither does the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, nor does the European Agency EFSA.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144354	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144401	I would just like to put a brief question to the Minister, because now the Minister mentioned this renewed process of approval that was in the European Union, and there were a number of EU countries who were concerned and who certainly did not want to support the long period of approval that the European Union had first set up. We share that concern. Of course, you have to be safe as a Dane with the pesticides used in Denmark, and therefore there may not be any reason why you give as long a period of approval as was planned by 10 years, and indeed you managed to get it down to 5 years, contrary to what the government really wanted. So I just want to know if the Minister disagrees with his predecessor in the post, who recommended that glyphosat be approved for a 10-year period, and whether it is really a good place, you have landed now, when it is this 5-year period. This gives both a signal to the industry that one should try to look at alternatives, and also an opportunity, one can say that diving further into the differences that exist and getting some more knowledge in the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144504	I think the most important thing is the professional assessment. As to whether the time period is 10 or 5 years, I think it is fine with a 5-year period. Then you have the opportunity to review it at that time. I just want to deal with that delusion, which there seem to be in some places, that this is such a special Danish phenomenon. It is therefore also a substance that has been approved in all other European countries. It is not the case that there are countries in the European Union that have banned glyphosate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144539	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and then we go ahead and start on the rapporteur's line. The first is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144554	Thank you. In the Social Democratic Party we agree with the proposers that we should limit pesticides as much as possible and that we should protect our drinking water and, of course, human health from harmful substances from pesticides. That is why I am also pleased with the progress which we have managed to negotiate and which is drawing Denmark in a greener direction. From now on, we must not be sprayed in the borehole protection areas for the sake of our drinking water. It is a huge victory that we have worked for too long. There will also be a ban on selling concentrated pesticides to private individuals, because, as Enhedslisten correctly writes, one might easily overdosage, and there is certainly no reason for that. So that's why it's going to be forward-looking these ready-to-use products that will be sold. We have also given priority to research into the effects of pesticides on human health, we have introduced a ban on spraying with glyphate in fields where food is grown after crops have sprung up, and then we have also been given greater control over the things imported across the border, because I think we are also aware that there may be some other conditions that apply, but we can also pull some slightly more scratching substances across the border, and of course we should not accept that. So we have helped to ensure a number of improvements. In the specific proposal there are several problems with the ban proposed. We share the concern about glyphosat. We have also been involved in a minority opinion when it came to re-approval in the European Union, and we have also had the Minister in consultation, and we managed to get this shorter approval period despite the government, which wanted it to be ten years old. So we're very aware of this area. However, we disagree with Enhedslisten that a ban should come into force now in 2 months time by an active substance that has been used much in Denmark; we cannot prohibit it either, according to EU law, and EFSA has considered the substance to be safe in terms of health. So, rather than dealing with these individual substances in this Chamber, we are working through the pesticide strategy agreement circle to limit pesticides as much as possible and through the EU to push for tougher requirements, and among other things. some short approval periods, so that industry also takes it down clearly when there is a signal that we want them to look at more sustainable alternatives. So we do not support the proposal today, and I have also promised to salute the Radicals and say that neither do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144834	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144839	I understand that the rapporteur has a scepticism about glyphosate and, at the same time, emphasizes what little progress can be made. There are, of course, a number of questions here as to whether Glyphosate can be banned in Denmark. There is the Danish EPA in saying that you cannot, but you can see on page 2, that there are still some opportunities to take some small steps, and I would like to hear about the Social Democracy being able to take part in this. Among other things, it says: Here: Under the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides, Member States may adopt specific restrictions on pesticide use in specific areas used in public or sensitive groups, such as: in public parks, recreational areas, sports grounds, playgrounds, educational institutions for children and around hospitals etc. It was nice to know that there is in fact the possibility of a ban on some public areas here. Will the Social Democrats be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124144938	As the rapporteur is well aware, we ourselves were involved in the negotiation of the last pesticide strategy, and there was a very clear area of action for us to say that public areas should not be sprayed. So we have the objective of not using pesticides, but, as the rapporteur knows, this is something we are working on, and it is also going down, but we are not supporting this ban that the proposers are putting forward today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145006	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145009	I understand that the total ban is not being backed up. Then it was just that I referred to the fact that the Danish Environmental Protection Agency says that there is a possibility of making such a ban on land where there is a particular consideration. After all, I think it would be very sensible to have a spray ban in day-care centres, and this should apply to all pesticides. Does the rapporteur not see that this is fair? I cannot really understand why the rapporteur is not just saying that they want to be part of the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145041	It is because I think that the Enhedslisten is a little too quick with this resolution that we are debating in the Chamber today. In the minority opinion, in which Enhedslisten also has a section in, one is also prepared that if there is to be a phasing-out, it is over a period of perhaps 2-5 years. I think that's what Enhedslisten wrote in. That is why it may be a little too easy to debate. However, I would very much like to take part in the committee's proceedings in looking at whether we can do even more, whether we can be even more progressive in the green area. There we are often allies with the Enhedslisten and would like to press this government to be more green. So we'd like to take a look at that. But we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145120	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we give the floor to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Adelsteen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145127	Thank you. Like the previous Social Democratic rapporteur and the Minister, we cannot support the proposal either in the Danish People's Party. I simply do not know how one has realistically imagined that we are per. March 1st was supposed to ask everyone not to use glyphosat. I find that hard to see at all realisable. I think that when we make pesticide agreements and when we have some people who are really smart in this area, we should also listen to them. What I'm aware of is that glyphosat is probably one of the most tested substances of all. I am also aware that we do not know all these so-called cocktail effects and that we must, of course, always be aware of whether there is something better, whether there is something we can do differently and so on. etc. But as I see it and as we see it in the Danish People's Party, our answer to the proposal so far is no. We do not know what the alternative would be, and we do not know how else to deal with it. So that's a no from here. I would just like to say, since the rapporteur of the Left is in the chair and therefore cannot be on the floor, that the Left also rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145258	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145302	Well, it's gonna be exciting. At least we have a motion for a resolution here which goes quite far on the agricultural side and which the Left does not do well today. Then we will have to take the debate at another time. When you table such resolutions, it is sometimes that you do so in good time. I can easily see that 1 March of this year is not a very realistic date. Indeed, we will be prepared to postpone it for one year if that is what can be achieved by a majority around it. We will be completely open to that. I would then like to hear from the rapporteur whether these opportunities exist to ban pesticides on certain specific areas, for example. I think that sounds quite reasonable to me, was not something we could gather around, so we certainly took care of a little more than what other agreements have done so far. It says in black and white that we can make rules which relate to specific public areas, which may be around a day's institution. Does the rapporteur not see that it would be sensible to impose a ban there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145414	No, I really can't. In fact, in the Danish People's Party, we also think that local democracy works quite well. I'm familiar with the fact that it's out in the municipalities that you decide. There are also municipalities that are completely glyphosate-free or Roundup-free, and some are not. But it is therefore a decision that is made out there and often it is taken into account for many different things. It is the case that the substance glyfosat is approved, and as long as it is, and as long as I see it there is not a great risk of using it, I have no problem at all with it being used.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145451	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145454	Then I can only call on the rapporteur to examine what kind of resolution the Danish People's Party is putting forward over a year, and then think about whether it was not something that could be left to the local self-government to deal with, rather than the Folketing having to regulate matters and matters in detail. But there can be so many suggestions. In fact, I think that we have a duty here to protect environmental interests and health interests for the whole population, and that is why I really think that a ban on spraying poisons in day care institutions would be entirely within what I think is reasonable for the Folketing to be able to ensure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145528	But it is quite clear that we in the Danish Parliament have a role to play in ensuring that the decision on what to do or what not to do and what is a danger or not a danger is given to the locals. But as I started by saying, glyfosat is as I've seen it, one of the most controlled drugs, and in my eyes it's got a green stamp from some who know something about it. Then I am aware that there is a debate on co-formulants and so on, but we are not sitting in the Danish People's Party and saying that this just has to be stopped. It is legal, it is legal to use, and then you have to find out locally whether to continue using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145613	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and then we can move on to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124145621	Thank you for the floor. The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution on banning the sale of the active substance glyfosate in Denmark. There is an authorisation system for pesticides based on professionalism in the European Union and Denmark which ensures that neither humans, animals nor the environment are exposed to unacceptable effects on pesticides, including glyphosate. The pesticide is regulated according to very strict EU rules and the product is subsequently authorised at national level, but with the possibility of a ban only if there is an unacceptable risk, for example. Danish groundwater or human health. The authorisation system for pesticides, which has also been tightened up over time, has in recent years in Denmark phased out many pesticides, and in particular the protection of groundwater has weighed heavily in this respect. However, as the Minister so well concluded in the past, contemporary pesticides are only approved if the pesticide is considered not to pose a risk to health and the environment. This assessment includes tests for the risk of leaching to groundwater and health effects, which have also included many safety margins in the authorisation system, so that the overall risk is assessed as very low, both as regards the risk of leaching as a risk of pesticide residues in food and as regards the impact on other organisms, for example. Bugs and the like. Many years of focus on a so-called good spray behaviour in training the farmer with spray courses and the introduction of spray certificates give another boost to the protection of our groundwater, as well as requiring the preparation of spray records etc. Agriculture, for example, has a high level of income. Newer, modern spray technology is also introduced, for example. be GPS systems, it may be precision allocation, etc., which further forward-looking will actually reduce the risk of loss to the environment. And then we'll be better off with our groundwater. Year after year, at least the younger part of our groundwater becomes cleaner, and there are now almost exclusively decomposements of prohibited substances in the studies carried out. In other words, the authorisation system for pesticides has worked, but unfortunately it is going to take a very long time for the old funds, including their degradation products, to disappear completely from groundwater. The current funds are not going down through the soil profile; we actually know this from our so-called VAP fields and our groundwater monitoring. Glyphosate has been used for decades in all countries of the European Union, and glyphosate poses no unacceptable risk. The confidence that we in the Liberal Alliance and everyone else in this Chamber should have in the authorities in this area means that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150019	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150023	One of the things that worries us is that experts disagree. And then you have the World Health Organization with a number of leading cancer doctors who are in and assessing things and come to the conclusion that glyphate here is probably carcinogenic or possibly carcinogenic. And then there is an authorisation procedure in the European Union, which is based on some other things, and then you come to the conclusion that it is not carcinogenic. Then we think that one can take the view that one should be careful when there are experts who say that this is a matter of substance that is carcinogenic. Then, through the debate here today, we have come to the conclusion that the EU system has measured only on glyphate and has not included in the studies the co-formulants which should allow the glyphate to hang on to plants or to hang on to the fingers of a child in a day-care institution. So I think there is reason to adopt a precautionary principle here. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150134	Thank you for the question. I remember now that a little earlier in the day when we also had a debate on a motion for a resolution from the same author of the motion for a resolution, several times asked whether I could not see it. And again, I can just say, my vision is fine. One might say that it is in the nature of experts, researchers, university researchers and in their job description that they have to disagree, that there has to be constant development, new studies, new studies and new knowledge are being created, etc., and this, of course, leads to disagreement. That will always be the case, and of course, as politicians, we must take note of that, and so do we. I think the Minister has already explained very well the depth of EFSA's study in this area. Caution? Yeah, we always have to be careful. The proposer and the author belong to what I would call the worried left, where the precautionary principle may sometimes take over a little in terms of rational, logical thinking, one might say. I do not belong to that part of the political spectrum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150256	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150258	Well, at least I think it's nice to be worried. And if there are then some cancer researchers who are battling a worry and come to say that there may be a health risk, then of course we are listening to it, and because this substance, glyphate, is so widespread in our agriculture, and because we have such a huge agricultural area, it actually matters. You can then, when you have measured the levels of glyphose in the German population, see figures showing that it is virtually everyone who has glyphose in the urine. That is to say, it is something that is consumed with food, and some of it then comes out again. What does it mean for the organism? I think there is every reason to flag that there is a health aspect by using glyphosat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150344	Well, of course, these are all perfectly legitimate considerations, as the authorities, the Environmental Protection Agency and the EU bodies that deal with this are also doing. As I concluded with my rapporteur's speech, I am quite confident in the assessment of the authorities in this context, and I believe that both Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen and everyone else present in this Chamber today and the entire Danish population and the whole European population can be comfortable with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150419	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. Then there are no further comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150426	This proposal, and the discussion about Roundup and Glyphosat in general, is part of the great discussion about the great chemical experiment that we have been engaged in with the last two or three generations of the world. Today we have more than 200,000 chemical substances that we use in many different ways with greater or less degrees of freedom. The vast majority of these chemicals can be used, and only after a number of studies have been carried out and you may find out that the substances are dangerous will you start to regulate them. This is something else that applies when we talk about pesticides and pesticides, because it is actually the case that we can only use the active substances that have been approved for this particular use, and this should then be considered as reassuring. However, I do not share the confidence that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has just expressed in the system. In my view, the regulatory system we have put together in the European Union for chemicals is strongly dominated by the interests of industry, both the agro-industry and the chemical industry, and I am convinced that there is a very unbalanced balance in how the use of chemicals is, in terms of how we should be protected from chemicals. It's not just us as people, it's also nature. For example: There are many of these assessment methods that in my view are too superficial. One looks at the impact on humans either directly or through drinking water, one looks at terrestrial organisms, but there are many natural aspects that are not involved in these assessment systems. Fortunately, if you think so, we have the precautionary principle, which is a broad and recognised principle in the European Union, but which is often interpreted in my view far too lightly. In fact, we often hear the industry put forward • I myself have been sitting at meetings in Brussels in connection with it many times a few years ago • that we now need to apply the precautionary principle, which means that we need to be very careful whether we should regulate here at all, because we need to be able to make money on the chemical substances we have developed. There I see the precautionary principle in a completely different way. For me, the precautionary principle is an expression of the fact that, when we are in doubt, we must use that doubt to regulate, in other words limit the use, in this case of potent, dangerous chemicals, to take nature or human beings into account until we are 100% sure that there is no risk at all. That is why the alternative supports the proposal put forward here by Enhedslisten, which is about phasing out the use of glyphose as soon as possible. We ourselves have thought that this should at least happen in 2022, when the current extension expires. After all, there have just been a number of negotiations on glyphate under the auspices of the European Union, and in December 2017, I think it was decided to extend the approval for five years, and when it expires, it is obvious to us that the use of glyphate will have to stop because of all the doubts about spreading and effects. But we are also in favour of a much faster phasing-out, but if it can be reached this year, I think maybe a little unrealistic in practical terms, but we are fully in favour of a rapid phasing-out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150823	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150826	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine contribution from the rapporteur. After all, we have some dietary advice I don't even really remember who it is, it's probably the Danish Health Authority or some other board that has some dietary advice about the Danes' recommended diet. In fact, I think I would like to ask the alternative about the alternative diet advice for the Danes. The alternative must have some dietary advice for the Danes... I'm sure of that. What are some dietary advice and recommendations the alternative has for the Danes until the researchers are 100% agreed on e.g. risk assessment on glyphosate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124150915	We have actually, funny enough, recently discussed whether we should not propose some slightly different dietary advice than those that are today. And that is because today's dietary advice alone has such a narrow, nutritional focus. It would also be good here to lay down the UN's 17 global goals, the sustainability objectives, over the dietary councils, and you could also lay down the Paris Agreement's climate targets over the dietary councils, and that would then result in eating significantly less meat. But it's kind of a different story. What we would recommend, and as I think many of our Members already do, is to eat organically, as far as is possible. That is simply because the precautionary principle is applied in practice in this way. When you eat organically, you have an absolutely minimal and much lower load with spray poisons and degradation products from spray poisons than if you eat conventionally. So if you have the concern that I also have, then I would recommend that you choose organically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151020	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151021	I thought the alternative had some advice for the Danes. So I'm glad I got to ask you that, and that's what Mr. Christian Poll has an opportunity to tell the Danes about the alternative's diet advice. What advice will the alternative give to those Danes who may not be able to afford to buy organic products exclusively or in areas where organic products may not be available? As I know, if you stick to Danish food, especially when we talk fruit and vegetables, as I remember at least, you can minimize the intake of residues of pesticides on fruit and vegetables, not that the impact is great and poses a health risk, but you can eliminate it altogether, in any case, by buying Danish. Could it be a dietary council that the alternative would give to the Danes, that is to say to eat more Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151122	If it is about economics, and it always does to some extent, then I would say that I know more students who eat quite consistently ecologically. And the way to make it stick together is typical by turning down your meat consumption. For some of what is a great cost in the daily diet are the elements of meat that are. I am not saying that people need to become vegetarians or vegans, but if you like. If you reduce your meat consumption to only eating meat a few times a week, you will actually get a lot of air in the budget that you can use so to be more consistent with ecology.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151201	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151207	It is not surprising that the SF is very positive about the proposal to work towards a ban on glyphosat, but that if it is to bear something, it must also have a real chance not to become a legal fight between Denmark and the European Commission. This requires that we have a government that will fight at European level for a ban on glyphosat, and we do not have that at the moment. The current government refers to the EFSA's refusal to have carcinogenic properties for glyfosate. In other contexts, e.g. In relation to neoniks, this is the proper way of expressing it... the government does not listen to EFSA and overrides the EU ban with a Danish derogation from the ban. If it had been a very similar chemical in toys, the government would have been very likely to have been positive, but now it is agricultural chemicals used in incredibly large quantities and on which Danish farmers have made themselves deeply dependent. The government will therefore accept a much greater margin for damage to health and the environment than if it had been for a toy containing substances with a corresponding risk of health or environmental effects, and that is not because I think that the government should relax the requirements for toys. That's not how it's supposed to be. The Enhedslisten's proposal marks the current fronts in the debate on glyphosat, but as I hear the debate, there is not really anything new under the sun in the Assembly Hall. However, I would like to say with regard to the extension of approval for the five years that were made, that we are supposed to spend that time in Denmark to phase it out, and there I miss an ambitious offer as to how we will get it done. How can we do this in such a way that we can actually put an end to its use in agriculture? Because I believe that once the five years have passed, it may well be that there will be no extension of the approval of glyphosate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151429	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Erik Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151438	Thank you. Climate, environment, clean drinking water and much more will always be conservative issues, which is why it is also very important for us to have restrictive regulation of, for example. pesticides. Today, the authorisation of pesticides is already under very strict rules, but we must, of course, constantly assess whether the use of pesticides poses a risk to health or the environment, and if there is the slightest risk, use must be stopped immediately. When Conservatives cannot support Enhedslisten's proposal for a total ban on the sale of herbicides and pesticides with the active substance glyphosate, it is partly due to the fact that glyphosate was re-approved in the EU as late as 2017 and partly because glyphosate is one of the most studied substances in the early warning system for leaching of pesticides into groundwater. Something else is so private use of glyphosat funds, where the government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the SF and Radicals signed an additional agreement less than 14 days ago to the Pesticide Strategy Agreement 2017-2021 Roundup, but only allowed to buy ready-to-use drugs. Conservatives cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151604	There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124151623	One might ask in this Chamber whether it is possible to achieve anything by challenging the EU's inadequate environmental policy. Can an EU country try to take the lead? Yeah, you can do that. After all, the Danish Parliament adopted a ban on bisphenol A, and this resulted in a change in environmental policy in the EU. We have also seen that in some EU countries there is strong opposition to GMO cultivation. Then it has been difficult to come up with common rules for GMO cultivation, and this has meant that the European Union has accepted that different rules can be applied in different EU countries. What about Enhedslisten's proposal for a ban on glyphosat? Yes, the European Union has, after all, extended the approval for five years until December 2022. Trine Torp's question about what you do in Denmark was kind of good. You don't do anything, I guess. You do nothing, you expect something about the EU making another extension. But this is really a good question, because we do have an agricultural industry where glyphate is the most widely used poison, and if we come to the conclusion that suddenly in 2022 there will not be an extension in the European Union, what does Danish agriculture do? What is being done on public land? I find that interesting. After all, in the debate in the European Union, there were a number of countries that did not want approval as long as five years, and there were, as such, nine countries that voted against the extension. If you look at what a process has been, I think it has been very worrying that in the EU process there has been a report which was the basis for the extension, a good part of which was directly copied from Monsanto's own report on glyphosat. I don't think it's trusting. And it is not at all reassuring to see that the World Health Organization and its cancer researchers come to the conclusion that glyphate is likely to be carcinogenic or possibly carcinogenic. Is there more going on in Europe? Yes, Macron in France has said that he will impose a ban after three years. If he does, it is in relation to the approval that is. France will then come into conflict with what the European Union allows. I can inform you that the Enhedslisten has worked with left-wing parties in Europe, where this proposal in some form will be put forward in several parliaments in other European countries. I have also noted that in a reply the Danish EPA does not believe that we can adopt a general ban on glyfosate, which Enhedslisten has presented here. But the same answer then says that we have the possibility of being restrictive of the use on certain areas. I think there is really good reason to go ahead with this and see if, after an election, I am not listening to it in today's debate. I could become a majority, which would impose a ban on the use of playgrounds and sports grounds, etc. It is actually quite wild that it is allowed to spray glyphose in a playground. Now we have an authorisation in the European Union, where we have only dealt with glyphosate, but we have not dealt with the mix that is when using some excipients that allow glyphosate to stick to leaves. Then it will probably be able to stick to clothes or to the fingers of a child. So I actually think there is a precautionary principle that we should unfold to become a reality in Denmark that you don't spray with glyphate in playgrounds etc. It has been mentioned here in the debate that it was unrealistic that it should be implemented on 1 March 2019. Yes, but that is the history of submitting a motion for a resolution. Then it will be time for it to be dealt with in the Parliamentary Chamber. So we would be quite comfortable with it if it could be adopted on 1 March 2020. Then I would like to repeat that we are faced with the fact that the World Health Organisation's cancer agency is also looking at this, looking at glyphosat, and that is with the excipients. And that is actually a more reasonable consideration, because the use of glyphate with co-formulants in the field, in public areas. So I really think it is worth noting what they come up with from recommendations. I also think it is thought-provoking that when you sometimes test people, if you have glyphose in your body, it turns out that it is so widespread. A few years ago, MEPs, at least those who were environmental rapporteurs, were offered such a test, and even if you eat a diet where there should be quite a bit of glyphate in it, it still bounces out so you can measure it in the urine. It's one thing, then, what it is for the human organism and our health. Something else is what's going on out in nature. And thank you to Christian Poll for the speech, because when you have such approval procedures, you can't investigate everything. If you look at our agricultural land, you usually have an incredibly large focus on what kind of plants you grow and how what you sow can be used for feed or for human consumption. But you have very little focus on the microlife that is in the soil, and very little focus on whether there could be some substances that, in fact, inhibited it microlife. There's probably something more focused on what these drugs are doing out in our aquatic environment. You measure that. There again, however, we have a problem with the fact that these are very small organisms which can be affected by some spray poisons or pesticide residues. So a higher precautionary principle than what is currently being practised in the European Union, I think there is absolutely reason to go for it. After all, the EU's precautionary principle is that producers must prove that a substance is not dangerous. And how extensive is that supposed to be? Has it been adequately taken into account the harmful effect it may have on the microlife of the soil surface? We need EU countries to dare to challenge and take the lead in environmental matters. That's why we're making this proposal. We are therefore in favour of challenging the EU system. We think that each EU country should have the opportunity to go further environmentally than can be adopted in all countries. I would like to thank the Left for not changing our proposal today. And I would like to thank the SF and the alternative for having supported the proposal, and I listened that I could not rule out the possibility of taking small steps with the Social Democratic Party after an election. I think this should be implemented in particular in terms of restricting the use of pesticides in some public areas, which are also used for recreational purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124152404	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124152418	The debate is open and the first speaker is the Social Democrat rapporteur. And this is sir. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124152443	Today we have to deal with a wide range of amendments to both the Aliens Act and other laws. The proposals translate the agreements reached in the negotiations on the Financial Act for 2019. Social democracy basically supports the need for refugees to be protected as long as they are needed. It is the very spirit of the refugee convention that protection must be guaranteed and that it must be temporary. In practice, however, this is unfortunately not the case. Many refugees who need protection do not get it, while others who have been granted a residence permit as refugees and no longer need it will never return. In fact, it is the main rule for refugees in Europe that most of them stay here in Denmark. That's nine out of ten. The so-called paradigm shift is therefore, in our view, most of all a question of common sense. But the political expression is the easiest. The most difficult thing, then, is the concrete legal and practical implementation of common sense, in other words to ensure that temporary nature becomes actually temporary. When the current President of the Social Democratic Party was Minister of Justice, the real work began on the concept of temporaryity. In fact, we were given a completely new provision on temporary protection in the Aliens Act, which several thousand special Syrian refugees have subsequently been granted a residence permit on the basis of. They need protection because of the general conditions in their country of origin. The then Socialist-led government also denied the right to obtain family reunification and changed the requirements for the withdrawal of the residence permit, so that refugees with protection status should be sent home when conditions in their country of origin allow. During this parliamentary term, the government has been involved, among other things. The support of the Social Democratic Party then took further steps in the same direction. For refugees with temporary protection status, the right to family reunification is now postponed from one year to three years, and today we are dealing with a legislative proposal that takes one more step. The draft law emphasises that residence permits are generally granted to refugees for temporary stays and not as now, when some are given it with the possibility of permanent residence. However, the rules governing the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit do not change. The current proposal also emphasises that the limit on the date on which we withdraw a residence permit will now be the rights protected by the Convention and the case law developed in the courts, not the concerns we have today in Article 26 of the Aliens Act. This is a step towards temporaryity, which we can also support. In the Social Democratic Party we are also pleased with the proposal that people with dual citizenship should have the opportunity to renounce their Danish citizenship and return home voluntarily with the support of the Danish state. In Denmark, we are doing what we can to make integration succeed, and many are doing so. The municipalities provide accommodation, doctor, day care, school, Danish education and employment programmes. In local communities, we welcome many new citizens. Voluntary associations offer friends and mentoring. Much of it works well, but much of it is also difficult. If, despite all this integration work, people want to return to their own country, they should not, in our view, remain in Denmark for economic reasons. On the contrary, they need help and support to go home themselves. On the other hand, we are so opposed to the proposal to reduce the integration allowance by DKr 2 000. to families with children. We believe that it will make it difficult to live a good child life in Denmark. We would therefore suggest that this part of the bill should be tampered with and dealt with separately. We want to vote against that proposal. If the Social Democratic Party wins the elections, we will instead set up a commission which, no later than 12 months after the elections, will have to make a bid on how to create a broad majority on the benefits of a stable majority. We think this is a better way of finding the right balance than through these constant changes adopted by a small majority in the Folketing. Finally, we are surprised that the Minister chooses to rush through this bill without first incorporating the consultation responses from the many organisations. Of course, there may be situations where it is important to put forward a legislative proposal early and adopt it quickly if the content itself is urgent. But in our view this is not the case here. Whether it comes into force on 1 March or 1 April does not matter. We therefore very much agree with the criticism made by both the President of the Danish Parliament and the Danish Refugee Service. In those words, we look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124152917	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124152922	Thank you. I also have a number of challenges with mixing this bill with so many things. Now the Social Democrats are asking for the bill to be split up and, by the way, they call it common sense. Would it be possible to divide things up so that we could vote on them individually, and would the rapporteur explain how the social democrats stand in relation to the part about Lindholm and the part about deleting the word 'integration' into all policies? It goes through the 175-page bill that the word integration and integration efforts should be taken out. I think that is somewhat contrary to some of what the rapporteur said was important for the effort, among other things. the one that is going on in the municipalities. Is this something the rapporteur could imagine dividing up, and how do the Socialists stand against deleting the word integration all the way through our legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153030	Now there are over 100 different legislative changes, and I am quite sure that the Radical Left also agrees that we should not have this split into 100 different legislative proposals. We think it is reasonable that the part dealing with benefits should be dealt with separately at least. We have a separate interest in this because we want to vote against it. That is what matters to us. Nor do I think it is wise to change the name to a not-so-mouthed self-support and return grant. We are in favour of an integration policy in Denmark. In fact, on January 1, 2019, the world's first integration law was able to celebrate its 20th birthday, and we are pleased and proud that we have helped to introduce it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153111	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153113	So if we table amendments together that we should not change the title of the return service, but that it should continue to be called "integration benefit', "integration programmes', whatever we like about the benefit, will the Socialists vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153133	Is it not a little strange that the debate is going to be about words? We think that home travel and self-employment benefits are a bad word. We think that integration benefits are a better word, but what is supposed to mean the most for the people we are talking about here and for Danish society is the rate, and there we think that a reduction of DKK 2 000. for lonely and 1,000 kr. For Dad and Mom, if they live together, it's crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153200	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153201	I would also like to ask the position of the Social Democratic Party on the part of the bill that integrating, getting a job, learning Danish and other things should no longer play a special role in the possibility of residence. I mean, it's like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. The trade union movement, in other words the new main organisation, warns very clearly in the consultation response that it will make it more difficult to integrate and that it will reduce the opportunity for them to do a job to welcome refugees and make them part of our society with them. Does the Social Democrats agree with that view, and if so, what will the Social Democrats do after an election to correct the mistakes made with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153250	Today it is the case that, in assessing the relationship under the Aliens Act, there are a large number of factors that are being assessed in the light of: children, residence time, links with the labour market, language and much more, and there will be in the future too. What is the difference is that it will not now appear in Section 26 of the Aliens Act, but as we can read from the Bill, it will appear in a note on the Ministry's website, which will be drawn up on the basis of the judgments that have fallen before the international courts. It can be said a little square: the assessment of whether links have been achieved is not based on the paragraph of the Aliens Act, but on the case law developed by the Conventions. I must admit that and we have also asked a little about it in some committee questions that I find it very difficult to see what the difference is. For my experience is that section 26 and the assessments made after it are already in line with the conventions. That is why I have some doubts as to how much effect this will actually have. But that does not change the fact that I think it is reasonable that we should leave the conventions as the starting point for the assessment of affiliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153354	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153356	Okay, so if this was separated as an independent part of the proposal, would the Social Democratic Party vote in favour? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? This means, therefore, that in this question we are taking a completely different view from that of the trade union movement and virtually all other consultative parties, who say very clearly that this change will make integration more difficult. It will make it harder to make people who come here to our colleagues and our neighbors and those we meet down in the union, it will push people away from us. In spite of this, however, it is the view of the Social Democratic Party that this is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153433-2	It is not my view that it makes integration difficult for us to allow the judgments of the conventions to be the basis for the withdrawal of a residence permit, as opposed to today, when this is done under that paragraph of the Aliens Act. I do not agree with that assessment. Our opinion is that it must be possible to say to people: Welcome to Denmark, we would like to give you protection, here is a residence, here is a doctor we would like you to contribute and learn Danish. Then we also have the handshake that we now formulate a little more clearly when people get the residence permit, that if there is peace in their country of origin, then the starting point is also that they should go home unless links have been established in accordance with the provisions of the international conventions and the case law subsequently developed. I think that is actually a clear message, and perhaps it is a message that we have not given clearly enough so far. But it's actually one of the things I think is best in the bill. It is a little clearer when people get the residence permit that the starting point here is temporary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153531	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I may not have followed it properly, but I think there is a little uncertainty as to what the Social Democratic Party thinks about the bill. So I just need to know, how is that supposed to be? So, does the Social Democratic Party support the bill that is here? If it comes to the vote, will the Social Democrats vote 'yes' or will they vote'red'? Now the Social Democratic Party has gradually developed into the yellow party and not the red party. You vote yellow for several things, including Lindholm etc. So I'd like to know. What exactly is the social democracy's approach to this bill? Do you support the bill or do you not support the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153609	Thank you for the question. As I also said to the Radical Left rapporteur, there are over 100 legislative changes in this bill, and by far most of that we think is sensible. But there is also some of what we do not think is sensible, for example. to reduce the benefit to a single mother, a fugitive, by 2,000 kroner. a month, so she'll come down to 10,000 kroner. Before taxes. We would very much like to vote against this. Then there is a lot that we would very much like to vote for, among other things. everything about the withdrawal of residence permits. And that's why we're gonna call on the Danish Parliament to split up this bill, so that among other things. The Social Democratic Party I also hope other parties can deal specifically with the various elements, instead of mixing up over a hundred legislative changes on several different laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153652	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153653	But is it so important for the Social Democratic Party to provide higher benefits to foreigners who come to Denmark and who have not been in Denmark for a long time? In other words, is it more important for the Social Democratic Party to ensure high benefits for foreigners coming to Denmark than to vote in favour of a legislative package, which all the other things being equal involves substantial tightening up of foreign policy and which creates a completely new repatriation policy? In other words, policy must be given priority every once in a while. What's the most important thing? And shall that answer, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye comes here, is it understood that the Social Democracy cannot actually support the bill that lies here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153730	I do not understand why this should become a technical discussion. We would very much like to have a political discussion on the benefits of integration. We are opposed to the proposal put forward by the government, which I suppose the Danish People's Party supports. We are in favour of the new ways of including residence permits and of a lot of the other proposals contained in this bill. And I imagine that it must be in the interests of both the government and the Danish People's Party that there should be as broad a majority as possible about the crucial elements of this bill. And that's why I'm calling for this to be split up so that we can have a substantive discussion instead of mixing it all together and then have a technical discussion about what weighs the heaviest.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153808	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153809	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a question, sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned in his rapporteur's speech that if the majority changes after an election and the Social Democracy should come to power, a grant commission will be set up. But if it turns out that this integration benefit is it could take months, it could take years. Would it not be better to abolish the benefit immediately?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124153845	I think this Parliament for 20 years has been clumping around in this. In 1999 the then Social Democratic Government actually introduced an integration benefit. Then Anker Jørgensen thought it was poverty-creating, and then it was removed again. Then Bertel Haarder introduced it and called it starter help. Then Helle Thorning-Schmidt removed it in 2011. Then Mrs Inger Løjberg introduced it in 2015 and it has been changed 4-5 times since the last parliamentary elections with the same arguments. Perhaps it was time for us to sit down and get together to look at both the housing support, the free space system, the benefits and the children's money together and to create a system that could create broad support in the Folketing and stability instead of this zigzag course. There is also a difference between whether you have to pay 8,000 kroner. for a three-bedroom apartment in Glostrup, or whether you have to pay half of it on Lolland. And this is not taken into account by the current system of benefits, which is why it pushes people without work to the areas of Denmark where the least new jobs are created. Moreover, what is being proposed today is that I was not told in my rapporteur's speech that the integration benefit should be reduced after three years. After all, it is not from day one where refugees come to Denmark. It is only after they have earned child support for three years, and it is to avoid falling below a constitutional level. It's something worse, worse mess that's been screwed up now. If anything is needed, it is that we are just breathing and getting something screwed up that makes sense geographically, that takes account of children and that does not create such an attractive service that it is a purpose in itself to seek asylum in Denmark. And that is not something that is suitable for easy headlines in an election campaign. But I actually think it's something that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154014	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154015	I am not particularly interested in what is suitable for easy headlines in an election campaign. I am interested in ensuring good integration in Denmark of the people who come here. And I don't think we do that by making them poorer. And I can see that it may be good to give a commission some peace of mind. But if we can see that this service is detrimental to integration and that those who are on it cannot afford to buy clothes for their children cannot afford to buy medicine, would it not be wise to abolish it while this commission is working?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154046	I agree that the current service, and in particular the service that will be created with this bill, is too low. We agree with that. But I also think that both Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party in this discussion have a responsibility not only to roll it all back to what was the rules between 2011 and 2015, because it didn't work either. It didn't. I also think we have a responsibility to try to see that it actually has a positive effect; that there is a noticeable effect on the people who have just arrived in our country from going to work. It should not be a marginal effect, it should be a noticeable effect. And it wasn't between 2011 and 2015, and it would be a political mistake, I also think, with socialist glasses, to ask the newly arrived refugees to hit the current level of cash assistance from day one. I don't think that would be the best way to start in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154138	Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154142	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that it is important for the Social Democratic Party with this focus on temporaryity, and then it is just that I think: Well, being a refugee in Denmark has almost always been about temporaryness, so it becomes symbolic politics, this whole thing about being out all of a sudden talking so much about temporaryness. With the exception of quota refugees, you have always had to be a refugee in a country until you could return home. It may then take a long time. It's a different side of the matter. So what this is all about isn't temporary. What this is all about is going to the edge of the conventions in relation to the inclusion of residence permits, in relation to the ceiling on family reunification, and going to the edge of the constitution in relation to the integration benefit. That is what all the consultation answers point to, in other words, to the fact that we are unable to integrate these refugees, that it is a barrier to integration and to their desire and motivation to work, to participate in civil society, etc. It is all the answers from the Red Cross to the Danish Business Administration that say the same thing: it is a barrier to integration. And that's kind of what Mr. Pelle Dragsted asked about this before, and I would like to ask again: does the Social Democrats not agree that this is a barrier to integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154252	In fact, I do not think it is right when the alternative says that it has always been about temporaryness. It is not long ago that the Committee on Foreign Affairs was sent a report which showed that nine out of ten of those who have been granted a residence permit as refugees and family members remain in the country. And I can actually understand that. For what they have been met with by the Danish system of both red and blue governments is in practice that once you have received the residence permit in Denmark, then the first half. The second half is permanent residence permit, and the third half is citizenship. It has been the completely natural development of trip, trap, clogs. So it may well be that we call the residence permit temporary, but in practice also in the municipal integration programmes we have considered it this way: Now starts a life which for the rest of the time must be in Denmark. And this is what I really think is just to take the consequence of calling it temporary, and that is also what I think is the spirit of the refugee convention, namely temporary protection during the period when it is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154354	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154356	Does this temporary nature also apply to quota refugees? Because that is one of the points in this bill, that is, that quota refugees are included in it, that they should also be sent home as soon as possible, despite the fact that the international commitments to quota refugees are, in fact, that it is about a long-term, one can say, and sustainable integration into society. And then back to my first question, to which I was not given an answer at all: does the Social Democrats not agree with virtually all the consultation answers that this bill is a barrier to integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154426	I agree that the reduced integration allowance is a barrier to integration. However, I do not agree with the idea that temporary residence permits should also be temporary as a starting point is an obstacle to integration. At least not so much a barrier to integration that we have to take it out. I think that much of this is about trying to be honest with people and saying: We would very much like you to become part of Danish society. And if the war in your homeland continues for so long that you end up getting a permanent residence permit, then it's an honest matter. Then, of course, you stay here. But if it does not last so long and it is possible to go home, then the stay is temporary as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154502	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154504	Thank you. I have a great deal of respect for sir. Mattias Tesfaye, because I always think you get a fairly clear answer. As I am listening to the debate here today, it is in some way an exception, because it is certainly not clear to me whether the Socialists intend to vote in favour of the draft law in the form in which it is now being discussed. But it may be, it is because we have not yet really discussed the intention with the proposal. After all, this is not about the places where integration has failed, but about the places where integration has gone well. Where so far, since the integration law, the aim has been to integrate people, among other things. has used it to gain access to permanent residence permits, etc. As an integrating measure, the bill will now ensure that although integration is going well, it should not be an excuse for not sending people home anyway. So it is they where integration has gone well, it is about. For example, when we see the FOA pointing out that thousands of their members are at risk of being sent home hardworking How many of them do the Socialists think should be sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154619	As I have read the FOA's hearing answer, that figure also includes the members they have on a permanent residence permit. That's why I think something might be messed up a little. At least that's my reading of it. I did not get the answer to the first thing Mrs Magdalene Maier said, namely about quota refugees, which I think is relevant. For our view is also that quota refugees are resettlement, which is why we are surprised that Article 8 (2) of the Treaty provides for the possibility of a derogation from the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. 1 and 2, i.e. quota refugee permits, are also covered by the regime on temporary status. Our starting point is that it is resettlement, and it is people who must stay in Denmark. Incidentally, I can hear that the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party have a common interest in this being dealt with together and being turned into a technical discussion. I would actually like to call on the Radical Left to maintain the political debate here. Then I can say that to the part about the paradigm shift, the Social Democrats will vote yes. We shall vote against the part dealing with the benefits of integration. If there are any questions about some specific elements of the bill, I would very much like to answer that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154722	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154723	Well, then we got a little more clarity about it. Because it's interesting that it's called a paradigm shift. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye wants it to be a natural extension of the refugee convention and one and the other. But the paradigm shift represents the fact that just because one has been well integrated in Denmark, one should not necessarily expect that then one can also have security about one's life. And I guess that's exactly what the FOA is reacting to. That is probably exactly the fact that you have thousands of members whose lives with one stroke are made uncertain when you are told that even if you work, even if you contribute, even if you are an active citizen, even if you have done everything you have had your ears full of and made a living, it is not enough to have secured your life in Denmark. That is just what we need to confirm that this is the position of the Socialists. There are too many refugees working with welfare on FOA's territory today. Some of them need to be sent home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154821	It is precisely when we talk about creating security and uncertainty that I think it is important to say that this is not about all foreigners here in Denmark. It is not even about all the foreigners who are here in Denmark on a temporary residence permit. It is about foreigners who are here in Denmark on a residence permit as refugees and family members. And is it really not fair for us to say to people: how sorry it is that there is war on your country, in Syria, for example. You should know that as long as you need protection, you get this in Denmark. We provide school, day care, doctor, everything we make available, and we really hope that you too will contribute. We will help you also to contribute. To the extent that there will be peace in your homeland, we will even support you, we will pay the plane ticket and support you financially to help your own homeland, and if you have been here for so long that you have gained association according to all the rules that apply under the conventions, then you can stay here. If you don't, we'll help you go home. Isn't that a fair deal? Is it not a good deal, both for society and for the people who receive protection?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154920	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124154922	Thank you. We are very pleased that the rapporteur will support some of this, but we are also sorry that it will then suddenly be split up. I hear a lot that the rapporteur says that we are also in favour of a paradigm shift. Part of this paradigm shift about temporaryness and the fact that people are going back home is that the benefit is also being reduced. So how can the rapporteur deal with the paradigm shift on the one hand, but still relate to some services that attract people to this country, on the other? Can the rapporteur explain this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155004	Now I do not know if there is a patent on the word paradigm change, but if there is, and if it is the Danish People's Party that owns the word, then I would say that I support the part of the paradigm change which is about including residence permits and temporaryities and which takes up a great deal, especially at the beginning of the law, and then we do not support the part that is about reducing income in families with children, which we think already lives a little too scraped.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155031	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155033	Thank you. I just can't understand how to divide it up. Does the rapporteur not agree with me that the more benefits you can get, the more benefits you can get, the more links you get with a country, and the more you apply for it? And I think that the rapporteur thinks the same as us. At least that is what I have heard in the rapporteur's speech and so on. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that services attract more people to this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155110	In fact, I think it is completely out of the question that if you have services that are significantly above your neighbouring countries, it has an impact on your influx. I think that should be common knowledge and recognition throughout the Folketing. But that is not the only consideration. I also think that we have another consideration, which is that children staying in Denmark should have the opportunity to wear proper clothes all year round and could go to children's birthdays and live a life that we consider to be fairly decent. And that is where we think we have gone a little bit to the edge of this bill and also a little above the edge of what we think is reasonable. If that were only one consideration, namely the influx, then you could reduce the benefits of integration to two dollars a day or whatever the United Nations says, but none of us are in favour of it. So we have to find the balance, and we think that this bill brings us even more out of balance than we should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155208	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155210	If this proposal isn't shared, that is, the part about benefits isn't being ripped out, what will S vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155228	We're counting on it to be shared. It's a common practice in the Folketing. So my mandate is that I shall have it shared and vote in favour of the bill and no to the part about the integration service. If this is not shared against expectations, then I must return to my group and inform them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155248	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155249	The reason I'm asking is that sir... Mattias Tesfaye, after all, called most of this bill common sense and stressed that there are a lot of good elements in the bill. Then I just think it is so interesting to know whether it is the most important thing for S that the benefits are not reduced, also seen in the light of the fact that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself admitted on the platform that the benefits play a role in relation to how many people come to Denmark. Then it weighs just as heavily that you will not vote for the majority of the bill, as Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself calls common sense? I just think that would be a funny priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155334	I don't think that's a funny priority. Isn't it just straight off the road? We support a great deal in a rather comprehensive legislative proposal, and we would like to support that. And then there's something we don't support. We would like to vote against this. Is there that much hocus-pocus in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155351	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155353	Thank you. I am also a little interested in the social democratic approach to the level of benefits. I think it is satisfactory that the Social Democrats are opposed to the reduction in the benefits of integration proposed here. It's okay. But I am a little concerned about what the services commission, which is to be set up, should deal with. I think so, sir. Mattias Tesfaye was out with, was a little out of control. There was something with some geographical considerations to be taken, etc., etc. If you came to Lolland, would you have a lower performance than you would have anywhere else? Can we get a more precise description of what you're going to do? When I ask, it's because somewhere I think that when Mr. Mattias Tesfaye then says that the benefits were too high from 2011 to 2015 and that those proposed now are too low, so must the level be somewhere in between, or what? To what extent is that true? I would like to question how big a problem it was between 2011 and 2015, also considering that both we and the Social Democrats were involved in implementing it at that time. How big was that problem, and is it necessary to make such a big fuss out of it as you do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155519	First of all, with the geography: it is no different than before we had the ceiling for cash benefits. After all, it was regulated in housing aid because rents are significantly higher in university towns than they are in rural areas. However, with the ceiling on cash benefits, a family of children on Lolland ends up with a somewhat higher amount of money in hand than a family of children, for example. The West. And we must remember that refugees do not decide where they settle. They will be assigned accommodation when they arrive in Denmark. Therefore, the amount of available resources may vary considerably depending on the municipality to which they are referred. I do not think that is a good thing, and it is not good either, because it is important that in these years we see a migration of people on transfer income from the larger cities and to some of the municipalities that already carry a large part of the social tasks for our society. We do not think that the current system of benefits takes this into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155622	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155624	But the issues that are mentioned about the benefits are an age-old problem. It's been there all the time I remember. These things have been discussed in the Folketing. This is a very, very old issue, on which major research reports have been produced and which ministries have dealt with. It's nothing new. That's why the interesting thing is: why is it right now that you're about to get to grips with this? Is it because the Social Democratic Party has little difficulty in finding out where the level of integration benefit should be? Can we not have a slightly clearer answer to what we have in mind in this area? As I said, we are pleased that we are opposed to what the government is proposing here, but could we not have some clearer indications as to what we are going to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155714	Well, I would like to draw it a little closer, that is to say, what principles we will be laying the foundations for such work in a Commission. Point 1: It must take account of these geographical differences. Paragraph 2: There has to be a noticeable difference between the minimum wage in the broad agreements and then what the level of benefit will be, including the allowances which are in the form of child benefit, free places, that is to say, when it is all taken together. Paragraph 3: Special attention must be paid to families with children. That is what we believe the current system has not taken into account. Paragraph 4: It should not in itself encourage people to seek asylum in Denmark. I might add my own personal point 5: it has to be a little more transparent than what is being put together now, when after three years you get a reduction in the benefit, and therefore you get a benefit that starts to be at a certain level, then it grows every 1⁄2 years for the first three years, and then it falls drastically after three years, and then it grows again every 1⁄2 years. It's a worse Storm P. model that's screwed up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155815	Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155818	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we think that temporaryness is extremely important. People must be sent home when there is peace in their homeland. We also think it is important that the services are so low that they do not act as a magnet, and we believe that integration should be reserved for those who should remain here forever. I note that the rapporteur is going to call the new service, which is no longer called 'integration benefit', 'integration benefit' and is opposed to the new return service tariff, as it is now called. How are we to believe that social democracy has a strict and coherent foreign policy when we hear these various statements? And how are we to believe that social democracy, if they get closer to power, will have the strength to put the temporary force through and actually send people home when they can't even figure out how to call it a return service?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124155923	If you want the Social Democracy to be strong, then you can vote for the Social Democracy. That's the way it is. Why do I call it an integration benefit? I do because that's what we've been calling it for many years. However, when Mrs Krarup of the Danish People's Party asks, perhaps it is also because she is fishing a little for whether the Social Democrats want to integrate the people who come here and get a temporary residence permit. The answer is this: yes, we also believe that integration policy should apply to those who come here as refugees and receive a temporary residence permit, and we therefore do not believe, as was said, that integration should be reserved for those who have come here to become permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160010	Well, the reason I'm asking is because we're confused in the Danish People's Party. Because on many points the rapporteur tries to give the impression that the Social Democratic Party has approached the Danish People's Party's strict immigration policy, and on other points it is so revealed that it has not yet. So maybe it's mostly a maneuver to talk to certain voters. If you are so preoccupied with integration that you cannot even use the new term for this benefit and preoccupied with the fact that the benefit has to be at a high level, will the Social Democrats have the strength to put a new policy through, where people actually have to be repatriated and that is not the way it has been in the past, where you have just given in and not dared to send people back to the home countries where the right ones should of course be when there is peace in the country? So how are we supposed to believe these statements about the social democracy's new tight immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160120	Well, I'm not trying to give the impression that social democracy is approaching the Danish People's Party. I am trying to relate substantially to the things that are being put forward and to tell you what the Social Democrats think. In this bill, we agree with most of it, and then there's something we disagree with. We also believe that the people who come here, whether as immigrants or as refugees, should be included in our integration policy. We also think that people should be self-supporting. We also think that it should be possible to send people home when protection is no longer needed if they have no connection with Danish society. But that is not the word I am most sensitive to, I would say. So, on political substance, I would very much like to reply, but the other thing I think is in the Besserwiss, or whatever it is called, on TV2 News, where you sit and interpret why people do one thing or the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160212	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160228	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing one of the most important legislative proposals that has been before Parliament for years, namely the draft law which implements the part of the Finance Act which deals with the area of foreigners. It has the potential to turn our asylum policy on its head and create a completely new return policy. The draft law addresses a wide range of problems and challenges in the field of foreigners. There is an important change in Danish asylum and immigration policy, so that in future residence for refugees is granted temporarily, with a view to their return to their countries of origin at some point. We are moving from integration of refugees to the focus of repatriation. This is told to refugees immediately upon arrival in Denmark, and this is reflected in their temporary residence permit and in the fact that in future the benefit is called the return grant, and in the fact that there is no longer a permanent residence, but only a temporary residence. The benefits are also reduced, and then we will place less emphasis on links with Denmark and more emphasis on whether the refugees concerned are related to the country of origin, in relation to the authorities' assessment of individual cases. These are just some of the changes in the paradigm shift, that is, our new repatriation policy. Then there will be more control of deported criminal aliens and foreigners on tolerated stays. They will be staying on the island of Lindholm in the future. Here there will be peace and quiet to reflect on life and on whether it was not better to return home, because there is nothing to prevent these people and unwanted foreigners from leaving Denmark. Fortunately, we are exhibiting a great many criminal foreigners, but there is a residual group, and we will then get better control of them. And foreigners who violate the rules they are subject to will be punished more severely than is the case today. And expelling foreigners who illegally return to Denmark in violation of an entry ban will be punished more severely with a multiple punishment. The redeployment scheme will be improved, a ceiling on family reunification will be introduced, and the right to vote in municipal and regional elections will require 4 years' stay in Denmark against the present 3 years. The Danish People's Party and the government are in the process of implementing that part of the Finance Act which is intended to prevent certain foreign money donations to mosque construction in Denmark. There are many good initiatives in the bill that Denmark needs and which are based on the current immigration policy. The bill will be an important litmus test on who wants Denmark well. In terms of limiting immigration and in terms of securing a new return policy, we believe that those who wish Denmark well will have to vote in favour of the bill. And, of course, the electorate must have clarity and know what is up and down ahead of the parliamentary elections that are at hand. When we in the Danish People's Party continue to insist that there is a need for tightening up, it is because, in our opinion, Denmark in the Danish People's Party is threatened both from the inside and from the outside. We insist that as Danes and therefore also as Danish politicians, we have a duty to look after our country and a duty to deliver to our descendants a decent society and a decent country that is reasonably connected. This is our finest and finest task. Every society is complex and has a unique history. Over time it has shaped a common culture and some associated common norms and morals, and without these common concepts we are left without a common frame of reference to navigate, and we are therefore alienated from each other. We must avoid this, and here a restrictive immigration policy and a new return policy are the best tools, together with a national conservative culture, church and school policy. Although over the years the Danish People's Party has had a dampening effect on the overall influx, and although we have had border controls and are also exhibiting a number of criminal aliens, immigration remains a disaster for our community. There are parallel societies in which women are oppressed, non-western immigrants are over-represented in various criminal statistics, and employment rates remain alarmingly low for this group. In addition to the huge social and cultural consequences, non-western immigration leaves an annual bill of 36 billion. kr. That is why we will also be working on new tightenings, and we will, of course, have to keep abreast of the implementation of the paradigm shift, so that along the way we can adjust where necessary. We have a good financial agreement and a good bill. Thanks to the government for a long but, given the outcome, good negotiating process. And in the Finance Act there are also many other good proposals which concern the area of foreigners, but which are not included in this bill: the continuation of border controls, the strengthening of customs controls, better checks on exits and, of course, an increased commitment to the neighbourhood effort, among other things. about Syria because we believe that refugees can be helped, but that we want to help them out instead of at home. All in all, we have a good bill and a good financial agreement. Thank you for the floor. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160748	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160758	I guess you should start by congratulating the Danish People's Party on the fact that it has succeeded in running the governing parties, including the Liberal Alliance, as far out as this bill expresses. This is impressive political craftsmanship. But I really want to ask about something else. We listened earlier to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, that he believes that this new agreement, which means that one should not take account of, for example. a refugee's participation in the labour market, Danish knowledge, etc., that is to say the link with the possibility of permanent residence, is not of great importance because instead there will be an announcement on the website of the Ministry of Integration, which will show the outcome of the judgments that fall within the European Court of Human Rights and other relevant courts. Does the rapporteur agree with Mr McMillan-Scott's report? Mattias Tesfaye in saying that this will not be of great importance because the legislation is already approximately in line with the practice of the courts? Or take sir. Mattias Tesfaye's error in that assessment, that is to say that this is actually a fundamental change in people's ability to stay if they, for example, are able to stay. has a very strong connection with society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124160919	It is the view of the Danish People's Party that this proposal will have an effect and will also have a significant effect. It is clear that it must of course be rolled out, it will take some time, and the authorities must also get used to creating a new practice on the basis of the bill, but we believe that this will have a noticeable effect. It will also mean something to some of the cases that you've seen around. The latest case has been the case that has been in Nyborg, with a Somali family who has had the residence permit withdrawn. This has been done on the basis of the existing rules and on the basis that in several financial laws we have set aside money for the Foreigners' Board to have more resources to review more cases. And if one can then say that it makes it even easier to include residence permits and extend it to all groups, then all else just means that there will also be more people who will have their residence permits withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161015	So, on the one hand, when we have Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who says that this is not going to make any difference to integration, and on the other hand the trade union, in other words the main organisation, who says that this is going to damage integration, because having a link with the labour market will no longer play the same role in getting a residence, is Mr. Martin Henriksen disagrees with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and agree with the consultation responses that come from e.g. The trade union movement, that this will actually mean that it will be more difficult for people to obtain the right of residence, even if they have made a huge effort to integrate and become part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161047	If you think that refugees who come here should be integrated into Danish society, then I think you have good reason to be disappointed with this bill. That must be the honest answer. Well, it's pulling away from integration, and it's pulling in the direction of repatriation. After all, that is what permeates the part of the Finance Act which deals with the paradigm shift, the new return policy, as you would call it. That is also what permeates large parts of the bill, that is to say, we are proposing that people should be here temporarily instead of people being here permanently. One can discuss how much effect it will have, but when, for example, we do. changes the purpose clause of the integration law and points out that successful integration is no longer what is needed to allow people to obtain a permanent residence permit, so we can say that both substantively but also signally we send a clear signal that what is important is not integration, but the important thing is that people return to their home countries at some point. In the view of the Danish People's Party, this is a completely new focus in the legislation on foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161141	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161146	Thank you. That's in line with Mr. Hawkins. Pelle Dragsted's question. I got a little bit smarter by Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen's answer, and I would like to hear how long Mr. Martin Henriksen tell you to leave? If this doesn't work because you can't send people home, what will the Danish People's Party do? That is the first question. What will the Danish People's Party do if it doesn't work because it can't send enough home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161229	I believe that this will work, but if we assume that it will not have an effect, it will be our view that we need to tighten up again, we must go in again and make it even easier for the authorities to include residence permits for foreigners who have asylum status or who have been brought together with a foreigner who has asylum status. We sincerely believe that we also have many times in the course of the financial law negotiations that have taken place asked about the lawyers' assessment of this, and it is also our own assessment that it will have an effect. But, of course, we will follow the legislation continuously, and no matter how much effect it will have, we will certainly also make adjustments along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161316	Thank you. So there will be more austerity and they will continue to pull away from integration, as we heard before, and towards other concepts. That's one. The second is: Do it as Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned that the trade union movement, specifically the FOA, says that this will have an impact on real, very many of their members working in the care of the elderly, in the social and health sectors, in hospitals, in our nursing homes and in home care, an impression on the rapporteur? Does Dansk Folkeparti have an idea of what will happen if Dansk Folkeparti's bill will work and there will be a shortage of thousands of employees in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161415	I think most people know that the Danish People's Party cares that there are proper conditions in our care for the elderly and that we have enough public employees to take care of our elderly, those who have contributed through a lifetime. We are very concerned about this by the Danish People's Party, and we also think that others should be equally concerned about it. But it is clear that with this bill, when it is adopted and implemented, there will be cases where the authorities will withdraw the residence permit for people working in the elderly sector or in the day-care sector. There will be examples of this. However, we in the Danish People's Party also believe that it is untenable that we have public institutions and trade unions which adapt themselves to attract labour through our asylum system. That is not what, in the view of the Danish People's Party, is the meaning of our asylum system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161457	The next question is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161504	Thank you. I understand on the Danish People's Party and Mr. Martin Henriksen, that the point of this is that refugees should be sent home when there is peace in their home country when there is peace where they come from. It would be nice if that were the case. In the perfect of all worlds, these conflicts that are around the world would stop, but it's not real. These conflicts extend over many years, and that means that there will be children who grow up in Denmark and who have no chance of going back. The Danish People's Party and Mr. Martin Henriksen not that we should make an effort to ensure that these children who stay in Denmark learn the language, get a good education and have the opportunity to contribute to Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161548	But it is the case today that we provide education and language training and ensure that children, for example, who were born in Denmark or have come to Denmark at an early age, can receive schooling. They can also move forward with the new legal state that is coming. But then there will be just a few cases, and that is the new one, where the residence permit, even though the children have received school education and the parents have been given a job, will nevertheless be involved, and they will then be informed of a time when they are going to leave, and then the authorities will start sending them home, if necessary by force. But they also have the opportunity to take advantage of some of the voluntary schemes that exist and to receive advice on how best to do both counselling with regard to children and what opportunities are available to receive support for children's schooling in their home country when they return there. That's what's new. There will be examples of families where we will see classmates and others who will protest that their classmates have their residence permit withdrawn, and you may understand that somewhere, but we will just have to do it anyway, because we have received so many people in Denmark and because refugees need to return to their home countries at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161706	So we are back to the point that we are not getting an answer to the question of who should be integrated and who should not. I understand, sir. Martin Henriksen, that now you want to get away from this integration thing, but does this mean that these children who want to grow up in Denmark and feel that they belong here, which one can easily argue for, I think they should not be integrated and that they should go to some school for themselves and not in the Danish primary school, where we can give them a real opportunity to actually contribute to Denmark? So, they just have to be completely separated from Danish society and then sent home at some point, or what's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161748	Well, with this bill, if it's passed, and we very much hope so, it will be the case that if you get a residence permit, you'll be able to go to an ordinary school. At the time when the residence permit is withdrawn, you are then referred to an exit centre where, of course, there will also be the possibility of receiving instruction, but depending on the municipality in which it is located, it may, for example, be a school run by the Red Cross. And then we think that teaching should be about sending them back to their home country. But there will be examples that children who have been in Denmark for a number of years and went to school etc., together with their parents will be told: At some point you were granted a residence permit in Denmark because, based on the rules that now applied, we considered that you were entitled to protection, and now we estimate that you can return to perhaps the whole country or at least parts of the country from which you originally came. Then that's what you have to do. I understand that for some families and children it will be a dull situation to stand in, and I also understand that there are those who immediately have that point of view when, for example, there is one. cases come out in the media and there will be more cases... that at person level it may not seem the most appropriate. But for society as a whole, we have to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161857	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161901	Thank you. I would really like to follow up Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's question, i.e. the last question asked by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, namely: who is going to look after our elderly people? I do not know whether the rapporteur knows how much shortage there will be of sosu assistants towards 2040. It is 40,000 employees we will be missing because of the growing age of our population. Who's gonna take care of our elders? Who's gonna clean up our hospitals? Who's gonna drive our cabs? Who's gonna stand down at the grocery store and sell us vegetables on the way home? Is the rapporteur aware of how much of Danish society some of the people the rapporteur now wants to send home are making promises especially in relation to the elderly who are out in our nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124161942	In other words, before we had a very large immigration to Denmark, also via the asylum system, Denmark functioned fairly as a society. If companies are both private companies and public companies get used to either recruiting people and hiring people via the asylum system, or you can just bring people here as foreign workers, then you get used to it, and then you do it. We want to move in a different direction where the young Danes, who are either now entering the education system or who are in the process of an education and who are going to be further trained, are being pushed in those directions and advised towards the directions in which, based on all the things they assess these things, we consider that there is a need for some labour in the future. We believe that this is a task that needs to be addressed at national level and not always say that every time there may be recruitment challenges in different sectors, yes, the only answer and the only solution is more immigration. We simply do not agree with that on the part of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162048	But I hope that the Danish People's Party takes the task seriously, because what do we do on the day when there are no young Danes who want to be, for example. Sosu assistants? What will the Danish People's Party do then? What is the answer of the Danish People's Party? Would the Danish People's Party rather that the elderly in the nursing homes do not get the warm hands that they do not get the same, you might say, care? There are, in fact, some people who can carry out that task, but who may be refugees and who may, for that reason, actually have a reason to be in Denmark and can obtain a residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162122	I believe that the sudden concern of the alternative for the care of the elderly may be primarily due to concern for asylum seekers coming to Denmark. So let's just take it for what it is. I just want to say that we have a society which, for a very, very long time, has been able to drive around and operate without a very, very large and violent immigration. It can be the same again. Now take the discussion that was last year on foreign labour, where we were almost told that if there were no more foreign labour • because there was a majority in this Parliament who had tightened the rules for foreign labour • it was virtually impossible for companies to obtain foreign labour, it was virtually impossible for companies to live up to orders etc. Now the figures have come in from last year, and we can actually see that there are no problems in recruiting foreign labour. So some of those discussions also illustrate problems, which I am quite convinced you will find other solutions than just opening up more immigration or saying that refugees can just stay here forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162222	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Mads Fuglede as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162236	Thank you for the floor. The number of asylum seekers has fallen sharply in recent years. This has meant that the influx is at its lowest level for many, many years. It's not something that's come on its own. This has required a consistent and rigorous policy in this area, which the government has succeeded in bringing together with the Danish People's Party, and we are very pleased with that cooperation. Today we are taking another step in that direction. We are doing this because, among other things, we want to make it clear that the stay of refugees in Denmark is temporary. In future, refugees will therefore be faced with the expectation that they will return home and help rebuild the country from which they left when there is no longer any need to be protected here. That is actually the whole point of being on the run, to the extent that there is any sense whatsoever in being on the run, in seeking shelter temporarily, and when the shelter is no longer one you need, you return to where you come from and help rebuild what has broken down. It's good for homeland. It is also good for the individual for whom it no longer makes sense to hold onto a false hope that an asylum permit is equal to an entry ticket to stay permanently in Denmark. We must have broken the pattern that a residence permit here in some particular way has ended up with one becoming a citizen of Denmark at some point. In addition, the proposal envisages the withdrawal of the residence permit when the basis for the residence permit is no longer available, unless it would be contrary to Denmark's international obligations, of course. It's good for Denmark. A lower number of asylums means that fewer Danish tax dollars should be used in the field of accommodation, support, etc. It's money we can use elsewhere for other purposes. We are also increasing the incentive for self-sufficiency so that it can pay better for refugees to work. It is good for Danish society that refugees contribute while they are here, and it is good for those families that children grow up with the obvious that they are in work and contribute to society and are not on passive support while you are here. Then we'll focus on repatriations. On the one hand, we make it clear that criminal foreigners and foreigners on tolerated residence have no future in Denmark and must be deployed as soon as possible. On the other hand, we are strengthening the incentive to return home by voluntary means, thereby ensuring a more orderly return for the individual. We also introduce a family reunification ceiling which can be used in exceptional cases where the asylum system is under particular pressure. We do so because we want to safeguard the Danish cohesion and because we in no way want to be in the same situation as we did in 2015 • the year that defines so much of what has happened here at home since. Finally, I would like to thank the various organisations which have contributed to the preparation of consultation responses. I've actually been reading them all, even though I was a little time-consuming at some point, and I realize that I've been in this process too more than in other times. But that does not change the fact that the part of the criticism that I noticed most is due to the fact that we are most politically divided. In the Left, we have a clear ambition that refugees and unwanted foreigners should return home as soon as it is possible that it should be less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark and that we should continue to keep the number of asylums at a low level. It doesn't happen by itself. That is why, of course, the Left supports this bill, and I welcome it from the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162620	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments and the first question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162625	Thank you. I think it is a violent accusation against the hearing parties to say that their hearing answer is about their political disagreement. In other words, if I were one of the many organizations which has given a hearing answer, I might be a little upset about it, because you are sitting with your professional skills and giving a hearing answer. So I hope the rapporteur will withdraw. However, one of the consultation responses that is certainly not about politics is that of the Institute for Human Rights, which actually criticises this element about the inclusion of residence permits, where the authorities are now about to go to the limit of Denmark's international obligations when deciding on the withdrawal of a residence permit. It criticises the Institute for Human Rights on the grounds that there is, in fact, an uncertain legal space for the authorities to take these decisions on the basis of precisely because there is no practice in the Court of Human Rights to point out exactly what is the right decision to make in Denmark in a specific case. What does the rapporteur say about the criticism of the Institute for Human Rights, which is certainly not a political criticism, but a very concrete legal criticism of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162731	I would like to say that I would like to withdraw some of it. There was a criticism from the KL about the deadline, which I think we are having some trouble keeping to, and on that point I think we are going to have to make a small change. So I guess I was a little too general. However, in relation to the rest of the hearings, I consider them to be largely political. When it comes to legal work, whether I think there is reason to question whether what comes from the Ministry is within the legal framework, I would say that I have no doubt that it is. I have that confidence in both the Ministry and the officials and the Minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162814	But that also raises the question of what we are using those consultation responses for. So, it may now be a bit of a democratic debate, but we have a national Institute for Human Rights, which is a legal entity, at least as I see it, and which helps us politicians to assess whether the legislation we put forward and discuss in the Folketing can stay within the limits of legal practice and legislation. And then I find it worrying if the government does not take it into account or take it for income at all, but skates over it and sees it as political disagreements. So what does the rapporteur himself use these answers to when he sits and reads them through?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162857	I read all the hearings with great interest and assess them, and my conclusion, having read the consultation answers to this bill, is that the main disagreements are some where we have political disagreements, and not where there is a criticism that leads to a change in the draft law. And that is why the only point on which I think an adjustment should be made to the draft law is where we have the criticism from KL about a time limit that will be difficult to comply with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162924	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124162927	I really think this last one's fucked up. It is claimed that there is a political disagreement and therefore we should not deal with the arguments put forward. This is not a way of discussing democracy. Of course there are political differences, but it does not relieve one from the criticism that comes. And this is where it's gonna be sad because the government seems to be arguing in this context. One has made a decision with the Danish People's Party, and then it is completely flinting no matter what others bring up with arguments. In other words, the democratic debate in this Chamber is in fact being short-lived. That is also why it seems that we do not care about these deadlines, I understand, because Mr. Mads Birded opens up a little so you can change it a little. However, all the indications are that it has been decided that this should be carried through as quickly as possible without any change whatsoever in it, without any assessment of the arguments that may be there. Then what are we gonna do with the Folketing? What are we going to do with the Folketing if it is simply to be a stamp factory for what the government and the Danish People's Party come up with. I think that in itself is a democratic argument, as Mr von der Vring has said. Mads Birds should deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163054	I think sir... Holger K. Nielsen must get used to the fact that when I read something and feel that it is something that is a political objection, which I disagree with politically, I am not going to change my position on it. But I am saying that when I saw in the hearing answer something that I think is a criticism that should be taken into account because it goes on the substantive side, I am listening to it. However, I see the answers to the hearings as being essentially political, and this is something that generally characterises a democratic discourse and debate that we cannot always agree politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163134	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163140	Oh, my God. That is quite correct, but it does not relieve one of having to deal with arguments that come from the other. That is what democracy is all about, and that is why it is really a democratic shortcoming when the Left Party says: we do not want to listen to any arguments, because we know that we disagree with you. What kind of discussion is that? This is a very large piece of legislation, according to the Danish People's Party the most important legislation for many years, I could understand it. Then I really think I really think it is a bad democratic principle that is being launched here by the Left Party, so you don't want to hear arguments from the other party with which you disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163228	I don't know where sir. Holger K. Nielsen has learned from the fact that I do not want to listen to arguments, but I assess the arguments and then assess how to take a position on them, and here I consider that the arguments that have been put forward are largely political. I guess I'm free to say it's part of a democratic conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163247	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163250	I would like to continue this more fundamental discussion, because when you look for example. It is clear from the answer given by the Institute for Human Rights that there is a question of settling some of the Convention issues. It's not politics. I think it's completely beside just neglecting. Politics is important, but here are some who point out some Conventional problems. It's just like that, so it's said. I want to ask you something else entirely. It is quite clear, if you are going to go into what you might call politics, that both sides of the social partners, the employers' association, where the Left usually listens to almost everything that comes from there, but also the employees' organizations say that this damages integration and leads to less self-sufficiency. The Danish People's Party has then been asked what they think of it, and there is Mr. Martin Henriksen is honest and says: yes, that is the purpose. We do not want to focus on integration; we want to harm integration. That is being asked, and Mr. Martin Henriksen answers yes. So my question is actually quite simple: does the ruling party in the Left agree with that? The purpose of this bill is simply to damage integration, or is it Mr. Martin Henriksen, who is fundamentally wrong about the content of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163408	No, we do not want to harm integration. We want to integrate when you are in Denmark, especially in the Danish labour market. You have to learn Danish values, and you have to learn how to live in Danish society. We are convinced that everything you learn here will be important values and tools to take back to the country from which you have fled when the opportunity arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163433	It's because Mr. Martin Henriksen was asked: Now you are banner leaders for a bill that damages even the same integration. Yes, the rapporteur says so. But then I have to understand from the rapporteur of the Left that Mr. Martin Henriksen is basically wrong about the content of this proposal. It does not harm integration, as Mr. Martin Henriksen and, by the way, like all the hearings that have been chosen to push aside, agree. But here we have a clear difference between the governing party and the parliamentary basis in view of this. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163509	If integration means that integration leads to a permanent stay in Denmark, that is not what we want with this bill. But integration can also be understood as being integrated into Denmark during the period you are here, and we believe that you should continue to be as you have always been. We want you to go to the Danish labour market and to acquire skills here that you can use when you get back home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163538	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163542	I'd like to pick up the thread from Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted. If you have the understanding of integration, as Mr. Mads Fuglede puts forward here, and which is quite in stark contrast to the one put forward by the Danish People's Party, why does the government propose a bill in which the words integration and integration programme all the places where they appear should be replaced by another term?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163614	It is because the aim of integration is something else now, namely that the temporary nature of your stay here, that is, while you are here, is something that must be clear to everyone so that it is the expectation that exists. That's why you change it. But that does not mean that we are opposed to integrating people into the labour market and learning good knowledge so that they become more of a human being, so that they can return home and be an asset to the country from which they have fled when there is peace there again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163645	Okay, just don't make it clear from the bill that that's what's expected, on the contrary. I have another important question. The rapporteur himself referred to consultation deadlines and consultation responses at the beginning. Can the rapporteur explain to me why this draft law has been tabled before the end of the consultation period, so that none of the consultation responses could be taken into account in relation to the submission of the draft law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163716	No, I can't, but I can listen to the questions that you have had time to read the hearings, and I myself have had that, although I have been a little busy with it, and I am glad that at least one has had enough time to get around the submitted material.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163731	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163735	Thank you. This is about something we have not talked about yet, namely the possibility of refugees being assigned a permanent residence. The bill says on page 35: "The municipalities will therefore no longer have a special obligation under the Integration Act to designate a permanent dwelling. As a starting point, therefore, it will be up to those concerned themselves to obtain accommodation, for example. by rent and by signing up on a waiting list. In the event of failure, decisions must be taken in accordance with the general principles and rules for the resolution of municipal housing social tasks. The refugees in question will therefore in future have the same access to help from the municipality as any other needy citizens in the country. I think it is sensible to have a policy to say in the integration law that it is not in itself a social event to come from abroad, but that you are assigned housing according to the general housing social policy, whereby, according to a guide which is described on page 34, if you, for example, are assigned. are divorced, are foreclosed, are elderly or disabled or, in the case of young pregnant women, can skip the home queue. But then it also says in the guide that you can skip the home queue if you are a fugitive. So, the law on integration is being amended, but the law on general housing still maintains that it is a social event in itself to be a refugee. I just want to encourage the Left to clean that up, so we're absolutely sure that whether you're blonde or dark-haired, when you're down at City Hall, you'll be weighed on the same weight bowl in terms of who should have assigned the general home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163904	Thank you for that invitation. I do not know what else to add to that finding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163912	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124163916	Then there is another thing about this debate on integration, which we have also had in a couple of rounds for some query debates. The bill also states that the content of the integration programme will remain unchanged and focus primarily on employment and education. So you change the name of the school booklet a little, but you don't change what's in it, except for the integration benefit. So with regard to this whole debate on whether or not we are really in favour of the integration of refugees, as we in the Social Democratic Party do according to the definition put forward by the rapporteur of the Left, namely that it is while they are here, all of that comes for one day when we find out whether basic integration training is being extended. After all, it expires this summer, and I know that the government is currently negotiating with the social partners. I just want to say that is the position of the Left that basic integration training should be extended? Because that is where we find out whether the Left really supports the integration of precisely these refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164013	Yes, the Left supports that. We are a little back to the same discussion as before, namely that you can understand integration in many ways, and integration can also be a way of being here, even if you are here temporarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164027	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164032	Thank you. Integration can be understood in many ways. Can the rapporteur of the Left not understand that it can be a little difficult to integrate if we are constantly told that we should be here on a temporary basis? That is my one question. I was actually going to ask the rapporteur something else. If the rapporteur is not arguing, why could the consultation process not last 7 or 10 days longer, so that the parliamentary rules could actually be observed, and so that the organisations we actually have to advise, not just the Folketing, but the government, not political opinions, but to advise the government on, among other things. compliance with conventions, could have time to work on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164124	I am certainly not arguing, and I really would have liked to have had a few more days to read it all through, so I didn't have to be so busy with it all the time, because I also had something else on the calendar. But I made it, and I sense everyone else here did. And the formal requirements were met, and that is probably the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164140	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164143	What I'm looking for is why it's so important for the government to get this through quickly. This is a huge bill, which means huge changes for a great many people who live in this country, and that is why I cannot understand why we want it so urgently, so I would certainly like to hear some honest answers to that. Why is it so important to rush this through? Is it because you have to satisfy the Danish People's Party, because you have to achieve something before an election, or what is it about, since we are rushing through such major changes and completely overhearing everything that the people who work with this area, both outside the walls, but also the people who are actually set up to advise the government on these issues, say?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164228	Nobody's being overheard here. Well, I understood the conversation earlier with Mr. Simpson. Holger K. Nielsen and also a little with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Pelle Dragsted, that's the picture you wanted to draw. I just did not agree with the political assessments contained in the hearings. I had plenty of time to read them, but I had to sit up late, and it's something that's difficult when you're a new father, because then you want to have your night's sleep, and I'd like to see that another time I can, so you don't always have to be so busy with things. I agree with the questioner that it might be nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164300	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next one on the platform is sir. Pelle Dragsted as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164311	Thank you very much. It has to be said that the government and its support party have been very, very busy. Friday, December 21, at 2:00 a.m. 15.15, shortly before Denmark went on Christmas vacation, an 278 pages of long draft legislation was issued to the organizations, institutions and experts on the consultation list who will contribute to this kind of complicated legislative proposal. They are told that the deadline for consultation is 18 January, not long when there is a Christmas holiday in the meantime, but already on 15 January the government will present the bill we are debating today, i.e. before the deadline for consultation has expired. It's a bit to keep the organisations that have been involved in this work a fool. And the changes that could have come out of taking the process seriously have been chosen not to take account of in the legislative proposal. It was not until Tuesday of this week, i.e. the day before yesterday, the Folketing received this consultation note, which is supposed to give a certain overview, from those who know about this, for example. KL and the municipalities that are responsible for the integration effort and who have to deal with these rules. On top of that, we can see from the timetable that it is expected that the committee will be submitting a report on 5 February. It can be said that it is nothing new in the time of these Left-wing governments that very drastic and, at the same time, very hasty changes are being made to the legislation in the field of foreigners, but this is nevertheless the most important example we have had of it. These are extremely far-reaching and fundamental changes that need to be pushed through the Folketing in a short time and without proper debate. It is bad governance, it is a lack of respect for the Folketing, for the people's regime, and it is of course going to hurt us, not us, we will manage to be awake to late, but the citizens, the employers, the public employees who have to live with or manage an uncertain legal basis that has come about in a hasty and superficial way. All this is about one thing, and that is that the government, and perhaps the government's support party in particular, can establish this so-called paradigm change so that the legislation can enter into force as early as 1 March and before a parliamentary election. So it is not for objective reasons, but because you are afraid of losing a future election. The content of this bill has been known for a long time, and the goal is obvious. We have heard this from the special Danish People's Party's Happy and Proud rapporteur that refugees should feel less welcome in Denmark. This is something you do very hard to do. The integration benefit, which must then not be called it anymore, must be further reduced. This will create real poverty. According to the hearings, we are talking about families who will have problems buying food and medicines for their children. The right to family reunification must be further restricted, with the result of several divided and unhappy families. People on toiled stays must be placed on an island down in Stege Bay, which is so happily spent 0.75 billion. kr. Over a four-year period. It is money that might have been better spent on, for example. to improve the conditions for our older fellow citizens. From now on, making an effort to settle in and become part of Denmark, getting a job, studying and learning Danish will no longer have any particular significance for the possibility of staying, and this will weaken integration. We will have a growing group of people in society who are a B team and who must live in uncertainty about the future, so instead of making them our neighbours and our colleagues and those we meet down at the football club, we will push them further away. The bill has also been met with massive criticism from humanitarian organisations such as the Danish Refugee Aid and the Red Cross, from organisations that know about legal certainty, among others. The Lawyers' Society, the Legal Policy Association and the Association of Foreigners' Attorneys, but also from organizations with which we in the Enhedslist often disagree. For example, the Danish Employers' Association writes: in their consultation answer that this will make it harder for companies and make them less likely to hire refugees because they never know whether it is a workforce with which to increase the skills. It would be nice if, in this case too, the government would listen to the friends over at the Danish Employers' Association. Unfortunately, my speaking time does not allow me to go into detail on this, as others have also said, very comprehensive legislative proposals. It is difficult to spot something that is good and therefore, of course, it will also have a high priority for Enhedslisten to have as much of the new legislation rolled back as soon as possible after a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164813	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164818	There were a few factual things from Enhedslisten's rapporteur who might not have been in the closet. But let it go. What I really would like to discuss is whether the Enhedslisten believes that, basically, at the moment that asylum seekers have been granted temporary residence permits, the starting point is that they should be here for the rest of their lives, or whether the Enhedslisten believes that the starting point is that protection should be there until there is no more need for protection. It is, of course, the kind of fundamental discussion that this bill is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124164902	We are of the clear position that we must follow the rules that apply in the conventions, and they are that as long as you need protection, you are entitled to be here. So the starting point is, of course, that it is possible to return home to your own country, because there have been lasting and stable conditions that enable you to live in security, then you have to return home. The problem is that we know that the conflicts are at least those that we have seen in recent decades and that most refugees have fled from the country do not last 4 years or 6 years or 8 years, they last 10 years or 15 years or 20 years. You can take a country like Iraq, where there has been almost constant conflict since a majority in here had the miserable idea of being involved in an American-led attack on the country, which has left a country in chaos. That is the reality, and it creates the problem that there are children who grow up here who have never seen their country of origin. And there we believe on the Enhedslisten side that when a number of years have passed and those people have become part of this society and the children have grown up as part of this society, they should have the right to stay here. So I think that's the answer to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165020	That's exactly what the bill is about. Everything that Enhedslisten's rapporteur says is exactly what this draft law says, namely to first assess whether there has been peace in the country of origin and whether we can actually return home without risking persecution and torture. And if the answer to that question is yes, then the second half, which is about assessing whether there has been any connection, goes on from a number of different moments. Now Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentions that 10, 15, 20 years may go by. Well it is part of the rules today, as it is in the Aliens Act, and as it will be in this note in the future, so that of course the length of the stay in Denmark has an impact on the possibility of including the residence permit. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentions the fact that children have grown up here, yes, exactly. There is even a reference to all sorts of concrete judgments that very precisely describe how long the children should have been here and whether it is the formal years or not. Everything that Enhedslisten's rapporteur says is what this bill says. This is the realization of Enhedslisten's policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165124	What the questioner is saying is simply nonsense. And if you're in doubt, you can just look at Mr. Simpson. Martin Henriksen's happy face. This is a serious deterioration in the ability of refugees to stay here if they've been here for a long time. We will have more who will end up in the country, but without any firm basis whatsoever for knowing what will happen in the future for them and their children. We will have a growing group of people who are here and are living here, and may be here all their lives, but without ever being allowed to join the A team. That is the content of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165205	The next question is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165213	Thank you. I'm gonna stick to that thing with lasting and stable conditions in your home country. When a country has been at war, it is often in ruins and there is not so much infrastructure and everything else that works. Then there are some people who, through economics or other, have been so lucky that they could transport themselves all the way up Europe to the Nordic countries and to Denmark, and up here they have got some skills, some skills that I think they should go home and use to help their countrymen build up a country that is in ruins and where the infrastructure and other things are not there. Why does the rapporteur, as he does, think in relation to people who have been so lucky that, while there was unrest in their country, they have lived safely and well in Denmark, compared to people who have lived in refugee camps next to their homeland and have now returned? Because these people get some skills, and they can come home and help their countrymen build the country. Because who else would do that? Does the rapporteur not think that those resources should be used with their compatriots?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165323	Thank you. It's always so beautiful when you have this kind of will on behalf of other people. Well, it is not Mrs Susanne Eilersen who has to take her children to a war-torn Somalia to build the country. It's some other people you think have this responsibility to do it, so take the risk it entails and that the daughter may be circumcised. That is the kind of dilemma these people are struggling with, the risk of returning if conditions are not that which one fears, and it is clear that one will do so if he has his children here. But I think it's great if people go back home. If we look at some of the Chilean refugees who came here in the 1970s, a lot has actually returned home. If we look at many of the Balkan refugees, a number of them have returned home, and that is wonderful if that is what you want and if you are comfortable with it. What I do not like is that families who have lived here for many years and have become part of our society... they have schoolmates, are going through the education system to help us solve the shortage of labour that is in the future that goes down the football club... must be forced out of their lives and sent to a country where conditions are not safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165434	If Denmark had been subjected to a war and lay in ruins, and I had to leave, then it would be my foremost task to come back and help build Denmark up again. Because that's the country I was born in, that's the country where I have my roots. That's the way others must feel. It's their country they come from, and it's a little funny all of a sudden to start taking circumcision in. I guess you're no longer exposed to circumcision because there's been a war or because there hasn't been a war. It's the kind of cultural thing you're fighting down there. So this is a completely different matter. But in Denmark these people have the opportunity to get a really good ballast, a really good education and some skills that they can take home and help their compatriots with at home. For who else is going to build, for example. Syria up again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165522	Now I think we should be careful to state in advance what exactly we are going to do in a particular situation. Well, I think that all Danes thought that they would be part of the resistance struggle if Denmark was occupied again, but there were also many who thought that they were, even if they had not been. How people react in those situations, I think we should wait until we face the situation ourselves. When I bring in circumcision, it is because we have a concrete example of the two Somali young women, whom the Danish People's Party would like to send back to Somalia, who explicitly say that they fear that it will mean that they will be circumcised.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165557	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next one on the platform is sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165607	Thank you for that, President. With this great bill, we are implementing a large number of initiatives taken in the field of foreigners in connection with the 2019 Finance Act. We think this is a very good proposal. It is stressed that being a refugee in Denmark is a matter of temporaryity. It is, of course, a return to what is meant by the whole refugee system: temporary protection. This has not been the case for many years in Denmark. Nine out of ten of those who have come to Denmark have stayed here permanently. So it has become immigration rather than temporary, as it should be. There are very good reasons to focus on temporary nature. Firstly, the refugee system is expensive for Denmark. It's $36 billion. kr. a year, that we have had a great many refugees over the years, and integration, despite high benefits and a great deal of money, has spent on various integration efforts. This is an unsustainable situation, and it is therefore good that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament to support most of the initiatives in this bill. As I said, there are many elements in the bill. There will be better opportunities to repatriate and benefits will be reduced. We think this is one of the important initiatives in this proposal. It is both something that will keep people from coming to Denmark, and it is something that will improve integration and make it more attractive to get into employment. I think it should be stressed that the benefits will continue to be high in an international context. With the level we have for the integration benefit, we are about what the level of cash benefits is in Sweden, which is probably a country that is very comparable with Denmark. A couple with a child will have 9,300 kroner. available after tax, housing costs, electricity, water and heat. I do not in any way claim that it is a dance on roses, but it is certainly a level we can be familiar with. A family reunification ceiling is also being introduced which could come into force in the event that we see situations like the one we saw in 2015. It is good that there is a standing readiness for action that such a situation should arise again. Then it is also emphasised that criminal foreigners have no future in Denmark. This is done with various tightenings. Lindholm has been much discussed. After all, there are some practical reasons why we should have a third exit centre, including a consideration for those who live at Kærshovedgård today and who are not criminals. Of course, they should not live with deep criminal foreigners. So that is also something that we think is a manifestation of common sense. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165940	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124165945	Thank you. Of course, it has been a long time since the word was said enough from among others. the then president of the New Alliance, who later became the Liberal Alliance, and who wanted to keep the Danish People's Party out of influence. We have almost ended up in the opposite situation, namely that we have completely subjected ourselves to the whip of the Danish People's Party, if that is the case. But I would really like to hear if the Liberal Alliance, when the Danish People's Party brought this to us in such a budget debate, which stretched out so long, just like just sitting and slamming it all in and saying, as the rapporteur also says today, that it is a very good proposal if you just get something in return with lower taxes on planes and yachts and things like that. Or, in fact, despite what the rapporteur says today, did we try to defend more liberals, could we call them perspectives? I mean, it's just to get a little look behind the curtains and see if you really stand shoulder to shoulder with the Danish People's Party on the immigration policy, or if an A4 sheet can still be smeared between the alien policies of the two parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170055	I really think this is a rather awkward way of debating. But obviously there is a need for clarification, and I am happy to give it. I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted's question rests on the flaw that somehow we should not be in favour of strict immigration policy. We do, and I have mentioned several reasons for this. There is a difference between the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. We are in favour of as few refugees as possible coming to Denmark. But we are very open to the fact that people from all over the world who come to work have a contract with a Danish employer before they come here should be welcome. There's a difference. There I have to understand that Pelle Dragsted and Enhedslisten share opinions with the Danish People's Party. There's so much like that. But a strict immigration policy and as few refugees to Denmark as possible, given that we have taken very, very many, is our policy. And we certainly think that this proposal is moving in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170159	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170200	Thank you for your answer. It is just a wild development that has happened from saying that enough was enough to where you stand today. And it's also an honest case, but it's just violent. I don't know if every electorate in the Liberal Alliance has followed that journey, but it's up to them. But let's do this with the workforce that you're so preoccupied with. I mean, that's one of the things that lies in some of the consultation answers, among other things. also from some of the normal donors and best friends of the Liberal Alliance at the top of the business world. They're very worried about this. But this time you don't listen to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170247	Again: Enough is probably something that was said by a politician who was a member of the New Alliance, and I am in another party. The Liberal Alliance is another party. I think 90 percent. of those who voted for LA in 2011, did not vote for the New Alliance in 2007. So it is another party that we have a different policy, it is not the same people who are involved. Our policy is clear: we want as few refugees to come to Denmark as possible, also because the argument that it is labour migration is wrong. It shows all statistics. The rate of employment of refugees is notoriously low; it has become a little bit better, but it is still notoriously low. And 36 billion. kr. It costs that we have had so many refugees and that they have been so badly integrated into the Danish labour market. I simply disagree with the employers, they are completely blind to it. That's one of them. It is also those and their companies who have to pay for it. For the 36 billion. kr. We could do a lot of good in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170407	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170410	Thank you. I fully agree that defending international conventions or defending Denmark as a major humanitarian power is probably not the core concern of the Liberal Alliance. But this bill still has to hurt a little in a liberal heart, because what about the refugee who comes to the country, who gets a job, gets a temporary residence permit and who through the work provides for himself and who may also have family and some children that he also provides for? After all, he is the foreign labour force that the rapporteur is talking about we would like to have in Denmark. Does he still have to be sent home?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170450	Nothing here hurts in a liberal heart. The starting point for a liberal society is that the rights that you have as a citizen of a liberal society apply to the citizens who are here, and those rights also apply to those who you say are allowed to be here, but there is no outsider who has some right to be able to come to Denmark. We have different arrangements for the immigration of labour, and we would like to develop those arrangements, because we think it would be common sense if we made it easier for people to come here to work. But of all those who come here through the refugee system, some find work, that is right, but it is the system that needs to be changed. Everyone comes here through the same system, and a very large proportion of those who come here do not get into employment, so we have to divide up the two systems. That's the way it is. If the person who is being talked about here is intended to come here to work, then you have to get here through another system and then you have to be welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170600	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170600-2	That is a completely absurd system of thinking. If you really wanted to follow the rapporteur's logic, you could just change the system; that is not so difficult. When the refugee who comes here and gets a temporary residence permit finds a job, becomes self-supporting, why on earth can one not have a system which then allows him to stay in Denmark? He contributes to our society, he pays taxes to our treasury! It is not a question of saying that the system is such, so it cannot be done, but it is then about us politicians making the system in a way that makes sense and so we get the labour that we need in Denmark. And it doesn't matter whether it comes through a refugee who has come to Denmark or whether it comes through a non-refugee, I was just saying who chooses to take a job in Denmark. What is the difference between what it gives us as a society?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170648	There I think Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier should try to imagine that she did what Mrs Magdalene Maier is proposing. Then you would say to refugees around the world: Go to Denmark, you get a job, there is a permanent stay. After all, Denmark will become a magnet for people who, through the refugee system, will seek Denmark in order to get a job and thus obtain a permanent permit. This will create an incentive structure which will, of course, move in the completely opposite direction of what we want, namely that there will be fewer refugees in Denmark. I think that is quite obvious. But it is a good expression of the fact that the alternative sometimes has a little difficulty in thinking a step forward, and it is quite clear that you will create an incentive for people to try their luck in Denmark by being able to get a job and thus stay, and there will also be many who will try it but not be able to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170743	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170746	Thank you. Following on from previous questions on employers' consultation responses and the consultation answers in general, I would like to ask Mr. Joachim B. Olsen: When employers stress that the intention of this bill, which is very clear, because the word integration in all the places where it appears, is also what employers feel about replacing, will mean an increase in uncertainty among companies, which will be more reluctant to invest in hiring refugees, does not the rapporteur impress? Or is it merely a political disagreement, as the rapporteur of the Left said?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170838	I have to say that I have a political disagreement with the employers here. It is a bit strange, because we see that there are plenty of people coming to Denmark from the rest of Europe who work here for a short period and go back home, and that is what employers are used to handling. And then I have to say that employers must, of course, be able to defend their interests, but I am not put in the world to look after the interests of employers. There is a different concern here from what employers have just in mind: the consideration of public funds in general and, as I have mentioned, as we all know, it is an expensive business. There is a great deal of wishful thinking, I think, in the way the Radicals view this problem, because experience is quite clear. It has not succeeded in obtaining an employment rate among refugees, which is just about the same as that of the Danes. That is why it is a great cost. This is an consideration which we think is very, very important. That is why, we think, we must insist that labour is something that comes through the arrangements we have. I also believe that I share the view of employers in extending the arrangements and also with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124170958	Now it was the employers' point of view that I asked, but they are therefore political. They don't know what they're talking about, you have to believe. Finally, may I ask the rapporteur: I asked the former rapporteur of the Left and he thought that I had had four days to read the answers to the hearings. Is it not true that the answers to the hearings are not for me alone, but for the government, and the fact that the draft law has been tabled before the hearings were received means that the consultation answers could not be taken into account in the drafting of the draft law. That is, in fact, the meaning of the consultation answer. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171042	It's not good when you have a process like this here. I have also criticised this under the previous government, where the questioner was a minister. So it happened that we got through the same process. It actually happened a lot. I have statistics on it. It's not optimal. But as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen also knows, getting legislation through sometimes is a rather unsightly process, and on that point I agree with the criticism, but it has been necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171119	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171122	Thank you. I understand from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that exactly the proposal that we do not support is the most important thing for the Liberal Alliance, namely the reduction in the benefit of integration after three years of benefit in Denmark. The bill says that a single breadwinner will be reduced from DKK 12,000. 10,000 kroner. before tax a month, when you have been here for 3 years, and therefore have received child benefit for 3 years. It is such a rather strange structure on benefits, I think, that you start by getting $12,000, and then you get just as slowly more children's money, and then when three years have passed, you get $10,000, and then you get just as slowly more child money. KL writes in their response to the hearing: "KL will therefore call again for the government to take the initiative to set up a working/expert group with municipal participation, which will be entrusted with the task of proposing a new coherent benefit system (not comprehensive daily allowance) which, through clear incentives and marked simplification, ensures that everyone has incentives to work or train themselves. It is something like the same as the Social Democrats say. Isn't that what bourgeois Denmark has screwed up here becoming a Storm P. solution? Now it's the fourth time since the parliamentary elections that we've changed this. Instead of making it the subject of some foreign policy negotiations, should we not try to sit down quietly and get something done that is a little simpler and more transparent and that does not suddenly mean a reduction in benefits of DKK 2 000, because you have been here for 3 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171255	In other words, I agree that the fact that benefits are increasing is a rather fun incentive structure. But we can make it simpler and then just say that the benefits are permanently what they are in year 1. This would be a simplification that we will be able to support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171317	I guess we wouldn't think that was the best idea in the world. But another thing is: I'm looking for where the rationale is in these discussions. So, in the Social Democratic Party we are trying to say that on the one hand there are some different considerations to take, especially for families with children. And on the other hand, we have some other consideration that the benefits should not be of a size where it will be a purpose in itself to seek asylum in particular in Denmark. But when I'm following these negotiations, which I'm following from a distance, because I'm not participating in them myself, I'm a little puzzled about where the rationale is. Well, how do you end up at $1,145? After three years? What I'm really looking for is: is it just a desire to get as far down as possible? Or is it a desire to hit a reasonable level? And if so, what is the reasonable level?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171417	Well, a large part of the rationale is something that I actually think Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and I can agree, even if we choose to vote differently on this, namely that the level of benefits is important for how many people come to Denmark. And that is why, as far as we are concerned, it is also a desire to get it as far down as we can. And, of course, there is an assessment in it. As it is, sir. Mattias Tesfaye knows, there has been a matter before the Supreme Court, and one has the consideration of keeping oneself within the framework of the Constitution. And I believe that it has been an important part of why it has ended as it has ended. However, it is also a question of how to pay for people and how to see the idea of entering the labour market itself. I would also like to say very briefly, if I may, that this whole inequality debate is actually very fun in this context. For the Social Democrats talk about relative inequality, relative poverty, etc. But here we have some people, many of whom come from countries where you may have relatively high incomes. But we know that many people are looking to Denmark, to Europe, because of the level of benefits too. And then some prefer to come to Denmark where they get low benefits, but a higher standard of living. And that's just part of it, and we're gonna have to take stock of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171543	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171545	However, it is strong things to hear that the refugees who have come to Denmark from the war in Syria are relatively wealthy people who will go to Denmark because of the level of benefits. It is therefore strong tobacco to listen to in this Chamber today. However, what I would like to ask the rapporteur is in addition to his remarks about the criticism that has come from both the trade union movement and the Danish Employers' Association in terms of integration and having people on the labour market. And then we get a long explanation that you can't have people looking for work through obtaining refugee status here in Denmark, and it costs so many billions of dollars a year, and if we saved that money, we could put the tax down or whatever we heard from the rapporteur. But that's not what this is about. It is about some people being in Denmark at the moment. That's what this bill is about. It is not some who might come or not come. Some people are currently in Denmark who want to take away the opportunity to integrate and be in the labour market. And that is precisely what both the trade union movement and the Danish Employers' Association are contesting; they are facing some practical problems. You have a specific problem here. And that's what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen won't acknowledge actually is a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171718	I did not say that all refugees are coming because of the level of benefits. That, of course, is not true. Just as it is not true that the level of benefits does not mean anything to how many people are coming. Of course, the level of benefits also means how many people choose to go all the way up through Europe and get to Denmark through a whole lot of safe countries. Of course, the level of benefits and what can be obtained in the country in question play a role. Of course. Of course it also matters how things are in general in a country, i.e. whether someone comes here, how many people want to apply for it. And that is why it is not just about those who are here, but also about how many will come in the future. And in relation to those who are here, we must note that the policy pursued by the left has been in place for many decades also where Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has been sitting in the Danish Parliament and has been systematically bankrupt. We have not had integration, and everyone thinks it is a problem. Now there is a government which, together with the Danish People's Party, comes up with some solutions, and nothing comes from the other side. It's just more of the same thing that we've been trying for many, many years and that hasn't worked. So sometimes, frankly, it's a little hard to take the criticism seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171832	I'm not going to deal with that kind of controversy here. But what is still the problem in the criticism that comes from the trade union movement and from the Danish Employers' Association is that we have some people in our country at the moment who are actually useful because they can be integrated. In fact, the integration process has had an effect also in relation to the jobs in question, the industries in question, etc. And that's what you want to degrade through this bill. I think that is a completely real objection from those concerned. And then Mr. Speaks. Joachim B. Olsen is completely out of the question and talks about everything else that has nothing to do with it. That's just what I want to arrest and that he's dealing with how this is a specific problem that arises from this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124171932	Well, I've answered that to previous questioners as well. I do not share the criticism of the trade union movement and employers, and I think that the two sides miss or fail to understand that we have other considerations, that is, the basic consideration that we want to see refugees being temporary. Because that is the point, that is to say a need for temporary protection, and then you have to go home when the need is no longer there. The alternative is that which we have had for many decades and which I think Mr. Holger K. Nielsen should seriously take responsibility for the fact that it has become an immigration system and that it has costs. Why are we not allowed to talk about costs in this area, but we must talk about them in all sorts of other areas? Here the costs are incredibly high, and we want to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172023	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172032	Thank you. Now I just got a clou when the Liberal Alliance rapporteur went down from the platform, because it is a good question, that is to say, about costs. I think that is a really relevant question to address in the debate, and I should not spend much time on that, other than saying: yes, it costs something. It does so when you want to meet your international obligations, and it must also cost something, and it is part of our costs as a Danish welfare society. I think it is a sad day today that we are standing here debating, it is not sad, we are debating it, but the consequences of it are sad, namely that this package, this bill, is most likely to be adopted, which we see as a step backwards for Danish immigration and refugee policy, for the humanist great power which Denmark has historically been, for the responsibility we take for the world's refugees, for the ethical perspective of Danish politics, which I think we have always stood so proudly on, but which we are so much stepping on today. I would like to touch on a few points in relation to this bill. In relation to the reduction in the integration benefit: It is the case that a report from the Institute for Human Rights from last year told us that already now the vast majority of children live in families on integration benefit below the poverty line. 20,000 kids today. With this reduction in the benefits of integration, yes, one must then think that the government is creating even more poor children in Denmark with open eyes. I just don't understand why we want to be a part of this. It is the opinion of the Institute for Human Rights that the proposal will lead to more people than before not being able to support themselves and theirs and that more will not receive the public help needed to live at a minimum subsistence level in accordance with section 75 of the Constitution. So here we have a potential breach of Article 75 of the Constitution. In relation to Lindholm: That means among other things. Danish Red Cross and Danish Refugee Aid that the degrading treatment of people who are to live on Lindholm may be contrary to our concluded conventions. The Institute for Human Rights writes in their hearing that it is important that the Folketing discuss potential breaches of Article 5, Article 8 and Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. So here there is a potential breach of our international commitments to the European Convention on Human Rights. In relation to the law on family reunification, Danish Refugee Aid also believes that a postponement of family reunification of 3-4 months with reference to a temporary ceiling with high probability, they write, would violate Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, among other things. the right to family life. The last thing I would like to mention is a concrete example which is also highly questionable. I have mentioned this a little in the past, namely that this draft law introduces an inclusion clause in Article 19a, in which the authorities are required to decide on the withdrawal or refusal of the extension of the residence permit, and the draft law states that, unlike today, the authorities must go to the limit of Denmark's international obligations when a decision is to be taken on the withdrawal of a residence permit. There is an uncertain legal space for this, the Institute for Human Rights writes, and I think we should be very careful about that. We need to be aware of what this means, because it means quite specifically that the authorities in Denmark do not. This is what the Institute of Human Rights writes, and they call on the government to come up with some guidelines and on the part of the legislators to tell us what it is actually for some criteria that must be emphasised when going to the limit of international obligations. So this puts our authorities in a situation that they cannot manage at all, and it makes me wonder whether what the government really wants with this bill, especially with regard to the conventions and our international obligations, is an attempt at a new practice, a new administrative practice, in which, instead of being sure that it will remain within the conventions, it is possible to make decisions that are actually so controversial that they are taken up internationally, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important matter for the European Parliament. Is this the new governance we have in the field of foreigners? Because I think this bill points to that, and I think that is very problematic for our democracy. I think this bill is a splendid example of symbolism policy, because you read the consultation answers, and we have already mentioned this, all of them from Danish Refugee Aid to Danish Businesses, you will see that they all say in chorus that the bill, with the skinny focus on temporaryism, will hinder integration. We all know that the Danish People's Party has no particular desire for one to be integrated into Denmark as a move, but we still had hoped that it would have the government after all. So this is pure Danish People's Party politics? You could be tempted to believe that. So, of course, we are voting against the bill by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172541	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172546	Thank you. Following on from what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier says, I think it is very likely that there will be some decisions on inclusion where Denmark will break the conventions, at least some interpretation of the conventions. It must be assumed that this will happen at some point. But it is not unnatural when you push it as much as you can within the framework that is now there and also trying to push the framework. So you have to assume that will happen in some cases. But what I would like to ask is whether it is the policy of the alternative that refugees should eventually return to their countries of origin. And if it is the policy of the alternative that refugees should return to their countries of origin at some point, what will the alternative actually do to ensure that this happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172638	But we have no doubt that if we are to motivate refugees to return to their homeland, we must not make it completely impossible for them to cope with life. Well, we all know that the more powerless you are in your everyday life, the less profits you actually have for example. imagine going home or preparing to go home. Of course, refugees must go home when they have the prospect of doing so. But if, in the meantime, for example, they do. have been so integrated into Denmark , and this is where we separate ourselves from the Dansk Folkeparti • that they e.g.. have had children who attend the Danish primary school, are self-supporting, have a job, so we have no problem with the refugees staying in Denmark and contributing to Danish society and becoming part of Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172720	Thank you. I do not think Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier will answer what the alternative will actually do to allow more refugees to return to their countries of origin. So if the rapporteur will respond to that in the second round, it will be great. Then I would like to ask you about it with benefits, because I understand that the alternative is against us turning the integration benefit into a self-supporting and repatriation allowance, and that the benefit will then be reduced for a number of foreigners. I guess that's the policy of the Alternative. Of course, I may have misunderstood that you would like to have higher benefits for foreigners in Denmark. And if that is the policy of the Alternative, how high should the benefits be, and how should we finance an increase in the benefits to foreigners in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172806	To reply to the last point, I would like to say that yes, we have believed from the outset that even the integration benefit, as it is today, is too low and we would like to see that benefit leveled up with cash aid. And we have funded this both in our financial law and in our government programme, so you can just orient yourself there to see where the money comes from. In reply to the second question, about what we are going to do for them to go home, I would say that we believe in the fact that you want to go back to your home country, if that is what makes sense. I am sure that if you have children who grow up in Denmark and go to the Danish primary school, you are probably somewhere else, i.e. if you have been in the country for 10 or 20 years. But if you're ready to go home, we think it's in the heart of the individual that that's what you want. So we don't need these control mechanisms or this whip that the Danish People's Party is in favour of, compared to getting them to go home.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172853	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172856	I'd like to start by making an apology. I have said to a newspaper last week, I believe that the alternative was that when asylum is granted in Denmark, you should also have a permanent residence permit. I was then given a message from an employee of the Alternative that it was untrue. It was an impression I had received after I had asked about it here in the Parliament Hall in 2018. But if that is untrue, it must mean that the alternative is in favour of having a temporary residence permit when you are granted asylum, in other words, just as you get it today. And then my question is: if it is temporary, is it the alternative's position that you should return to your country of origin if there is no longer a need for protection and if you have not achieved sufficient links with Denmark? So can we always discuss the levels, but is the alternative in favour of the principles?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124172946	Yeah, totally. Unless, in the meantime, a permanent residence permit has been obtained in Denmark under conditions which, if we were to decide, would be a little more relaxed than those which exist today, then you have to return home when you no longer have any protection needs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173001	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173004	Thank you for your answer. What lies in this bill is that it is the conventions that will decide whether or not they have been linked. It is clear that there cannot be a youngest clerk sitting around and sniffing out whether or not people have made a connection. It must be based on certain conditions, for example. how long you have been here, whether you are in employment, whether you speak Danish, whether you have children, whether the children have been raised in Denmark, whether they go to school and a lot of other things. The draft law then states that this balance must be made on the basis of the conventions and the judgments that have been passed, which concern the withdrawal of residence permits. So what I'm really asking is, isn't that great?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173059	Then one might be bold enough to ask back: why on earth do we have this bill if the rapporteur does not think that there is any difference compared to the way we are doing it today? I can tell you what's different from today and then this bill. It is that the conventions are being challenged to such an extent. We have not done so in Denmark before. We have said that we have some conventions to live up to. But to say that we must deliberately go to the border is new. And Mr. Martin Henriksen says it is so right, that we will see lots of cases before the Court of Human Rights, which will point out that Denmark has broken the conventions because we are so urging our authorities to go to the border. That's what's new in this bill. It is that you reduce the benefit, so it will be virtually impossible to live for the money they receive from the public sector in Denmark. It is that we want to set a ceiling on family reunification, despite the fact that we know that the three years that we have now are going to go to the limit of the Convention on Human Rights. So this is to such an extent rhetorical and substantive a super challenge of the great power that I think we have been to Denmark in the past, and this is certainly not something we can sign up to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173200	Thank you to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173209	Thank you. There's a lot to say about this bill, unfortunately only bad things. It is a final dispute with any common sense put forward by the government as the DF's glove puppet here, because we cannot, in the hearing answers, drive anyone with knowledge in the field to make sense; no one can show that it is going to solve any problems, but many, on the other hand, can demonstrate that it creates a large number of new problems. In addition, it is animal symbolic legislation which, among other things, includes: Sending 750 million. kr. Out of the window to a desert island in Stege Bay. Now the inhabitants of the Kalvehave and the surrounding area have to take over the problems by stowing together a group of unwanted people who have given up all hope. It is better to make life safe for them than for the residents of Bording. Why? It is to be able to say that it is on a desert island and to be able to talk about expensive ferry tickets so that they can wade over when the water is low. The only argument for Lindholm that seems to be left is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and Mr. Martin Henriksen can say that they have made life intolerable for 100 unwanted aliens and the citizens of Kalvehave become neighbours to a strange, uncertain and potentially dangerous experiment. And then it's not even a cheap solution. First comes the establishment costs of this 750 million. kr., and thereafter there are annual operating costs of 225 million. kr. for 125 seats, i.e. 1.8 million. kr. per seat a year. It is the same as it will cost to accommodate them on the Angleterre. That is a crazy priority. Finally and most seriously, however, the draft law provides for a reduction in the provision of services to refugees to a minimum subsistence level. Law experts in the Ministry of Justice have been called to join economists in linking the benefit to balance on the edge of section 75 of the Constitution. It cannot be reduced immediately. There are also more who have been talking about it, but only after 36 months, because other services need to be supplemented, so that the minimum level of subsistence is precisely affected, but the basic law is not violated with certainty. So there is speculation in the impoverishment and impoverishment of a certain group. It's shitty. Then the word integration is deleted in every place you can get to it, in the law, because no one should feel welcome, on the contrary. Employers are warning that this will mean that companies will have a much less desire to make efforts to get refugees into work. Why would they do that if there is a risk that they can't count on them? The trade union movement warns against this, and we are talking about rejecting people who contribute every day to making Denmark richer, people who have best met the demands of work, self-sufficiency, education and active citizenship. We can only urge the government to think again and correct what can only be an ill-considered error, says the chairman of the FOA. As far as education and work are concerned, the draft law says everywhere. And yet it ends up concluding that the integration responsibility, which includes the integration effort, the housing placement and the costs of the individual refugee, will continue to be the responsibility of the municipality to which the refugee has been searched. In other words, we speak symbols alone in here at Christiansborg; see how we gung! But all the work, the hassle and what it really is about, which has clearly been at the heart of the disagreement between the government and its support party, namely integration, because what else in the world they have to do in the municipalities, they have to deal with. So we've just delivered a whole series of new problems to the municipalities and no solutions, no tools, that's just too bad, but then we can scold them afterwards if they don't succeed in spite. So just in the bill itself, you contradict yourself. You know very well in the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance that work and education are not just part of integration, but the key to integration. But you let DF dictate, so now you tell people who have fled here that they absolutely shouldn't integrate, but they have to do it anyway, because otherwise there is. It doesn't make any sense. Then there is the miserable, miserable suggestion that the municipalities should no longer even be allowed to help in extraordinary circumstances when they think it is imperative. They have so far received 50%. reimbursement if there was an exceptional need for medical care or dental care, but the possibility of help is removed. I've met a lot of the people this is about. A few months ago, I met Sedra, who was studying medicine in the first year. She graduated from the Aabenraa Gymnasium in 2 years; she came to Denmark from Syria 4 years ago, of course, she speaks fluent Danish. Yeah, thanks for the coffee, how could we use more of her kind? What do we do instead? We punish her and tell her it doesn't matter if she's training here. On the contrary, she shouldn't count on anything. She shouldn't bet on a job as a doctor here in Denmark, even if we need her. Can she return to Syria? She can't. Her brothers can stay because they risk being summoned and killed by Assad's army. It is an impressive equality policy that we are pursuing here. You're creating new problems with this bill. You're not gonna solve anyone. We need a completely different paradigm shift in Denmark, one that brings us forward, with some common sense and recognition of people. Eventually, this law is a collective law: there is the Entry Centre Lindholm, which is reduced to minimum subsistence benefits, and there are cancellations of integration − there is everything possible in a large lighthouse. 100 amendments of 175 pages had been tabled before the hearings had been received. No one has been able to answer why this law should be rushed through. Why are we really giving the parties to the consultation that way? Why is there so little respect for the parliamentary work that we are doing? I think that's arrogant. It is perfect, and no one has been able to tell me what the point is of it. We are voting against in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173918	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Susanne Eilersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124173923	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we absolutely do not think that this bill is a miserable proposal. On the contrary, we think that this is a very good legislative proposal, which now corrects 30 years of failed integration policy, for which the Radicals have been the banner leader. The rapporteur spoke a lot about Entry Centre Lindholm, how expensive it was and how terrible it was for people in the Kalvehave who now had to live in fear and fear of these unwanted very criminal citizens we now want to live over there. When the rapporteur is so concerned about other Danish citizens, I would like to know whether the rapporteur could be involved in completely detaining these undesirable citizens in Denmark? We want to do that in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174011	I am so happy every time the Danish People's Party attributes to Radical Left 30 years of 90-mandate power, but unfortunately that is not correct. I wish we had had 90 seats for 30 years. We don't. There is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament for an integration policy, but today it is cancelled by the mandates represented by the Danish People's Party. I really think that has been very well done, because you do not have 90 mandates either. Yet you are now canceling integration, and there is not even a majority for that. That's very impressive. Of course, in the Entry Center Lindholm, we would not be able to incarcerate people who have served their sentence because they do not. This is contrary to all fundamental rights. What we could do, and it might be that we could agree with the Danish People's Party about it, was not to bother local residents in this way and instead spread the problem out, so it became manageable, and solve the different places at some of the centres we already have. Could that be an idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174118	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174120	After all, we would be bothering many more citizens if we were to spread very serious criminal people around the country. I think that the rapporteur should explain how the rapporteur thinks that it is possible to avoid making even more cities in Denmark insecure, by having violent and sexual offenders and all sorts of other things walking around, which is very difficult to handle and requires much more police observation, because then you have to have police scattered around the country instead of now, when you have them gathered here. In fact, I would like to hear how the rapporteur thinks that many more people are not insecure if you have very criminal people walking around the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174209	We have former criminals walking around in Denmark. There are plenty of people with Danish background who have been convicted, who have served their sentence and who are now living in Danish society. After all, we do not lock them up forever, because we have a system of penalties in which punishment is served. The reason for distributing people is that when you concentrate people who have been punished, you ask for problems − some of them have committed really terrible crimes like all the Danes who have committed terrible crimes and served their sentences. If you concentrate them all and put them in the same place without giving them any hope, you ask for problems. If we divide it up, we will have fewer problems and the opportunity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174259	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174302	I am reacting to the fact that the rapporteur of the Radicals congratulates the Danish People's Party on canceling integration. In other words, there is a very broad majority here in the Danish Parliament, which, for 20 years now, even with a separate law in its backs, has led an integration policy, and this bill will not be touched on. There is still an employment policy carried out by the municipalities' job centres; there is still an education system that welcomes people. It is even explicit in the draft law that what is the purpose of the integration law continues and that the purpose is employment and education, language teaching. So I do not think there is any reason to continue to insist that integration is now cancelled and congratulate the Danish People's Party. We had that discussion in 2018, where there was a discussion about whether we should help refugees in employment, because it in itself was associated. Then we said on the part of the Social Democratic Party: of course people must support themselves when they come to Denmark. It is not contrary to the possibility of sending people home when there is peace. That is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174418	I agree with the questioner that much of it is such a symbolic talk when the Danish People's Party today takes credit for canceling integration. It is true that the municipalities still have the task; they must continue to make things work; the employers, we hope, will continue to make efforts to get even more igu progress in progress; there are a large number of other initiatives to get more people into employment. We have just made it a little harder, because symbolism policy also has some real policy implications. The questioner also comes to the West. Last week I was at Høje-Taastrup Gymnasium, and it has gone in clean, also with young people who have a residence permit in Denmark, and a large part of them have citizenship. They say that there is a repatriation now, so why should we even go to high school and take an education and work here if at some point you throw us out? It has a consequence when the word 'integration' is crossed out of all legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174528	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174530	I have had the same experiences as the Radical Left rapporteur, i.e. that people who are not in any way covered by this are beginning to think that they are not going to live in Denmark any more... both people who have Danish passports, as it is called, and people who have permanent residence permits, and people who have immigrated to it, or are grandchildren of people who have immigrated to it. That is why I think we are all responsible for explaining what this is all about. And there I think there are several parliamentary politicians who have helped to mute the picture and perhaps create more uncertainty than what is good. I would also like to say that it is not the Danish People's Party that takes the give that is what I opposed. Then the Radical Left rapporteur says at the beginning of his rapporteur's speech that there is nothing good to say about this bill. I agree that we disagree on a great deal of things in this area, but I think we agree on the 12 sides of the bill, which deals with the repatriation scheme, which allows Danes, if they have dual citizenship, to renounce their Danish citizenship and move back with financial support, if that is what they want. I just need to confirm that we are in agreement on that after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174639	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174640	To the end: I think it is very good that you can get support and that it is a broader repatriation programme that is correct. I do not really need the thing about disclaiming your citizenship, but I think that the tiny part of what is about a broader approach to repatriation is fine, and if we can get it separated, it is also good. Then it is quite right that we have an enormous responsibility to create uncertainty in this area. I don't think we've lost yet. I will fight to the end for integration, hopefully with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and his party, and then I would urge you not to agree to a bill that cancels it in this way, by sending the signal, symbolically or not, that there is no integration here. Because that's what you do when you delete the word everywhere in this bill, and we don't have to stand for that at all. It's leaked out there. You didn't need any of us to date. I'm doing everything I can when I'm out there to encourage these people to continue their good work of educating and working. But they meet another reality, and it has Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also has a responsibility to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174803	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174805	Thank you for that, President. We need a third exit centre. I think there is a broad consensus on that. There are, of course, a number of considerations to be taken into account here, including the consideration of those who live in an exit centre today and who are not criminals, and that is where we have chosen to go, and I understand that is an consideration which the Radical Left does not want to take into account those who are not criminals, that they should not live with convicted, very, very hard criminals. We are talking about murderers, people convicted of death violence, foreign fighters, rapists and others. We think that there is one consideration to be given to the others. The Radical Left will not take that into account, and that is quite fair because the Radical Left says that they must be spread out on the other centres. I really think it is strange that we do not want to be involved in ensuring that, for example, we do not. a deported gay man from Uganda is not to live with an Islamist. That is the concern we are taking here. Why will the Radical Left not take that into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174918	Well, I haven't said that at all that I don't want to do the opposite. The Radical Left's proposal also separates these people, but it's this thing about setting up an island centre in Stege Bay and spending a small billion dollars on it when we have locations. Many of those who are not criminals could have the opportunity to wear an ankle bracelets, be outside, and then we could use the places we have for those who have been convicted of crime but have served their sentences.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174953	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124174955	Now I am confused, because a moment ago Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said that these criminal foreigners should be spread out at the other centres. That is exactly what was said. There we can go back and see that that is exactly what was said. You can't have both views at the same time. Are they supposed to be sequestered from the others in those places? We can't lock them up. So they'll be able to move with the same people. I think, basically, that much of the criticism made by the Radical Left against this proposal is thin. After all, the question and the discussion about how much it costs are also thin because, of course, we have to deduct the costs that would have to be spent on creating an exit centre elsewhere. I have just not heard the Radical Left say where the exit centre would then lie, but only that these criminal aliens, expelled and on tolerated residence, would have to be spread out in all the municipalities of the country. Would you please go out and say it out loud, because I think it would be super popular in all the municipalities of the country that the Radical Left is proposing that they should simply be spread throughout all the municipalities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175113	It is not a serious debate to caricature in this way. No one has proposed to spread people across all municipalities throughout the country, but these are the facilities that exist. What seems completely meaningless is that there was not one word about this island in Stege Bay in the last few days of the budget negotiations, which shows how much this is about having a symbol instead of bringing the centres together, talking about where it is, the best solutions exist, and how we distribute this group, so that they are not all concentrated in one place, because that comes out of the biggest problems. I would very much like to send Mr. Joachim B. Olsen our proposal on how to place them, because it has been out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175205	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we have one more rapporteur in line, and that is Mr. President. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175224	This is what you call big politics. Sir. Martin Henriksen said that this is the most important legislative proposal for years that has been under discussion here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and it is related to the not new word, but fine words called paradigm change, which, for some reason, has come into the political discussion. This means a completely fundamental change in something, that you turn it all around and start afresh and change all the conditions for it. Yes, sir. That is why so much attention has been paid to it by the Danish People's Party in particular, but also by the government, and we will soon have a parliamentary election. I can quite understand Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye, that is, that he likes to arrest, that it is very much spoken on the part of some people, that there may be an interest in making it more than it is from the Danish People's Party and the government in particular, and that if you go down in the individual details, it may well be that it is not quite as violent as it is done to. But the truth is, the rhetoric in this has a crucial role to play. It is to an enormous extent rhetoric that has defined this bill, and that is why, as others have also said, much of it is symbolic policy. On that deserted island of Lindholm, which, if I may say so, was the big piece of equipment in this, I would say that when you started digging into it, it was found that the problem was moved from one place in the country to another place in the country. It costs 0.75 billion. kr. to do this exercise, it doesn't solve anything at all, and it's all about the fact that the Danish People's Party wanted to relaunch Karen Jespersen's old idea of this desert island, which many people were very offended about at the time, and then they can get a lot of media coverage on the relaunch of it, because there must be parliamentary elections, not true, while New Citizens stand outside and knock on, and then the Danish People's Party should have something. That's what this is all about, and we know it is. After all, there is no substance to all this, and that is what we are discussing today. Much of the paradigm shift, it is said, is about temporaryness, which has now come in. I do not agree with that. There are some changes to this, yes, but there is not so much disagreement about the temporary nature of the matter. I know everyone here in the Folketing agrees that when we take care of a refugee who comes and asks for shelter in Denmark, it is a matter of getting it temporarily until he can return to the country from which he comes. I do not think there is any disagreement about that. Where the new comes in is another place, and that is that in the intervening period people are bothered as much as possible. That's where the paradigm shift comes in. Instead of having as a starting point that, as they are in this country, they have to return at some point, they are said to feel as bad as possible; they must be bothered as much as possible; they must not be integrated at all; they must not be educated; they must have a lower level of performance without, in fact, necessarily having the consequence that they go home, because many of them cannot. They can't go home. In other words, it is done that the conditions of a group of people who are in this country are reduced, that they will not be left on the labour market, and that is what the Danish Employers' Association and the trade union movement oppose, namely that they should be bothered as much as possible. That's what it is, if I may say so, the paradigm shift in this. We simply disagree with that approach. I certainly think it is worth discussing the whole issue of temporary nature, because we agree that refugees should return as a starting point to their country when they can return. That is what the Refugee Convention is also about, as the refugee policy is also about internationally, that it is therefore the protection that we must be able to provide. But it's not like we have to bother people while they're here and we shouldn't be able to get anything positive out of it while they're here. They must be able to train, so that they are better equipped to return to their own country. That's what this is about. A lot of fine words have been said about them having to go back and rebuild their country. Sure, but don't you do better than that if you've got an education if you've got some skills? Of course you do. Therefore, there is every reason to maintain an integration agenda, an integration objective in what we are talking about here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175801	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Then we have reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124175818	Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill and also for the good and long debate that we have had. The draft law we are discussing today contains a number of amendments to the Aliens Act, the Integration Act, the Return Act and various other laws, and I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing. As I said, of course, I am always available to answer any questions that may be raised in this context, including in consultation and other matters, and I know that a technical examination of some of the things that are here in the draft law has already been requested, and I understand that as a matter of fact. That's why I'm not going to go through the bill here from the platform either. There has already been a lot of debate, one can say, about a number of the elements, so I see no reason why I repeat the main elements of the draft law. But this bill once again underlines that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has taken responsibility and has also since the elections carried out a large number of restrictions in the field of foreigners. We have made it less attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. We have tightened controls on unwanted foreigners. We have strengthened our efforts in the field of broadcasting. We have ensured that working pays off. We have strengthened the employment-oriented efforts for newly arrived refugees and their families, so that you quickly become self-supporting, and so that you can take an active part in Danish society as long as you have to stay here. With this bill, we stress once again that we take that responsibility very seriously. With the draft law, we are proposing a large number of significant initiatives, such as: must ensure that the temporary protection in Denmark is not almost just per year. automatics become a permanent existence when the protection needs cease. It is absolutely essential that we pursue a responsible immigration policy that ensures that immigration is under control, and that is what the government's policy on aliens is about, and that is also what this bill must help to secure. In the Finance Act, we agreed to implement a series of initiatives to ensure that current efforts in the field of immigration and integration continue and that the number of asylum seekers is maintained at a very low level. With the bill here, we are now implementing the immigration and integration policy initiatives included in the 2019 Finance Act, i.e. the part that requires legislative changes. I have been able to hear here today that there has been a great desire on the part of the Social Democratic Party in particular to divide the bill into bits, so that, so to speak, you can take what you liked and leave the other and then leave the responsibility for the Danish People's Party and the government. It's not gonna be like that. We see this bill as a whole, and we do, of course, because the part that is about services is so central. You can't just start picking in this bill. It is a whole, and that is why it will be the same when we are about to vote on it. Then it's gonna be like a piece of legislation. As I said, I look forward to further consideration in this Chamber and, of course, I am happy to answer any questions that may arise, including questions of consultation, written questions and other matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180234	Thank you very much, Minister. There are some brief comments. Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180239	Now I was accused of wanting the same thing as the Danish People's Party, but I find it hard to see how services and the Outward Travel Centre Lindholm can be seen as a whole. In the Radical Left, we have no problem dividing up the bill. What I would like to ask the Minister is: what was the reason why this bill had to be tabled before the hearings had come in? What was the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180313	Well, it shouldn't be a secret that we want to get this bill through as soon as possible in the Folketing. It is quite true that the draft law was tabled as it did, but it is quite right, as several rapporteurs have said, that there is the possibility of tabling amendments if there is anything in the consultation answers. And then I have to say that it is true, as several rapporteurs have also said, that today's debate does not indicate that it is the case that we have not been able to read through the hearings, because it has to be said that many of them have been referred to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180356	Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180358	Yeah, but this isn't about my ability to read fast. It is about the fact that the consultation answers are part of a democratic process which must be included in the legislative process. After all, the minister and her official duties should have had time to read the hearings. That's how the law process usually goes. The Minister has not given a single reason why this bill should go faster, other than that it wants the government. I guess there aren't a lot of legislative proposals that you don't want to be implemented quickly. Then you could break the consultation deadlines every time you would like things to work. I guess there's nothing here that changes that process. There is no one standing anywhere who can justify the extraordinary urgency of this matter. Is it just because the minister doesn't care?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180450	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180451	No, we think it is urgent because we want to get these changes through and make them work as soon as possible. I guess it's an excellent aim to have with it. However, as several people have also said, it is always desirable to be able to discuss matters. That is what we have done, and once again we have to say that the hearings have filled a great deal today, not only in principle, but also in detail. So my impression is that it has not been completely impossible for Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to read the hearings either. And then again: should there be a need for this, then there will of course be some amendments before we finally adopt the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180539	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180542	I would like to continue in the same vein, because my question is actually also about the democratic process in relation to the consultation responses. We can sit on a late evening as rapporteurs after having received the consultation note and the consultation answers and read them through, although it is problematic because we have barely enough time, but that is not so much the democratic problem here. It is, of course, that the Minister has not had the opportunity to take into account the hearings in the drafting of the bill. And there you can say, and you can also read this from it, that there is certainly nothing in the hearings that the Minister has taken on board when you look through the bill. So I would really like to ask the Minister whether the Minister shares his party's view that these hearings, particularly those which are critical of the draft law, are primarily political in nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180629	After all, there is no doubt that there are a number of the consultation answers which are of a political nature and, frankly, that is the way I think it will always be, and I think it has always been. I must also say, if I can just give an example, because I could be asked quickly that it is rare for the trade union movement, for example. Very much praises the government's policy. Doesn't it have a political aim every once in a while? Yeah, I guess so. So I can easily follow Mr. Mads Birde's mindset and approach to this. At least a number of the consultations are political.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180714	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180716	One might then ask whether Dansk Erhvervs consultation answer is also political, because it criticizes the government as well, but I must leave that to the Minister to assess. What can we expect in the context of future legal proceedings if the government remains in office or at all? So is it to be expected that such a practice will be repeated in which we see legislative proposals being submitted before the deadline for consultation has expired? Or does the Minister also consider this to be a mistake and would the Minister perhaps regret the process that has taken place in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180750	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180751	No, I do not wish to complain, but as I said, it is always desirable that we have plenty of time to discuss things, and I think we have that too, among other things. Today and again: I think that the debate here today certainly shows that there has also been plenty of time to discuss this and that at least the hearings have also been read through. Now it is not the first time in the history of Denmark that this question has been discussed about consultation answers and presentations, and it is probably not the last time either. I will assume that bourgeois governments will also do this again, as well as social democratically-led governments have done it, and perhaps that is why it sounds a tiny bit hollow when Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen in this way goes very aggressively at work. I think we could now also point out examples from the time that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen was in government that exactly the same has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180849	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124180852	Thank you. I would say that I may not be so surprised by the haste of getting it through, in relation to the discharge of an election and such. I can understand why it's so important to get this through and you ignore all the rules and stuff. What may surprise me a little in relation to the haste is that the government has had 19 years to implement it. So, the government got a majority with the Danish People's Party in 2001. I think the Left went to the polls at the time of change, and apart from four years, there has been a majority for 19 years. So there has been every reason to implement it. But you haven't done that. And then all of a sudden it has to go very quickly to a choice where you stand to lose, and that is the real explanation. But now the Minister talked about the fact that we could easily go into details, and then I will choose to take out a detail. There has been a reference to the violation of four laws, which will in future lead to accommodation on Lindholm, and I would like to know: how many of the 409 people who have so far been accommodated at the Excursion Centre Kærshovedgård have been punished for one of these four crimes and, if so, are likely to have to be transferred to Lindholm if the rule applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181012	Well, I do not have the figures here in relation to the current population, if I may say so, namely the residents who are at the Kærshovedgård exit centre, because there are many things that can change before. There are, for example: A lot of those who could go home before. And then I have to say that it would be other people that are involved. But what I can tell you is that, as a rule, there are 100 places on Lindholm and then 25 buffer places, and that says a little about the extent to which we expect to need these places.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181047	Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181049	In any case, we can see that it has been so fast that the Minister did not have time to study all the figures. But it might be interesting to know, because a lot has been said about criminals, criminals and crimes, and now we really have to do something, and something really has to happen. At least recently there has been a total of 409 at Ikast. Then I think that when you make an entire island, there must be a great many of them who, according to the criteria that are being put forward, should have been transferred to this island. Is it 200, is it 300, or is it 100 or 50, or is it 30, or is it 10, or is it less than 10? It's a little interesting to know in this discussion. So Minister: is it above or below 10, which according to the criteria that have been set up should be transferred to Lindholm because of these crimes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181207	Well, as I said, I don't have the exact numbers here, but if it had been today, it would be over 10, i.e., it's somewhere, I guess, between 50 and 60 at the moment. But things can change, so you can't take a snapshot. All I can say is that we expect us to need about 100 places, and then there are 25 buffer places. But what would be desirable would be for people to go home, that would be the best thing to do, but everyone just doesn't, and that's why we have to have exit centres like these. It's just to put pressure on a number of these people. Then there are some of those who are on tolerating, and there is certainly reason to have extraordinary control over them, and I think we will get that too here at Lindholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181253	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181256	Thank you. I would like to address the part of the bill on the ceiling on family reunification. A few months ago, the Minister said it was a hoax. "In fact, it is just a new processing system which means that you are going to postpone some cases," said the minister to Danmarks Radio. But you're going to deal with all family reunification cases anyway, so you can't use that for anything... I'd much rather conduct politics with funds that actually work. ▪ Now we have read the bill here thoroughly and can see that all cases have to be dealt with and thus postponed for 3-4 months. That is the content of the ceiling on family reunification. So what we have here, is the scam ceiling that the Minister talked about in December, or is there a difference between what the Minister said and what the bill says before us?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181351	There is precisely a difference between the German ceiling and the Danish ceiling. In other words, it can be said that the Danish ceiling will be activated in a situation where it is necessary to activate a ceiling for family reunifications. And when we have the opportunity to introduce this ceiling, it's just to make sure that we don't get into a situation where we're under pressure from family reunification. So I guess I kind of hope that mr. Mattias Tesfaye has somehow read out the differences between the German and Danish ceilings. We have, in fact, made a great deal of effort to devise a ceiling that can be used for something in the situation where we really need it. And that's what's in this. So it will be able to be activated in the situation where it becomes necessary to ensure, one might say, the cohesion force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181450	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181453	Thank you. But the reason I am asking is that what the Minister said before Christmas was that it was not a real ceiling; it was a scam ceiling because it merely dropped some family reunification cases, but that all matters had to be dealt with. And now we are reading the bill which postpones some family reunification cases; we are ensuring that all cases are dealt with and that they are dealt with within the maximum. 3-4 months. I can only see some parallel between what the Minister called a scam ceiling and what we are dealing with today. And if there isn't a parallel, if there's a difference, then I just want to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181529	Well, actually, I think that's exactly what I was trying to tell Mr. Simpson. Mattias Tesfaye or reply to just now, namely that there is a difference between the German and the Danish ceiling, because the Danish ceiling is just activated in a situation where we, you might say, are under pressure. And so one of the best ways to set it up may be to try to compare it a little with an emergency brake. Well, it's kind of the same thoughts that are behind it, though there's also a difference. But there is a very large difference between the German ceiling and the Danish ceiling, so perhaps I do not quite understand why Mr. Mattias Tesfaye just questions that part. Because I think we have actually outlined it fairly clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181615	Thank you, Minister. As the Minister moves down from the platform, we will begin the second round with Mr. Martin Henriksen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181631	Thank you. I would like to take the floor again because we in the Danish People's Party would like to call on the Social Democracy and other parties to support the bill, because it is important for Denmark that there is broad support behind the new return policy. In our view, it is crucial in the Danish People's Party that we change the focus of the general debate on foreigners, so we move from integration of refugees to repatriation of refugees. That is what is being proposed here, namely that we change the focus. After all, the policy pursued by the Danish People's Party and the government since 2015 in the area of asylum has limited its influx; the latest figures in this area also show this. We need to work on that, so that the number goes even further, and at the same time we need to get the repatriations going. I am not saying, and we are not saying in the Danish People's Party, that everything is now going to be okay with this bill, but it will be better if it is that you want a restrictive immigration policy and a strict immigration policy. With this bill, it will be easier to send refugees back whenever possible so that they can help rebuild their home countries, and that is not an unreasonable view, on the contrary. So we will follow with great interest the implementation of the new repatriation rules. I also believe that there is a need for us to go through the other rules in this area so that we are better able to ensure that foreigners who are told to return are transferred, for example, to one of our exit centres, where we can prepare them for their return journey with appropriate training, upgrading and so on. It's also to say that this is a really good bill. We look forward to it being adopted as soon as possible, but then, of course, we will have to keep track of developments, and there is also, I think, a need to go through legislation in other areas, so that they can also be upgraded. But my reason for going up here in the second round is first and foremost to call on the Social Democratic Party to support the new return policy and support the bill. I think it would be the right thing to do for the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181838	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181841	I can guarantee the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that Enhedslisten is always ready to discuss solutions to real problems. But it takes them to be real. With us, the money is not so loose in our pockets that we will spend up to 1 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a problem which does not exist and now the Minister would not reply to it. Well, then, sir. Martin Henriksen gets the opportunity. How many of those 407 or 409 who have been at the exit center at Ikast would, according to what is being proposed here, have been transferred to Lindholm because of some form of crime? How big is the figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124181930	I think it's a rather funny approach, sir. Søren Søndergaard has to do this where mr. Søren Søndergaard says: We will not spend so much money establishing an exit centre on Lindholm. That's where Mr. Søren Søndergaard, I must understand that it is a waste of taxpayers' money that we are trying to get a little more control over these criminal aliens. But I have never heard the Enhedslisten or Mr. Søren Søndergaard complains about the two-digit billion amount that we spend annually on the economic burden of non-western immigration on public finances in Denmark. I can't remember hearing that. But all of a sudden you have a lot of care because some money is being spent in order to get a little better control of criminal foreigners. I must be quite honest and say that I think it is a difficult question to answer how many people have to be transferred exactly. Because that will depend on how many there are at the time when the centre is finally established. That's the answer. After all, we are sending criminal foreigners out of Denmark on an ongoing basis. So it may be that some of them, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions here, at that time will be forcibly sent out by Denmark, and therefore of course we do not intend to transfer them to the center in question. For good reasons, therefore, it is difficult to give a precise answer to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182034	I can look at sir. Søren Søndergaard, that he wants to speak again, and so he gets it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182038	I'd like to say to Mr. Martin Henriksen: Well, it worries Enhedslisten very much about the money that goes to people who are in this country not getting to work. This requires an employment effort of a completely different nature. We fully agree with that, and that is the solution to that problem. So that worries us a lot. But I assume that when you move an exit centre or make one at Lindholm, you do so because you have detected a problem, not because you think that sometime in the future there will be a problem. But you do it because you've detected a problem. That is why it is probably when 409 people have been placed at Ikast and you keep talking about crime etc. etc., very reasonable to ask: how large has that been? How many of them would have been transferred to Lindholm? Then you can say: it is not interesting because we are talking about the future and we have no idea why we are doing it, and we are spending just 1 billion. kr. from some sensations. Of course you can do that. The Enhedslisten doesn't. We have taxpayers' money too dearly for that. So what's the problem that makes you make this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182158	The approach of the unitary list to the fact that non-western immigration costs 36 billion. kr. It has been said a year ago: we note that it is because many of them are not in employment; it is very difficult to get them into employment and, moreover, we continue to bring immigrants and refugees to Denmark from countries where we know from experience that it is difficult to get them into employment and to contribute financially to society. This means, of course, that people live very well, that people keep coming to Denmark, as we know, the public funds are being held up. It has, of course, been the Enhedslisten's approach, and I suppose it is still the approach to it, and that is basically what Mr. Søren Søndergaard confirms here. Then I just have to say that the figure for the number of foreigners who are on tolerated residences, the figure for how many criminals expelled foreigners there are in Denmark, the figure for how many rejected asylum seekers there are in Denmark, is constantly changing, all the time. That is why it makes no sense to say how many people are going to be transferred right now, all the time that it has not been established yet, and all the time that some of those who are there today, when we reach a time when we are setting up the centre, will certainly be sent out, and that there will certainly be more. That's the way it is. But the reason why we are establishing it is that we want to have more control over criminal foreigners, so that it becomes more difficult for them to run around and harass peaceful Danes. And we're going to get a little more control when we move them out on the island of Lindholm. In time we also hope in the Danish People's Party that they can be completely detained so that they stay on the island all the time until the time when you can send them home to their home countries. Because that's where they belong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182331	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182333	I have taken the floor to reply to some of the points made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party when he took the floor for the second time, namely whether you can count on the support of the Social Democrats for the changes contained in this bill and to that is the answer: yes. So everything about the paradigm shift that is about being able to include the residence permits, we would very, very much like to support it. Then we have also pointed out what is on pages 52 to 54, which are about reducing the benefits of integration. We will not support that, and that is why we have appealed for such a comprehensive legislative proposal, which deals with many different things, several laws, to be divided into a way in which we 46 Social Democrats also have the opportunity to express our opinion, so that we can vote green for this bill and red for what is being tampered out and dealt with separately. I understand from the Radical Left that they support a division, and the Social Democracy does too, and I have just spoken on buttons: if the 37 members of the Danish People's Party also support a division, we can get proper treatment, where we as a party can also be allowed to give our opinions on the elements of this bill. That's why I'm excited to wait down here in the back row. What does the Danish People's Party think about splitting up this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182449	We do not want to divide our repatriation policy into smaller bites. Why would we do that? A new return policy has been drawn up, a paradigm change has been made.This is how we see it in the Danish People's Party.This is, in our view, a comprehensive return policy. We think it is important to make this clear, and we think it is important that there should be as broad support behind it as possible in the Folketing. Whether that does so is up to the Social Democratic Party. If the Social Democracy believes that the most important thing in the foreign discussion is to safeguard Danish culture, Danish traditions, Danish values, to ensure that immigration is controlled and to ensure that we also send people back, then the Social Democracy will also vote in favour of the bill as it stands. But if the most important thing for the Social Democratic Party is to secure higher benefits for some of the foreigners who have just come to Denmark and who will come to Denmark in the future, then you have to act in a different way. But that is where I think the Social Democrats have to make up for what are the main priorities for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182558	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182600	From the point of view of the Social Democrats, there is no contradiction between voting against reduced benefits for families with children and voting in favour of the bill that is here. There should be no contradiction between that. At least there is no such thing for the Social Democratic Party. For us, it is not part of the overall policy. We can easily imagine that we can withdraw residence permits without having any connection with whether or not you have received DKr 12 000. or 10,000 kroner. a month as a single parent. Actually, I'm having a hard time seeing the connection. But if it for the Danish People's Party is inextricably linked, then respect for it. Then I also hope that there is respect for the other way in which it is not related to social democracy. If the Danish People's Party wants to secure the widest possible support for this bill, it is very simple: then it is just to support a division, so we get a clear political expression in the Folketing, instead of wrapping something into some technicalities to put us in a situation where we either have to vote for something we are against or against a lot that we are in favour of. I guess that doesn't make any sense. Is it not common parliamentary practice for us, as a political party, to have the opportunity to state what we believe rather than to end up in such technical teasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182731	It's not a technical joke. When we in the Danish People's Party, in the context of the financial law negotiations, have stressed that we, for example, must: Abandoning the integration service and reducing the benefit, moving on to a self-reliance and repatriation service, and being called a return service, it is because it is part of the new repatriation programme. I think that is very logical. I think it is necessary to respect the fact that the new policy in this area contains several elements: that it will be easier for the authorities to withdraw residence permits or refuse the extension of residence permits; that they will move from integration benefits to repatriation services and from integration programmes to repatriation programmes, etc.; that, as a refugee, instead of being entitled to a permanent residence in the municipalities, a temporary accommodation is now to be provided. All these elements are, of course, part of a comprehensive return policy, and if you want a strict immigration policy, I would urge you to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182830	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190124182848	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 25 January 2019 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
