ParlaMint-DK_20191107100010	The meeting is open. The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: report and recommendation on the election of the Ombudsman of Parliament. 28). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. Today there are the following reviews: Susanne Eilersen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 25 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ceiling on the award of Danish citizenship) and motion for a resolution No. Β 26 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the granting of conditional nationality). Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 27 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of annual 2-percent savings on group subsidies for parliamentary parties). Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 29 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on models of interviews with applicants seeking Danish citizenship). Søren Espersen (DF) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Request no. F 18 (Will the Prime Minister explain how the government intends to deal with the US's significantly increasing foreign and security policy commitment in Greenland, as described by the Berlingske Tidende in a number of articles, comment on persistent reports that foreign and security policy is being negotiated directly between representatives of Greenland's Self-Government and senior representatives of President Trump's administration, and explain the government's initiatives regarding Danish defence's future presence in and around Greenland?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100111	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100132	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100151	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100219	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100232	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. Then we will wait a little longer to start the first readings, namely until there is a little more silence in the Chamber. Now is the time for discussions in the Chamber to be concluded, and we will start the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100345	The debate is open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100359	Thank you for that, President. Unfortunately, we have seen some cases where dirty people have used good purposes to commit crime and, worse still, also to launder money and perhaps even to collect funds for terrorist financing purposes. We have a fine tradition in Denmark that organisations can gather together for good purposes, but we have also received criticism from the intergovernmental cooperation The Financial Action Task Force that the setup we have in Denmark is too fragile in terms of both developing and promoting the fight against specific money laundering and terrorist financing. At the same time, PET has pointed out that some of these non-profit organisations can actually be used for terrorist financing. That is why a legislative proposal is being tabled here which aims to get ahead of this, and there are four elements. One element is that the current system of information is replaced by a 3-year authorisation scheme for non-profit organisations; the other is that the requirements for the annual accounts of organisations are tightened; the third is that the composition of the Collection Board is changed to bring in a member with a special insight into money laundering and terrorist financing; and the fourth is that the rules for breaching good collection practices are tightened. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100542	Thank you. I do not see that there is any wish for short remarks, and that is why we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. We'll make it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100613	Thank you. I thought there would be a shower of questions for Mr. Jeppe Bruus about everything between heaven and earth and details etc., but maybe they'll come to me. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur for reviewing the bill. Then there is no reason for me to spend time repeating that. The bill we are discussing today is, of course, very much about confidence and security: trust that the money that you contribute donates for a purpose is actually also being used for the purpose, and confidence that the control of the Collection Board is effectively picking up when collectors have unclean flour in the bag. Whitewashing and terrorist financing are serious crime, which can have serious consequences for our society, and we must, of course, do everything we can to combat this, and that is why the Left was also at the forefront of a number of actions in this area when we sat with the government. That counts among other things. the law on money laundering in June 2017, and that includes agreement on further initiatives to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing from September 2018, where we include, among other things: In January 2017, we also strengthened the collection board's control of collections aimed at companies. These are all broad agreements among the parties of the Folketing. Today's proposal then goes further and increases the control of non-profit organisations, which are now exempt from the requirement to apply for collections. We do this because the Financial Action Task Force has criticised the Danish rules in this area, which are unmistakable. That is why, of course, the Left supports increasing control. It is clear that the proposal will place a greater bureaucratic burden on organisations which have been in existence for less than three years, but safety now weighs most heavily on the balance. We also support the element of changing the composition of the Collection Board, so that the National Police must suspend a member who has insight into the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing; that is common sense. Finally, it is common sense to tighten up the rules on good collection practices so that the Collection Board can withdraw an authorisation for collection and that there will be greater transparency with comments from the Board. However, we have a concern. In its response to the consultation, DI has indicated that the tightening of collections that we introduced in January 2019 has an unfortunate impact on Danish competitiveness and innovation. These are also stricter controls on companies using crowdfunding. This may make it difficult, for example, for new companies to pool capital for the company or for new services and products. So we would like to bring that question into the committee's work. We hope that, if necessary, there is a willingness to look at an amendment so that we can clarify whether we are setting our feet for start-ups, for entrepreneurs, and whether we can avoid doing so. However, despite this, I can say that we are in favour of the proposal as such, but we therefore have this point which we think we should discuss further during the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100922	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no brief comments, which is why we move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107100933	Thank you for that, President. As my colleague has also said before, there is no one in this Chamber who disagrees with us in order to prevent terrorism and money laundering and therefore also to tighten up rules for organisations that collect money. And the things that have been listed here, which I do not want to go through, but which others have gone through, I will not say so much either, other than that you may not come all the way with this proposal; it may be just a start. We may be concerned that the organisations referred to here are already registered and that where money is spent on terrorism and money laundering, perhaps there are organisations that are not registered. So we'd like to think that maybe we were working on looking at how to do it. I have also looked at a few of the comments made by ISOBRO that they could be worried that when the composition of this collection board was changed, you could lose a seat. I think you might want to talk to them about that. They have made some suggestions that you could increase the number of seats in this collection board or that the National Police could be on board as an observer or something. The concern they have, I think we should take a round. Then it also says in the bill that I think it is on page 11 that the members who sit on this collection board can I hope the minister can comfort me by saying that the people who sit on this collection board, of course, can definitely at the end of the story with the information, where ISOBRO has also mentioned that we should digitise more • that the citizen should be able to see more easily whether an organisation wants to support with money, is actually registered and behaves properly. Today there are some documents on the Internet, and you have to browse a lot of documents to find out. So we need to get more keen on making this more digitized. You mention QR codes and other things, and I think we should take a round about this and see if, for the sake of the citizens who use it, we could also make it more transparent with the technology we have at our disposal today. Otherwise, however, we are also in favour of the proposal and we look forward to the cooperation of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101209	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101222	It's great to experience the commitment of people who knock or stand on the street and collect. Yesterday it was Operation Daywork that went on the street and gathered in to improve conditions for people with disabilities in Uganda and thanks to the young people. But it also requires transparency and security about the purposes of collections, because people are confident that their savings will go for charitable purposes and should not suspect that they are going for illegal purposes such as money laundering and terrorism. I note that the bill is a way of responding to FATF's recommendations on the FTAF is an intergovernmental cooperation of which Denmark is a member and which develops and promotes recommendations and objectives for combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The criticism has linked itself to Denmark's efforts to combat terrorist financing in the field of non-profit organisations. That is why the Radical Left is in favour of the bill, and I can read that the original draft law required that the organisation should have existed for at least 10 years in order to be allowed to carry out collections after the proposed amendment, and that is why it is positive that the Ministry has noted the consultation responses and has now replaced a minimum of 3 years. Perhaps we would like to see in the legislative notes a little more about the extent of potential money laundering and collections for terrorist financing at this stage, a little more about the scale of the problem today. So it may well be that we will ask about it in the subsequent work. The Radical Left will also look in committee at the concerns of the hearings that go on this bureaucracy in the field of financial reporting, to see whether this should give rise to further consideration, including whether it is a very, very relevant thing that has been put in place in relation to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. We are probably not very pleased with the change to the members of the Collection Board that has been proposed and which is also criticised in several of the consultation responses, and we will therefore consider tabling an amendment, since knowledge about money laundering and terrorist financing could be usefully included in the secretariat rather than in the board composition. All in all, however, we are positive about the proposal, in which we ensure that the Danes can continue to have confidence in national collections.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101513	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101535	Thank you. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the control of collections, and we can only support that. The proposal proposes that the special information system applicable to a number of non-profit organisations, etc., be replaced by a three-year authorisation system. In addition, it is proposed to change the composition of the Collection Board in order to strengthen the Board's competences in identifying money laundering and terrorist financing, and it is also proposed to tighten up the rules for breaching good collection practices, including by allowing the Collection Board to revoke a collector's authorisation to carry out collection. We have succeeded in making a proposal with which the organizations consulted are very much satisfied, and this is to be commended. In addition, there is only one thing left to say that we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101622	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101629	Thank you. The reason for this bill is, after all, a criticism from the intergovernmental cooperation Financial Action Task Force, which has judged that we in Denmark have too little control over whether non-profit organisations under the guise of collecting for charitable purposes actually collect for terrorist financing and money laundering. We believe this kind of criticism in the Enhedslisten should of course be taken seriously. We think the government has done the same with this bill, among other things. by introducing an authorisation system and a change in the composition of the Collection Board. We have also noted in the Enhedslisten that the inter-branch organisation of the collecting organisations in its consultation response is puzzled that there appears to have been no further investigation into where in the collecting industry there may be organisations involved in terrorist financing or money laundering. A cover-up of the problem would, of course, make it possible to produce more precise legislation. As several speakers have also mentioned, we can see from the hearings that questions are raised as to whether, instead of extending the collection board itself, the secretariat of the Council could be strengthened and, of course, like the Radical Left, we would like to be involved in discussing the most effective use of resources in order to secure against money laundering and terrorist financing. Then we have noted with great satisfaction that the requirement of how long the organisation will have existed to be included in the possibility of collecting will be a 3-year permission to collect, and thus it is reduced from 10 years to 3 years. This is a very welcome example of the fact that the government has listened to the objections of the organisations. For a 10-year requirement would be far too rigid and cause problems for organisations that are no longer completely start-ups. Overall, therefore, we can support the draft law and look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101828	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Sikandar Siddique, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101848	Thank you for the floor. The alternative supports the proposal. The alternative agrees that there may be a need to strengthen the competences of the Collection Board. Strengthening the Count can be done in several ways, including through the provision of increased resources to ensure insight into the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing at the secretariat level. It is difficult to understand what a jury member with special competences in the field of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing has from insight into collection issues, such as violation of good collection practices. We will therefore keep an extra watchful eye on the Civil Protection Agency, which provides secretarial assistance to the Collection Board, and ensure that, in implementing the increased requirements for control and supervision, the secretariat of the Collection Board will have the necessary professional skills to carry out the supervisory and supervisory tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107101944	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102002	Thank you for the floor. I am here to replace our rapporteur on the draft law, which unfortunately could not be here today. I'll be brief. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the control of collections as part of the fight against terrorist financing and money laundering, and on the basis of this, New Citizens consider that the proposed demands in the bill are fair and proportionate to our policy in this area. NB fully endorses efforts to strengthen the control of collections in the context of counter-terrorist financing and money laundering. We fully understand the aim of the bill, including that collected funds should not be used for illegal purposes. New citizens thus back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102052	Thank you for the floor. The very content of the bill has been reviewed several times, so I will not do that. It is, of course, a bill that has an incredibly sensible aim: to prevent money laundering, which, of course, we fully support. We're a little bit worried about whether the bill might shoot sparrows with guns in some contexts. After all, making collections is an activity around civil society that is incredibly important and meaningful, and which has supported a great many good purposes over the years, and there we may be a little concerned that we may also be hitting completely peaceful blueejs, scouts and housewife associations, which have no intention whatsoever of doing money laundering. That is why we are now saying in the first place that we are supporting the aim of the law, and then we will follow the committee procedure and finally state where we stand in this matter when we have heard the comments and possible amendments that there are, so as to avoid bothering completely peaceful and harmless useful purposes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102243	Thank you very much for your comments and your broad support for the bill. It could be nice if in the forward-looking committee work we gave how agreed we were after all able to bring together the entire Danish Parliament for support for the bill. I am not going to pre-empt the work of the committee, but there have been a few comments which can at least call for a comment. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, remarked whether there is an unfortunate side to crowdfunding, which is a relevant question. Yes, it is complicated and therefore it is well suited for committee reading. In general, however, it can be said that the collection law does not, as a rule, apply to crowdfunding in the case of loans or purchases of property, or if the contributor receives something that corresponds to the value of the donation of the service. The Collection Act, on the other hand, applies when the contributor receives nothing for his donation, and if the Collection Act were not to apply to such crowdfunding campaigns, then anyone would be able to launch a campaign without any control that the donated money would actually be used for the purpose. But that is just the main thrust, so these are the considerations which must at least be weighed down and which can be taken forward in committee. Then Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance asked whether it should now be so if you decide to collect for the 15-year-old hopeful, who is going to take six months to France, and you do so in the family's lap, that you have to account and remember to apply for permission by the name, etc. It's not that bad. There are a number of types of collections which are already excluded from the collection law. This applies, among other things, to: private collections, i.e. private collections. collections made among acquaintances or among persons having a special connection with the purpose of the collection. It can, for example, be done. be a collection among colleagues for a farewell gift to another colleague, which would also be going to the steel, if it were also to be registered, one can calmly say, or it may be a collection among family members for a medical treatment abroad or other. Of course, there may be a need to look at whether the level has been set quite correctly, but the basic consideration is that the kind of collections should not, of course, be covered by the law and the bureaucracy associated with the law is right. I now believe that the cut has been made sensibly, but it can of course be drilled in the course of the treatment. So, as several people have pointed out, this is the question of whether we have hit it right now as far as the composition of the board is concerned. Is it now necessary that we also have specific competences in the field of terrorist financing and money laundering? Could it not be handled by having it in the secretariat? I think it is a good thing if we want to get on to the big blade, and we would like to do so in the case of money laundering and terrorist financing, to ensure that there is a Member who has this particular insight present, to be able to assess whether there is any reason to pay particular attention here and, of course, it will also rub off on the secretariat that this particular attention has been built up in the future. So that's how I think it makes sense. It may well be that there is a need to look at the composition of the members. A question was then raised by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, namely whether Members should not be given security approval. Yes, they must, and they must be approved to a level that is secret, and you understand what I mean. So, with the few comments, I would like to thank you very much for the broad support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102709	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102713	Thank you for a good answer to these questions. It wasn't so much family or workplace situations I was thinking about. That was more, for example. Scouts and other voluntary organisations of the same type that typically collect into the community for social purposes, a new clubhouse or something like that. It's just that it's important that the cut is right. Then I also think that both the 2015 and 2019 elections spread widely across all political parties the feeling that crowdfunding is in order and a sensible way of financing campaigning activities. I just hope that the Minister will agree with me that this is a healthy, acceptable and sensible way of financing election campaigns. I would like to hear a little more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102809-2	On precisely the question of the scouts and voluntary organisations, no one would dream of saying, when a roof is to be replaced or something done at the scout's cabin, that we must put obstacles in the way of scouts gathering for it. But where it can be a little difficult, there have been some examples without mentioning them on various organisations which are not large but which have also collected in the same way, and where one has simply had a reasonable suspicion that this money has not gone to what the organization has told them to go to, but has gone to something that has been an activity, which one must say is in the face of terror. That is why, when we start the work of the committee, we need to ensure that the cut is quite right. And then I will come back to the election campaign activities in the next round, because I can see that my speaking time is running out right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102908	There is no way of returning to it now. But the next question is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102916	I would also just like to thank the Minister for his kind treatment. The collection that we make when a Member keeps his maiden speech, I do not assume that it is covered either, i.e. that it should not be accounted for, etc. It's important that we get the cut right. Thank you also for the kind words about crowdfunding in connection with new companies. It is, after all, a form that has led to a great many good projects. But, of course, things have to be straightened out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102944-2	I think that was more of a comment than a real question. However, thank you for your kind remarks and thank you for your broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107102953	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Under the next item on the agenda, we need to put the rapporteurs first, which is why we are taking a deep breath before we start the negotiations themselves. There's some technique we need to sort it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103158	I think we are in the process of having the technology in place, so the debate is now open. Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103224	Thank you for that, President. After all, we have this annual debate in the light of the 'no' that the Danes gave to the last referendum to change the legal reservation. I do not want to conceal the fact that, of course, I would have preferred a different result from the vote at that time and, of course, I am also concerned about the developments that this gives in the possibilities for Danish police, not least in view of the fact that organised crime that we see becomes more cross-border and is becoming involved in new ways, not only in relation to the organisation, but also, of course, in relation to the tools that can be used both in the context of globalisation and in the course of technological development. That is why it is a matter for all of us to work to ensure that we have a safe and secure Denmark, and not least here in the context of cooperation with other countries on cross-border crime. Nevertheless, the Danes voted 'no', which means that, of course, we have an obligation to respect and recognise that result and thus work loyally within the framework of the legal reservation. And, of course, I think it is our job to work to ensure that, within this framework, we ensure in the best possible way that the Danish police have the opportunity to cooperate and manage the developments that are taking place. After all, when we were denied the right to change the legal reservation, we subsequently entered into a united parliament agreement, the Europol Agreement, which provides both operational and strategic cooperation. And then we have this annual debate to keep an eye on how the cooperation goes, and we take stock of the situation with the Danish police. Then, of course, I have looked back a little on what is new this year compared to last year and the debate before then. As far as I am concerned, when I look at the statement, I find it interesting that the limit on when we begin to experience real problems by having a legal reservation, starting to approach or moving closer. It says it's... Within a very short period of time, there will be a significant restriction on the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared with Europol members. ▪ And one of the biggest such challenges is that our Danish tools around POL-INTEL cannot be integrated with the European EIS, and thus the ability of Danish police to be as effective as colleagues in Germany will of course be limited in line with technological developments. This also means, of course, that we are challenged by the fact that we do not have direct unhindered access to the EIS and can develop a national web solution, QUEST, and thus have unhindered access, but that we have to go through the setup we have today, where we have some liaison officers doing this search. In other words, as things develop, we will see that we are facing some challenges with those barriers compared to other countries. I am glad that it seems that cooperation is good and that at this stage we are not feeling the major consequences. But it is clear that some clouds are pulling together on the horizon, and it is therefore also good that we have this debate. It is difficult to verify what it has had in the face of such quite specific complications in relation to cross-border crime, but I think one of the examples described in the statement, in other words very illustrative, shows that if you stop a foreign citizen or a vehicle from abroad, you cannot simply search that information directly. So you have to call the liaison officer, and that also means in practice that those searches will not be widespread on a large scale, but will be carried out when there is such a specific suspicion. At the same time, we can see that there has been an increase in the Danish searches in the EIS from 2017 to 2018, and it is also positive that, in line with the development, we use the tools that are then available. So I think it is a natural task for the whole parliament and, of course, also in particular for the government to work to ensure that we maintain the good cooperation, that we work loyally within the framework of the legal reservation and, of course, are also aware of the developments that are taking place. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103712	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103715	Thank you. Now the consequences of the fact that, unfortunately, it became a no to abolish the reservation of law are beginning to appear. After all, in the election campaign, all kinds of claims passed over the confused heads of the poor voters, and it was difficult to find out what to believe in. But now we can see the consequences, now we can see that Danish police are simply placed worse in the fight against international crime and terrorism than the police in the other EU countries, which are full and complete members of Europol. Will the Social Democrats take the Left in hand and try to explain in what areas we are disadvantaged than we could have been if we had received a 'yes' in the referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103808	I am not quite sure whether I know what that means by trying to explain it, but that there are some limitations to the legal reservation, I think, is quite obvious, and we did a lot of that in the election campaign then. I think we should also say that with regard to the claim that it will have no consequences at all, that is something that we will have to notice, and I think that we need to be honest about this, and on the one hand what kind of opportunities we are working for, but, of course, that there are some limitations. On the other hand, I think there is reason to welcome and commend the Danish police for the fact that so far we have cooperation which means that we do not, I think, feel the major, serious consequences. But I think there are some dark clouds that are pulling up, and that is why it is important in these debates too in the coming years to follow it very closely and then perhaps to use it as an opportunity to draw attention to where some of the restrictions we encounter are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103903	Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103903-2	What I'm thinking is that we should address it, write about it and not minimize it. I believe that one of the mistakes we made up for the vote was that we had not talked about the reservation of the law earlier, and suddenly, nonsense, we had to decide on a reservation of law and 23 legal acts or how many of them were. It is going to be very violent when, in the course of a short election campaign, you have to decide all these things if you have not heard it problematized before. So I am simply thinking of a good old-fashioned public debate... will the Social Democratic Party participate in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107103939	We always want to. I think it is very important that we have a public awareness debate, including in this area. Conversely, it must also be said that it is not so long ago that we have had that referendum, and therefore we must also respect its outcome and work loyally to provide security and security within the framework of the legal reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104000	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104001	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur to confirm that the wording that problems could arise in the short term was the same that was used in 2018 and it was also the one that was used in 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104017-2	I would like to confirm that. One of the things you can read in the report is that this web solution is where you can get direct access to it now starting to be rolled out in three countries, including Germany, and more people are jumping. In other words, I think that the short term has become even shorter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104033	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104035	Yes, but it also says that the time perspective for rollout is not known. So it is 3 out of 28 countries in the EU that are currently 28 countries in the EU? So it can be said that the Danish police, together with the huge majority of EU countries, are without any particular problems, for example. is not in a worse position than Sweden and has no worse conditions than the Netherlands or other countries that have not deployed this system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104108	I would like to say to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that I hope that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is right that it will have no consequences. It would be the best of all worlds. I can only fear that it will. That is why we also need to be honest and say that when we then hit the consequences, then the legal reservation has some limitations. But I also said at the outset that what it suggests so far is that the consequences are limited.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104133	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Bruus. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104149	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for a thorough statement. This is now the third time we have taken stock of the situation of the Danish police vis-à-vis Europol, and we are doing so in line with the political agreement reached by all the parties of the Folketing on 12 December 2016. At that time, the assessment by the National Police was that Europol cooperation would develop in a way that would put Danish police considerably lower than the police authorities in the countries that are full members of Europol. That is why we are doing an annual review of the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol, and I think that is a very good idea. I also think it is important to emphasise that the statement is completely objective. This is not something that has been written in the Left campaign secretariat or in the European movement; it is a completely sober description of the consequences of no longer being a member of Europol. And Denmark is therefore seen in this context as a third country... try to taste it: Denmark is a third country! I'm having a hard time with that. I have to admit that. We in the Left would have preferred to see the legal reservation abolished and Denmark had retained its membership of Europol in full because we believe that Europol is dealing with very important things: combating international terrorism, cross-border crime, organised crime. And I can also see that there are no-sayers who have since changed their minds. I have even become aware, and indeed the whole of Denmark, that there are no-sayers from the Liberal Alliance who have crossed the ballot box, and it has helped to tear the party in the middle, and a new party, Fremad, has today seen the light of day, among other things. in disappointment at the populist attitude shown by the Liberal Alliance in the vote on the reservation of rights. So I also have an idea that at least some of the 'no' parties are holding their breath up to the annual statement on Europol and are hoping for and crossing their fingers that it does not matter much and that nothing has happened yet. At least I would do that myself if I had thrown Denmark into that situation. Because we all know that it is only a matter of time before the Danish police are at a disadvantage when it comes to combating cross-border crime. We're not going to be in second grade or third grade, we're going to be in first grade. It was already apparent from the report last year that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol had already had operational consequences for Danish police. It may be said that it gave little self, since after 1 November 2017, the Danish police no longer had direct access to Europol's database, the EIS, but thus had to pass through one of the four Danish-speaking Europol staff with their requests within normal opening hours. Now a little water has flowed through the stream since we last stood here, and at home you can, for example. pointing out that the Minister for Justice has changed party color and that we have even got a whole new party among us, and looking at Europol, yes, the so-called QUEST application has already begun to be implemented in Europol's Member States. What may sound like smart science fiction a few years ago is now reality. This is the reality for the police in Germany, for the police in Estonia and for the police in Spain, they have the opportunity to directly access Europol's database EIS simply via their smartphone or a tablet from the road, or where you have now come across a person that you would have liked to have checked out more closely. As mentioned above, Denmark does not have direct access to the EIS, so the Danish police will not have the QUEST application made available. This lack of instrument can, according to the report, have an impact on the task of the patrol police in relation to immigration control, in relation to crime control and, therefore, also in relation to border controls. And I quote: "It is the view of the National Police that it is practically unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic announcements in the EIS via the National Police in connection with the day-to-day assignment, and that requests for postings via the National Police will therefore be limited to the few cases where the patrol police have a concrete suspicion that individuals, for example: commit cross-border crime. I don't know if I have to read it again, you can check for yourself. In other words, it is deadly and I fully understand the need of the police to prioritise their time differently. I am just sorry that we cannot give the police the best opportunities to protect citizens, especially at a time when cross-border crime is as serious as it is today. We must follow developments, take the debate again, if, or rather, when the situation so requires. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104721	Are a few brief remarks. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104725	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for this fantastic speech that we are on the brink of internal civil war, corruption, everything else, and I do not know what. We are a third country and we are plunged into a terrible situation because we have not joined this. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if it is not true that Denmark is one of the countries where, by virtue of our CPR register, we are a country where full registration is made, compared to those such as Bulgaria and Romania, which do not have CPR registers and where you can buy a passport for DKK 100. down the corner and maybe up to several names and for that reason still cannot be identified. So I would like the rapporteur to say a few words about what these situations are in Denmark where we are not with us today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104825	In the eight years I've been in Parliament, it's probably the most mysterious question I've ever had. I cannot recall that I have mentioned anything about internal civil war or corruption in a word. You might be able to look through the TV recording or read the speech. It is not mentioned in a word, therefore, so why Mrs Susanne Eilersen feels the need to put such words in my mouth, I simply do not understand. I am talking about ordinary international crime and the fight against it. Mrs Susanne Eilersen is talking about the CPR register. So, foreign criminals are foreigners and are therefore not equipped with a Danish social security number. So how that question gets in, I have to say I'm simply mystified about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104911	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104912	Then I'll ask you a different question. I think the rapporteur can agree with me that Denmark is one of the countries which both deliver the most to Europol and which pulls out the most information. We've actually risen from 88,000, I think it is, to 160,000 reviews. So I do not see that there is any problem with the fact that we are not here at the moment, but the rapporteur makes it sound as if we are far behind and there is a possibility that we are thus very vulnerable because we have not yet ratified this reservation. So I would like the rapporteur to give a concrete example of what it is that we have not been able to find out so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107104959	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105000	The fact that the Danish police have drawn a lot on Europol shows precisely the value of Europol, and that in future Danish police cannot draw fully on Europol as the three countries that have now had the QUEST application implemented, just show that Danish police are technologically advanced on the bus. That is why it is simply so foolish that we do not give the Danish police those opportunities. I thought that such things as border controls, the fight against crime, the fight against terrorism were something very, very close to the heart of the Danish People's Party, and therefore I think that the Danish People's Party should join in the fight and join with us in fighting these international criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105040	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105042	First of all, I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that the vote on the legal reservation, which the Danish people fortunately said no to abolish, was a vote on the whole legal reservation and not a vote on Europol. Europol was one of many things. It is more in order that it will not suddenly be called that we have had a referendum on Europol. We didn't. If not previous governments, among other things. That's it, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen represented, made such completely foolish decisions and made such foolish agreements with the European Union without a referendum, we would not have got into that situation, and then we could have fully joined Europol, but Mr Jørgensen must. Jan E. Jørgensen writes about in his memoirs, that is why they didn't. Just one question: does Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen not that there may be some problems with QUEST if it is the case that every police officer across the EU can ascertain whether a car is wanted or not? In other words, if I were a smuggler and had to smuggle something from Romania to Denmark, I would then arrange to obtain information as to whether the car I was driving was wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105152	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105153	I can confirm that the vote was about abolishing the reservation of law and replacing it with an opt-in system, so that in the Danish Parliament we could sit and decide which parts of the legal area we would like to be included in. Where this makes sense, we want to be there, and where we do not think there is much sense in it, we do not want to be on a roof-top table, a long sandwich slip, where we have just been able to mark the things we want to be in. We have just got the best of all worlds... that solution was put before us. But among other things... because of a scaremongering campaign from the Enhedslisten, which said that we voted in favour, it could mean that the possibility that people of the same sex could marry each other would be abolished. A lot of other lies, which came from Enhedslisten's propaganda device, unfortunately caused some voters to be in doubt and thus voted no. However, it was Europol that was the current occasion for us to have the vote, because it was there that was most urgently needed that we no longer had our legal reservations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105256	Maybe we should weigh the words a little. Sir. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105301	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jan E. Jørgensen confirms that we could not have abolished our reservations about Europol without abolishing the entire legal reservation. That's kind of the point. So that is what we voted on and not specifically on Europol. But the second question seems to me to be a little interesting. Is it a good thing that criminals need just one corrupt cop across the EU area?I don't know how many hundreds of thousands of cops are in the whole EU area to have access to knowledge about what is in the register that can be searched through handheld mobile phones? Is that appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105341	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105341-2	I think it is very clever that the police everywhere in Europe should have the opportunity to catch as many criminals as possible. And then it is true that there are problems with corruption around. It is, of course, the European Union, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Søren Søndergaard is trying to say that the whole police are corrupt, after all, there are more policemen, even in Romania, who are not corrupt than they are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105419	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105420	I would like to follow up on Mr. Søren Søndergaard's question to the rapporteur. When you look at such countries that are very, very low on the corruption list, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary, how confident will the rapporteur feel about the fact that the officers have direct access? They can sit with some criminals down at a meeting and be asked to draw direct information. How secure would the rapporteur feel about the fact that the officers were given that information and direct access?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105449	In short, I am simply much more concerned about Romanian criminals than I am about Romanian policemen. I'll tell you what. Some of the crime we have seen in Denmark has been committed by Eastern European criminals, and I think we should do everything possible to cooperate with the police in those countries to combat these criminals. It is therefore more important to the Left than the agenda that the Danish People's Party, together with its friends, at least on this issue in the Enhedslisten, wishes to bring forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105520	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105521	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur when, within this decade or within what number of years, the rapporteur expects corruption to be gone in Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. For the EU points out that there are serious problems with corruption. When does the rapporteur realistically believe that corruption has disappeared in the countries concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105542	I have no idea. But I can see that it is going the right way... that there will be less and less corruption. That is what happens in the countries that are members of the European Union, and that is what happens in those countries that are seeking membership of the European Union. And the police are among other things. put in the world to fight corruption. That is why this is merely an additional argument for us to help the police forces in those countries to fight cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105606	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105620	Thank you very much for that, President. I have received the honour of reading the Danish People's Party's speech up to this statement which is now in place. Denmark is no longer a member of European political cooperation in Europol. Nevertheless, the Danish police are searching Europol's criminal database as never before. In fact, Denmark succeeded in negotiating a special agreement with Europol after a majority of the Danes voted against abolishing the legal reservation in a referendum in December 2015. The special agreement gives practically Danish police the opportunity to use Europol as before. The National Police have an inventory of the number of Danish searches in the database EIS, popularly called the criminal database. The statement shows that the Danish police last year conducted some 160,000 searches. It was almost twice as many as in 2017, where 88,000 times were sought. 2017 was the last year when Denmark could search the database on an equal footing with Europol's 27 members. That option expired on 1 November 2017. The Danish People's Party has always believed that it would be possible to have a parallel agreement on the use of Europol, even though the Danes refused to abolish the reservation of law. We believe that the agreement negotiated is, in all practice at present, as good as actual membership. In fact, this is no real change in our relationship with Europol. We actually act almost as a Europol member. Employees who carry out searches and received their paychecks from the National Police are now receiving the paycheck from Europol. You can seek the same information as before. We are now on the board as observers, but since they never vote, there is little importance in it. A new task force has been set up within Europol since we got out of the supranational side of cooperation. We wanted to be part of that task force and allowed to be part of it. In Denmark we are actually getting even more out of the Europol agreement. We have only used half of the opportunity we had to recruit staff. Four people have been employed for the time being, and eight people have actually been able to be employed. The National Police have also said that the agreement is actually a good deal. In reality, this means that we can broadly maintain the use of Europol's database that we had in the past. The National Police explain that the large increase in the number of searches in 2018 was due in particular to air passengers. The only place in the future where Danish police might have a problem may be that the individual officer cannot access the database via mobile phone or tablet. But when it is going to work that every cop in the European Union can do it, we have to see one day. Because when we have countries like Hungary and Romania, where corruption is present, I think that it can take a few decades before that can happen. Then we also need to think about GDPR and those uncertainties that exist in relation to the use of those tablets. That was the Danish People's Party's statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105947	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107105955	Thank you. I have noticed that the Danish People's Party has been hot supporters of border controls from Denmark on several occasions. I would therefore like to ask whether it is the rapporteur's view that border controls would be more effective or less effective if the police were to be able to look directly at, for example, the QUEST web application in relation to the people they encountered at the border. Would this result in more effective or less effective border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110026	Thank you for the question. We will always be able to do things differently and better if we look in isolation at how to do it. After all, we have only used half of the capacity we actually have at the center in Ejby, where we have the employees sitting, so it might be that Denmark had to hire more employees, so that the opening hours at 8:00. Maybe 08-16 could be extended, and then I don't think a phone call would last very long. We can live with this in the Danish People's Party in the light of what was also mentioned before, namely that Europol is only a small part of the legal reservation. Under no circumstances will we be able to participate in anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110111	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110115	Now I didn't ask if you could make phone calls. As I know that the Danish People's Party is a warm supporter of border controls and does not think so many should get over it, I am curious to know whether it is the rapporteur's assessment whether it will be more or less effective if the police have the opportunity on tablets or smartphones to be able to look up directly. Would this result in more or less effective border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110147	Now I'm not at the border and I'm not the police, so I can't say that, but if you're going to search a phone or if you're just making a phone call, I don't think you're going to make a big difference in time, and then the people you're looking at have to wait. So I don't see how much importance it should have. That is not where my appeal in relation to the problem lies, because it lies quite elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110203	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110212	I mean, there's some people at the border. The police do. And it is the police's opinion that it puts Danish police significantly worse than the Danish police could have been if they had been given this opportunity. The fact that you can put your smartphone directly on, for example, a passport and through the chip in the passport see if anything suspicious comes up, and the fact that you can just enter a license plate and see if anything suspicious comes up is pretty smart. Does the rapporteur see that it is a little smarter and faster than having to go and pick up the phone and call Ejby and get a police officer and ask him to look up the system to see if there is anything suspicious about it? Does Mrs Susanne Eilersen see that there may well be a difference in the effectiveness of controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110259	Thank you very much for the question. Fortunately, technology is always evolving, and it is not the individual small part of what the Danish People's Party is opposed to. That is the package as a whole. And when the European Union is lumped together in the way it is, namely that if we want to change something and lift the legal reservation, we will have a great deal of other things with us, it is, as I said before, that this problem is not as extensive for us as if we were to join the whole package that is in the legal reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110330	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110335	Thank you very much for that answer, because I interpret that as meaning that the Danish People's Party can see that Danish police are placed at a disadvantage, but that it is a price that one is willing to pay, otherwise the whole package would have been received. That's how I chose to interpret the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110349	You can interpret it as you like. I also chose to say that I am sure that the Danish police, with the tools they have today and the opportunities they have today, will not be placed at a disadvantage. Fortunately, we have a border control which I know the questioner is not at all interested in, but fortunately we do, and I hope we will continue to have that for many years to come. So it is not the case that the police are placed at a disadvantage. I believe that our police can handle the tasks they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110416	Then it's Kim Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110426	Thank you for the floor. I take note of the rapporteur's assertion that it does not really matter whether you are a real Member or an observer. I would like to expand on that. Isn't there anywhere where this matters at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110446	But we believe that agreements can always be changed. If you can go down and negotiate a new agreement, then I think the government should try to negotiate a new agreement home, if that is the case. That's how things change all the time. However, it is not the case that an agreement should be treated in the same way as we abolish the reservation of law. Because what I said before was that perhaps we could have agreed to this small partial agreement if that was the only agreement to be voted on. However, as has been said before, it was not a choice whether we would participate in Europol. It was a choice whether we wanted legal relations or not with the other things it does. And that is always for and against, so if the government can negotiate another agreement home on behalf of Denmark, then we are also looking at it positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110540	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110544	So what I hear from the rapporteur here is that there is a difference, but just not right here. It would then be interesting to hear exactly what the rapporteur thinks there are for some differences.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110601	Well in terms of technology and what to do with it etc., things always develop, and countries evolve etc., and you always get smarter and smarter about some things. And I guess with all the agreements like this one, when you've had an agreement for a few years, you can go in and say: should it be revised? In any case, however, it must be an agreement and not a waiver of the legal requirement. Because if we are going to do that, then the electorate must really be informed of what this legal clause is about, and not just about Europol, which we are just talking about today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110635	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110641	Thank you. I get a little confused, because on the one hand the DF does not want us to be a full member, and on the other hand it wants us to make an agreement to be a full member. I really do not understand why the Danish People's Party is trying in this way to neglect that it matters. One can just read in this statement that we are debating. On page 8, it says that it will delay and complicate border control work; and on page 10 it appears that it will limit the Danish police's full day-to-day notices. So why neglect that it matters at the border? Does the Danish People's Party try to hide that this has a negative consequence?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110722	We are not trying to hide anything at all, but we believe that, as things stand in relation to the European Union and to the legal reservation, it is better to be left out of this cooperation because of the other things that lie in the legal reservation. If we looked at Europol in isolation, we could have a completely different talk and a completely different discussion about what could be done. Unfortunately, this is not the way things have been put together in the EU. You have to take the big package or nothing. If we could look at Europol in isolation, I think we could work out another cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110758	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110802	Okay, but then I interpret it as something other than what I actually heard in the rapporteur's speech. So the Danish People's Party really thinks that there are some limitations to the agreement we now have and that one would like to be a full and full member and thus also see the challenges that it can bring about in relation to QUEST and other things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110822	I said from up here that if the government goes down and wants to negotiate a new agreement on Europol, we are helping to look at what that agreement is about. I have not stood here and said that we will be a full and full member. Of course, we have to see what this agreement is about and what it is about some things that we can no longer control here from the Folketing and what it is we are starting out with the European Union. We are always in favour of looking at an agreement, but we are not helping to see that our legal reservation should be lifted. But if there are any new initiatives, if there is some new technology or something else, we will, of course, take a look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110900	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110902	The Socialist rapporteur read out a paragraph from the report which dealt with delays in border controls, and that is incredibly relevant. I would therefore just like to hear the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party whether the rapporteur can confirm that, immediately after the lines we were read out, the following is stated: 'The police are not aware, however, that such a delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. It is the opinion of the National Police that the scheme remains generally operationally satisfactory, i.e. that the small delays that have occurred have not affected the outcome of specific cases or investigations. If that is true, can the Danish People's Party live with the fact that we do not have to do much about the small delays that had no significance whatsoever?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107110956	Thank you for the question. That is also what I tried to say before, which I did not say properly, namely that when you can make a call and so on. And I acknowledge that the rapporteur read it out here because, of course, I agree with what it says, i.e. it does not matter very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111017	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111029	It could be imagined that it would give Christmas light in the eyes of a radical super-European with the prospect of a whole debate on the European Union and Europol, but when it does not give Christmas light in the eyes, it is because we are standing here at a rather sad request: the sad 'no' vote on a black December day in 2015, because we are again taking stock of the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol this year. As can be seen from the political agreement we reached on 12 December 2016, we here in the Danish Parliament are following developments with regard to Europol closely, and that is why we are doing so every year. Usually they say nothing new is good news. I'm afraid that doesn't apply in this context. For it is still the National Police's assessment that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol has operational consequences for Danish police • operational consequences for Danish police • a police force that is already heavily pressured and has difficulty keeping up. There are some things that we are still involved in, yes, fortunately, but there is no reason to rejoice that you are being overtaken by 100 km/h. rather than 110 km/h, our partners' opportunities. First of all, this statement is a big call, a call to the criminals, if they will not please • arrange to be caught between the hours. 8 and 16 in normal office hours in broad daylight, because that's where we'll find it easier to look them up in the systems. So let's hope they show this cooperation. For example, in the EIS system, which contains data reported by Member States and third countries relating to persons, criminals, organisations, offences, objects, etc., a national-seconded expert can be sought through a SNE during normal office hours between 1 p.m. 8 and 16, and otherwise such an urgent notice must be made by contacting an official of the National Police Department for international communication, who will then contact the head office in The Hague. I dare not think of the slow process of a non-haste announcement, so we must ask the criminals to keep their crime between noon and noon. 8 and 16. The same is true if someone had to stray across the border. Because there's already, as we've been talking about, a web application, QUEST, fully on the way, which you can use to look up in this EIS. It can be used by the patrol police in the field, in the front troop, so to speak, and here you can break up with tablets and mobiles in a short time. It's super smart in a 2019 world where things go fast, super smart, if you weren't just part of the countries that can't use the system, because we can't. Instead, we have to make phone calls. This corresponds to the fact that in Denmark we could not do google searches, but instead had to call abroad to say a keyword, where there was someone on the phone who said which search results came out. It seems a little molbo-like in 2019. Who would then search Google unless it was the acute brown potatoes on Christmas Eve? It is therefore the view of the National Police, which states that it is practically unmanageable for the patrol police to make systematic announcements in the EIS via the National Police in connection with the day-to-day assignment, and that requests for postings via the National Police will therefore be limited to the few cases where the patrol police have a concrete suspicion that individuals, for example: commit cross-border crime. This is a little thought-provoking, in relation to all the talk that has been and has been about border controls lately, because if you really care about cross-border crime, which you have to do with good reason, because that is where the crime picture goes, then you have to worry about the police's lack of access to QUEST. After all, border controls are of no use, where we cannot even check those we stop in the systems available, without spending a long time on calls, even if we have let them go on. So it just does and now you probably hate the word "checkout" for even more symbol policy. One might ask oneself the reflective question: if a foolish criminal is planning to commit crime, would one go to a country and practice crime where it is difficult to be posted in an international register, or would one go to a country where the police can easily and quickly turn you up in a tablet and a mobile? I guess I know what I'd choose for myself. That is why, in conclusion, I would like to point out that in recent days a quote from the Prime Minister of the country has appeared on the social media, which says that in order to take care of Denmark, we have to do things that we have not previously wanted to do. If it has not previously been desired to refer to the Danes' lack of desire to get rid of the reservation in December 2015 and which we therefore have to change to take care of Denmark, then I think it is a great announcement. But it may be that we will have the opportunity to become wiser at another time. It's just that this statement says that the criminals should preferably be caught between 2:00 a.m. 8 and 16, it remains to be seen that there is a significant reduction in the ability of the Danish police to combat gangs and cross-border crime compared with the police in the other EU countries, and, on the other hand, we can do something about it if we want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111642	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111648	I would really like to examine a little more closely whether there is really a need for a new bourgeois party that takes legal certainty seriously. Does the radical rapporteur not see any problem in it if we have a system in which all police officers are not in Denmark, but in the first place it is hit/no hit, but there has been talk that it should be extended to other information. Is there no legal security problem at all in this? I mean, camera monitoring and recording who runs all sorts of places is pure water in relation to such a system. But that is not something that the Radicals find interesting to discuss? All we need is full access for all, yes, are there half a million police officers or a few hundred thousand police officers in the EU to search the systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111754	Thank you for the question to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. First of all, I would like to say that this statement is, of course, about the status of the Danish police in relation to Europol, but it is of course also relevant to discuss on a later occasion how we deal with corruption and such things and how we deal with how other countries use their access. This is, of course, an entirely relevant and valid point which must also be discussed. But as far as this is concerned, it is about the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol, but of course all the other things are also relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111827	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111830	These are not two different discussions, because I am not assuming that the Radical Left imagines that the Danish police should have access to information in the Europol register, but that Romanian, Hungarian, Italian policemen, or whatever nationality they can now have, should not have access. I assume that we agree that this is a system that works within the European Union and that it is therefore common rules that exist, and therefore the rules that apply to us apply to others too, unless there is an exception. That is why this debate is extremely relevant, i.e. whether we want to move towards such a system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111909	Thank you very much for the follow-up question. There is no doubt that we are currently seeing a crime picture that is moving towards becoming increasingly cross-border, and in order to solve the problems of crime that is becoming increasingly cross-border, we need cross-border solutions, and that is what systems like this are helping to do, and that is that more countries have the opportunity to look up, helping to overcome the fools who commit cross-border crime. So it's quite relevant that police officers across national borders can break up with these systems. This does not mean, of course, that we can rule out other considerations which we must also consider, so it is relevant to raise them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111950	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107111957	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. It was during the Europol vote that it was pointed out and said that Denmark would be a hotbed of crime and large gangs and international criminal organisations. I would like to know how many large international criminal gangs and organisations have settled in Denmark since the vote and this agreement fell into place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112020	Thank you very much for the question. There is no doubt that, with this roll-out of these systems, the criminal, as I mentioned in the end, can reflect on whether he or she should commit crime in a country where it is easy to be looked up or whether he or she should commit his or her crime in a country where it is difficult to be looked up because the country does not have access to those systems. So it is very much still relevant to raise some issues, in relation to how the crime picture will be in Denmark, if Danish police do not have sufficient operational opportunities to combat cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112100	Carsten Kudsk, yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112105	I do not think the rapporteur is answering my question. For the Danes feel insecure? If you go out on the street and go for a walk in Copenhagen late in the evening, has it become much, much more dangerous to be out since 2017 because of all the organisations that have come? Are we talking about the fact that we have become the headquarters of Hamas and major terrorist organisations, and have they all found out elsewhere that Denmark will be a great place? Then I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that if such a thing would happen, Europol would also focus on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112138	I think it is rather strange that it is the rapporteur who will convince me that there is at least no insecurity and that there is plenty of security. My acquaintance is usually the Danish People's Party, who speaks it, that we have to be insecure and that we are now going to be extremely careful, up. I generally welcome the fact that crime in Denmark is falling and I think it is absolutely fantastic that we are seeing it. Unfortunately, there is another development in relation to cross-border crime, which is constantly increasing, and there is a need for the cross-border solutions that Europol is part of, and that is where we need to get closer rather than further away.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112211	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112241	SF recommended a yes in the 2015 referendum, and we did so, among other things. because we did not know for sure what negative consequences a 'no' would have for Denmark in relation to Europol. Now we have a special agreement and, fortunately, as the report shows, the National Police is of the opinion that cooperation with Europol works well within the framework laid down by the Europol Agreement. However, it also appears that the National Police's assessment is that Denmark's withdrawal from Europol will have operational consequences for Danish police when we look a little forward in time. Of course, we take this development seriously in the SF, and we also expect the government to address these challenges if it becomes relevant in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112339	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107112358	Thank you so much. The debate we have today is, after all, the result of the Danish people's vote against abolishing the legal reservation. It was such a bunch of weddings where the Danish people were, like, forced to face a choice and take the sour with the sweet, and then the people chose to say: Ah, we don't like that package. And, of course, that meant that some of what I think everyone agrees on is important, namely combating cross-border crime, was also rejected. That was, of course, the result of the way in which the vote was organised. It was, of course, the result of the hope that one had that one could make such a pile wedding and get it all adopted at once. And that is the situation we are in now. Therefore, it was also all parties that met with the Prime Minister and agreed that, firstly, we had to find a parallel agreement or a special agreement so that Denmark could continue to participate, and secondly that we also had to follow developments and see how things developed. Because if there were any inappropriate results from that agreement, we should try to do something about it. And part of that decision was, among other things, that once a year we had to discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. And we'd love to do that. In fact, we take that agreement very seriously. We follow closely the extent to which this agreement meets what it was supposed to do. We are following both closely whether there are sufficient means to combat cross-border crime, but we are also monitoring whether there is the necessary legal certainty or whether some steps can have definite negative consequences, for example. to provide all police officers in the EU area with access to information contained in Europol's registers. We've gone through this for ourselves. We have made such a nice schedule with different colors where we say: Where is there no problem? And: Where can And: Where are most of the problems that we can identify are problems that can come, and of course we have to address them. Then there are also some problems that are already existing. For example: we understand that Denmark cannot search what is about High Value Targets. We can't suggest that. It appears from page 5 of the statement that we cannot do so, and then you ask: What is High Value Targets? Yes, High Value Targets is defined as organised criminals who pose a major crime threat for two or more Europol countries. So I ask the question: why can Denmark not propose such a person, who is a threat not only to Denmark but also to other countries? Who cares? Yes, one can say that Denmark may have an interest in it, because then we do not help finance it, but if we now say that we want to help finance it, that we want to put money into it, then the other countries should be sky-enthusiastic, shouldn't they? That is why we think that the government should make contact with the other countries and ask the question: why can we not be in that part? What is it that makes you so much opposed to getting information about people who are dangerous to your society? We will provide that information to you by pointing to these people. Why don't you want that information? So, yes, there are certainly places where there are some problems, and in those places we agree, as I said, that there should be follow-up, and here there was a concrete proposal for the government. We also note that there is the example of Switzerland, which is mentioned as the very great example of something positive about the way we organise it here. Then all of a sudden we think of Switzerland being a member of the European Union? Well, maybe I missed it, but Switzerland is not a member of the European Union. Switzerland is outside the EU. So it is absolutely necessary to cooperate with countries that are also outside the European Union. It may then be surprising if you know that the Swiss Counter-Terrorism Corps, which, on the basis of a specific case, an act of terrorism, has applied for direct access to the anti-terrorist corps, will only receive a 'no' vote. So there is a discussion about how to combat crime in Europe, which is not just about the European Union, but about all countries. For people from Switzerland, terrorist actions are taking place inside Europe, and people from Norway can do crime in Denmark, etc. Surely we need to have a discussion about that. And that discussion is being put even more on the agenda of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. The United Kingdom is the country that puts most information into Europol. They're the ones who come with most tips • or at least a lot of tips, now I don't have to quantify • terrorist actions and thus help all the other countries. Can you imagine saying to Britain after they have resigned from the European Union: now you are no longer going to help fight terrorism in Europe; now you are no longer going to give us information? Or can you imagine saying to Britain: you have to give us all the information as before, you have to pay as before, but there are a lot of rights you do not get? Oh, I think that's gonna be hard. That is why we are now in a situation where we need to rethink the whole fight against crime in Europe and where we should not leave it to the European Union alone. We must put in place a fight against crime which also involves Switzerland, which also involves Great Britain, and which also involves Norway fully, and which is the criterion, for example. is such a thing about whether you have control of data security. Because the prerequisite for sending out further information to the police and the individual police officers is, of course, that data security is under control and there are a number of countries where this is certainly not the case. So, in conclusion, I would just like to say that at this stage, as the report notes, there are no major problems. There are still some problems that may arise and we think that we should discuss them. We would like a meeting to be held where we are discussing how we can be proactive towards it, and not by standing on the streets and alleys, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to talk about how terrible it was for the people to vote against the abolition of the entire legal requirement, but by proposing to Europol too some concrete things that could make us better at fighting crime in Denmark and throughout the European Union and throughout Europe. Because that's what this should be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113117	Thank you. There are questions, and first it is from Mr. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113125	Thank you. I am glad to note that the rapporteur has now read out another quotation that it has actually had operational consequences. And then we're back to the whole music here. Well, right now there's a party in a big hall, and we're out in the lobby. Then I understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that he is now mad that we cannot dictate what music should be or what they should serve up at the bar. It's about us being allowed to dance with and be part of that community, but we're not in charge. That's what we decided. And in fact the others were so friendly back in 2015 to say to us: Try to hear, we want you to join the party, you can decide whether you want to join the bar, or whether you want to be up at the desk and put the music on; if there are some things you don't want to do, then you can also be exempted from it with the opt-in system that is. We then voted against it. That is why we are in the lobby, and so it is a little difficult to stand here and point the finger at the others and say: "Try to hear, we must then be allowed to decide everything, to the extent that we want to anyway. That is the reality. That's why it gives us some opportunities, but it also puts some limitations on that. We need to be honest and realistic about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113229	Well, that's what they said, so it would be completely impossible to get an agreement. It has succeeded in reaching an agreement. Because when crime is combated in Denmark, crime is also combated in other countries, of course there is. That is why we have a common interest and it is a common interest that we have, whether you are a member of the European Union or not a member of the European Union. This may have been concealed by having Britain inside. But when Britain is outside, we need to rethink how we are doing organised police cooperation in Europe. We'll get to that. So with regard to the operational consequences: can the rapporteur read some of them out? I mean, what are the operational consequences it has had? Is it the ones down there on the border where there is a certain delay that cannot be seen to have had any meaning whatsoever?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113315	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113319	I don't know who said it was never possible to make a deal. Well, it could be exciting to know that we don't have to go back to the entire election campaign. Then I think it is honest talk on the part of Enhedslisten to say that you do not really want that EU cooperation. You want cooperation that is not specifically about the European Union, but about all the countries of Europe. There we are, then, basically divided about what opportunities such cooperation offers and how binding it should be. And that's quite frankly. But then we must also be honest in saying that when there is binding cooperation and we are out in the lobby, then of course we must work all we can to get the best possible framework out of it. But that's what we're talking about, and then we can't pretend that we can just dictate everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113403	I don't know if sir. Jeppe Bruus has forgotten the posters that were about Denmark being flooded by paedophiles, but we haven't been. And that Denmark would be flooded by thieves and what do I know we haven't been. And why haven't we been? We are, among other things. I didn't stay because we made a deal. So when it was claimed that this would happen, it was because it was suggested that it was not possible with an agreement. Unfortunately, these are the facts. Well, then, sir. Jeppe Bruus use it with the lobby and the hall everything he wants, but that just doesn't change the fact that we are in a new situation with Britain leaving. And I am sure that the Minister for Justice knows his responsibilities well enough to help find solutions that will enable Britain, as before, to continue to put information into the system in a way that makes them feel that they are part of it, otherwise we really have problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113501	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113505	Let's just get it in the ground: nobody said that Denmark couldn't get an agreement. And Mr. Søren Søndergaard very well. It was said that we could not have a parallel agreement that made us completely as if we were a full and complete member of Europol. And it is now documented here that there is no parallel agreement. This is a cooperation agreement. In other words, when the New York Police Department has an agreement with Europol, of course Denmark can also get one. So it has never been said, but it is forgiven. My question is that I cannot quite figure out what Enhedslisten really means. Does Enhedslisten think that it would have been best if we had had all the opportunities that lie in EIS and QUEST, and what they are all called in various abbreviations, or does Enhedslisten think that it is actually very good that we are not there because of fear of Romanian police forces or other police forces from groups of people that the Enhedslisten is apparently not so happy about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113558	The latter, of course, was such a suggestion that I am sure a former President would have intervened against. To suggest that we should have something against certain sections of the population, I have to say: No, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, we haven't. We simply do not. We have nothing against certain sections of the population. We have something against criminals and corrupt cops. And there are places where there are more criminals and corrupt cops than there are anywhere else. This does not mean that we have anything against population groups. That's the way it is. So that a little untimely hint, I think, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen must keep to himself. So to the question: our view is that it should be the Danish people who decide at any time whether we want to participate in such integrated cooperation as Europol. That is why we did not want to make an agreement that would have meant abolishing the legal reservation, which meant that we could not withdraw from Europol. Is that hard to understand? No, I think it's pretty simple. Having said that, it is clear that we want the closest possible and most practical police cooperation between the countries in Europe that meet certain standards and that want to combat crime. That is why we also believe that Britain should be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113709	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113713	I shouldn't have said people. I should have said countries, because that is what this is all about and the police forces of the countries concerned. I'd like to take that on myself. I still don't know if I get it right. So, the Enhedslisten would have preferred Denmark to be a full and complete member of Europol, as we were before, including all the possibilities that exist, so that it is not only Danish officers, but also other Europol officers who can have direct access to the search etc., or do you really think it is very nice that we have not been able to be fully involved because it is important for the Danish police to be able to catch criminals less than the risk that Romanian police officers, for example, might be able to access this information?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113805	It doesn't help so much that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen changes this to countries, because we have nothing against Romania, and we have nothing against all the honest Romanian officers who are. We just have something against the criminal and corrupt officers who are in Romania, and so there are more of them in Romania than there are in Sweden. That's not what I'm saying. That is what the European Union is saying. If you simply allow all police officers everywhere in the European Union to seek, there are legal security problems. But we can have that discussion at another time. I said clearly that we want to be associated with European police cooperation, where we have the opportunity to resign. That is what was abolished by making Europol cooperation supranational. If you are to resign, you have to resign from the European Union. We were against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113851	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113857	Thank you for that and thank you for the question before the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would agree that one can stand back with the impression that it is best, so it is best to catch the criminals between the hours. 8 and 16 in relation to the approach. Because if it's in normal office hours, you can do it through this SNE, but if it's outside, the National Police must call The Hague, and then a lot must happen when it's urgent. Does the rapporteur not agree that we are left with the idea that we should catch these criminals in broad daylight between 8 a.m. 8 and 16?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107113930	No, I don't understand. In other words, if we are talking about POL-INTEL, we should be aware that they have other search sources than just Europol's register. After all, they are also looking for the SIS register, and they are also looking for the Interpol register, and there are a large number of overlaps, aren't there? The way the system was actually used in the old days was to gather every morning from the police reports what had been of foreigners who had been arrested in different contexts in Denmark, and then Europol was put to investigate it and got answers back. It was a task that was solved every morning. It is not all the things that are urgent, and if there is something that is urgent, for example. If you're in a place where there seems to be a break-in, then you stop the break-in, then you hold people, ask them to wait the minutes it takes to make that search access. What the discussion is about is whether to have a general monitoring system, where you just drive around and monitor everyone, and then you get a hit or no hit in relation to Interpol's register. That is the discussion and I would like to take it. I do not think it is entirely unproblematic, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114048	I also noted that the rapporteur said on several occasions in his speech that it was satisfied with the state of affairs in general terms and therefore also satisfied with the fact that this is a significant restriction on the possibilities for Danish police, among other things. to combat gangs and cross-border crime compared to some of those already using QUEST. So I would like to ask whether you would rather have what it is now or whether you would like to have the opportunities offered by full membership of Europol.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114120	Now it can be said that the problem with regard to the southern border is at least limited because Germany has the system. So they are found when they cross the Danish-German border, in any case in Germany, and Germany retrieves the data from the same register that Denmark would collect the data from, namely Europol. So I simply cannot buy the argument that we are in a much worse position at this stage. But we think there is a lack of discussion, and that discussion is also in the European Parliament, and that discussion is also in Europe: how can it be if this system is so wonderful that only 3 out of 28 countries have joined it? Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114200	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Sikandar Siddique, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114216	Thank you for the floor. It should not be a secret that the alternative would like to see Denmark as a full member of Europol. It may be that a parallel agreement can maintain Denmark's participation in Europol, but in our optics it deprives Denmark of the opportunity to influence police cooperation in the direction we want it to. We support the special agreement that has been made, but we also note that the National Police see the challenges of the agreement. This should, of course, be the best reason why Denmark got rid of the legal reservation and participated fully in Europol. Surely we all have an interest in being strengthened in the fight against organised and cross-border crime. The fundamental problem in this context is that we do not have the right to vote in Europol. For reasons of principle, because we are part of a European community, we should have a board of directors with the right to vote in that cooperation. If we had it and we were full members, we would also be able to address some of the specific challenges and difficult circumstances that the police say they are experiencing in their everyday lives when they, for example, are faced with. cannot access international registers and databases. Finally, we would be able to influence how to avoid the misuse of such tools. This is therefore, in its essence, about parliamentary control of Europol, because when we give power to a body such as Europol, which can both facilitate work and provide completely new opportunities for cross-border police investigations and, at the same time, has a lot of important data on all of us, it is important that we have control over it, and that control requires us to be within the Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114410	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard with a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114416	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur mentioned that there with the board and our voting rights. And then, of course, we agree that on page 3 of this statement it says that Denmark has participated in all the meetings of the Administrative Board of Europol, their management board, in the past year, and it also says that we have participated in all the meetings of sub-groups for the Board. Is the rapporteur of the alternative aware that there has ever been a vote in these bodies? So, voting is something that is used at all, and is there therefore any place where Denmark has lost influence because we have not been able to vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114502	It puts Denmark at a disadvantage that we are not a full member of the board, the so-called management board. This gives us a limited opportunity to work officially in the management board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114515	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114519	This can then be assessed in relation to the fact that you are not voting, i.e. whether it is a problem not being able to vote in a place where you are not voting. But what is our position when England resigns from Europol because they leave the European Union? Do you imagine that we can get England to continue to provide all the information and do everything they do today for Europol, also pay off without sitting at the table and having as much influence as the others? Or is it not important for the alternative that Britain should be involved in European police cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114554	With increasing cross-border crime, it is crucial that our solutions, when we fight crime, are also cross-border, and that is why the alternative naturally has a desire for England to participate and get the best possible agreement with the rest of the European Union in relation to Europol cooperation. We have a hope for that. Nevertheless, we can only note that, of course, there is a difference between whether you are a full member of Europol or whether you are not. It is a fact that there is simply a difference, for example. in terms of how fast we can obtain data and how we sit on the management board.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114640	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114645	Yeah, it's for this question whether it makes any difference whether you're a member or you're not a member. One could understand in Enhedslisten that the influence is the same because one doesn't vote on things anyway. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, in the alternative, people sometimes attend group meetings which are not part of the parliamentary group and whether there is a difference between the influence of a parliamentarian and a non-government member and how often we vote on something for the Group meetings of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114717	I can answer that very briefly: there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114719	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114722	Now I did not just get hold of which of the three questions I asked, the rapporteur replied: that is there. I was simply trying to reach the obvious conclusion that, of course, there is a difference between being a member and not being a member, even if you are not voting on things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114741	That is also what I tried to reply very briefly to: there is, of course, a difference in influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114745	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114751	It's kind of the same question. After all, we are planning a party in which half of us pay, and those who do not pay will dictate what we are going to do at the party. We can have a discussion, and it may well be that it ends with a vote, but I believe that those who pay the party and who are full members and house to have more to say and that their words are the most important thing in the end. I am actually puzzled, but I do not know if it surprises the Alternative's rapporteur that the Enhedslisten here is trying to present it as if it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114818	It goes without saying that when you do not sit as a full member of a management board or any party or other organisation or board, you do not have that much influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114833	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114837	I don't have any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114840	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107114849	Thank you. Thank you for your statement. It is gratifying that cooperation with Europol is working well. This is in stark contrast to the situation that we had in store before the referendum on the legal reservation in 2015. Here we were given the prospect that it would not be possible to reach an agreement with Europol and that this would have consequences for crime in Denmark. Of course, it did not turn out to be true, because a few days before we should have left Europol, an agreement was reached, just as many of us had predicted, for who would have an interest in Denmark not participating in the cooperation? Subsequently, questions have been raised as to whether the agreement places Denmark at a much lower level. That does not seem to be what the statement says. It is mentioned, among other things, that Denmark is participating in SOCTA, and the National Police do not believe that the change in Denmark's status in relation to Europol has had any impact on this. Denmark continues to participate in cooperation in all EMPACT priorities. As far as liaison officers are concerned, the National Police is of the opinion that the cooperation of liaison officers is good and constructive and that Europol cooperation in this context is of major operational importance for Denmark. Regarding high value targets, I would say that Denmark cannot propose high value targets, but Denmark can be invited to participate in an operational task force, and Denmark has already participated in such a task force. The number of messages exchanged to and from Denmark through SIENA has increased by 18%. from 2017 to 2018, and the National Police expect an increase again in 2019. This suggests that the system works well and is useful to support police work. As regards the EIS, there is a delay in Denmark compared to Member States which can carry out a direct search, because the police must go through and contact the Danish-speaking experts who then carry out the search in the EIS. In practice, it will take a little longer to ask SNE to make notices rather than to make direct notices. However, the National Police are not aware that such a delay has had an impact on the outcome of specific cases or investigations. The National Police consider that the scheme remains generally operationally satisfactory. With regard to EAS, the National Police have stated that Denmark contributes to the content, but that in some cases it is experiencing increased response time compared to a Member State, and I would like to ask whether there is any concrete information on whether it has been significant in terms of increased response time and led to delays or a lack of answers to a question that has been asked. On cooperation with Europol on passenger data, I would like to say that the National Police have not experienced any problems with the exchange of information in this regard. Then we get to QUEST. Denmark will not have this application made available, instead the police will have to contact one of the SNE to obtain information on any registration in the EIS. The National Police estimate that it will be practically unmanageable for the police, and therefore it will be limited to specific situations. However, the National Police have not recorded how long the processing of a specific request for information to the Europol database takes, but state that there are very few requests outside normal working hours. Denmark has also participated in all the meetings of the Administrative Board of Europol over the past year, but Denmark alone has the opportunity to be an observer at the meetings. Are there any examples that Denmark's lack of voting rights has led to significant deteriorations for Denmark compared to if we had had the right to vote? As I said, Denmark cannot propose high value targets, and has it had a specific impact on Denmark that we do not have this option? All in all, the cooperation seems to work very well and the concerns seem to be fewer, although they should of course be taken seriously, including the lack of implementation of QUEST, i.e. whether it will put Denmark much worse than we would otherwise be. Compared to not having an agreement that was promised before the referendum, the result must be said to be quite good as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115317	There's a question. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115321	Now I tried to get an exciting insight into the inner life of the Alternative, so now I would like to ask a little about how to run political work in New Citizens. If you're going to do a search, for example. In preparation for a speech, is it so in New Citizens that you have a computer, where you have the opportunity to search for various information, or you call a central office, where there are four Danish-speaking employees who are asked to do the searches for yourself?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115355	It can be different from one case to another. It depends on how urgent it is. Well, there may well be cases where I call one of our employees and ask them to find the information for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115404	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115408	However, New Citizens do not think that it is very clever that you have the opportunity to go on the Internet yourself, for example, after kl. 16:00 and also without having to call an employee sitting in an office?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115420	Well, if sir... Jan E. Jørgensen listened to what I said in my speech, so I am not trying to say that there is no problem with the fact that we are not full members of Europol, but that the statement as it stands does not suggest that there should be serious problems at this stage. It is possible that this can be done in the long term, and of course that is something that we must pay attention to and relate to. As has also been said earlier, the vote we had was not a vote on Europol it was a vote on a large package. I would like to acknowledge that the agreement we have now reached with Europol is a little less than if we had been full Members, but we do not believe that it was proportional to abolishing the legal relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115505	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115508	I would like to follow up on Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's excellent remarks and ask the rapporteur on the platform when the rapporteur described that it was a little random from time to time, when you called a head office and asked for information about something, and when you applied for your own iPad or something: can the rapporteur say something like that about the distribution between it, if it is different, how often you call the head office, and how often you file searches on, for example, an iPad and the like, if you have to ask for information?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115539	Now we're building our secretariat, so I don't have the full statistical material to give you this information. But I would say that quite often, if I need some information, I would ask my secretary or one of our staff to find it for me. If I'm gonna need something here and now, I can of course look for it myself, and I do so in many cases myself. But it's not like I'm not pulling on our employees. That's why we have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115603	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115606	Thank you for your answer. I would like to ask such a little simple and a little extra clarification: if you get the same information by looking up something that you get by calling someone, where does the rapporteur think it would be easier to access the information?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115626	It depends a lot on what I need them for. Today, for example, I have to go. for a meeting after this statement, and I need some information, and I don't have time to sit and look at them myself on my computer. So, of course, I've asked my secretary to get that, and so has she. Now I just have to hope that I can read them before I go to the meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115640	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115645	Now it is the case that what you can search with the direct access from different mobile devices is hit or no hit. That is not information, at least not at this stage. There's been talk that maybe it should come. But at present it is yes or no. That's basically it. Now there has been interest in the internal working processes of the new citizens, and I would therefore like to know whether it is normal for the rapporteurs of the new citizens to speak in one word.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115714	I should just like to point out that we are not discussing the rapporteurs of the new citizens. This is statement R 4. However, it is up to the rapporteur himself whether the rapporteur wishes to respond to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115727	I haven't made a speech myself in just one word so far. Nor have I noticed that any of my colleagues have done so. So I doubt it. It will certainly be very rare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115738	There are no more questions. We thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107115748	There is another rapporteur's speech up here that someone might want back at some point. I won't hold it. It's only in one word. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council, Minister for Justice). Yeah, I'm sorry. But there's got to be some sort of order. First of all, thank you for the floor. And in fact, thank you for this debate we have had. One of the things that I welcome and I will come back to the points in the debate is that no rapporteurs at all have cast doubt on the validity of the statement. It is not the case that we say 'because that is the way we often end up in disagreements' that what is stated in the statement is probably not true; that in reality it looks a little different. In fact, I think it is of great value that we can all agree that this statement will be made every year, and when we have it, we agree that this is the basis on which we are discussing; that these are the facts that we have, and that is the starting point for our discussion. I just think that should be noted, because I think that is actually a quality of the way we are discussing it. The report, as has been mentioned on a number of occasions, shows, by and large, the same features that we saw last year, namely that the Europol agreement has been implemented in a way in which the operational benefits of cooperation by the Danish police have been preserved as far as possible and that it is the view of the National Police that cooperation has an operational value. It works well within the framework of the agreement. When the agreement was concluded, it was of course crucial that the Danish police were able to maintain the current cooperation with Europol as far as possible, and the statement shows that it has in fact been virtually successful in maintaining the status quo. I say this at the outset, because sometimes discussions about EU policy are different from our other political discussions. It will be very similar to trying to extricate each other's views; to try to shame some attitudes; to try to put other people in their mouths, as they have not really said. But the fact is that we have a good deal and that the police have done a very good job. Moreover, I think that there is reason to take this opportunity to praise the police, who have, after all, gone a long way towards solving this problem. This was not the solution one would prefer to have as a crime-fighting unit in Denmark, those who have to deal with cross-border crime. But given that these were the premises on which to work, a very good job has actually been done. We should therefore welcome the fact that the police in Denmark have said that this is the framework within which they have to combat cross-border crime. And I know that it will then be mentioned that there are other cooperation and so on. But given that this is the framework in this area, the police have actually done, I think, a very good job in ensuring that we can deal with the fight against cross-border crime. However, it also appears that the withdrawal operational consequences for the Danish police. That's the way it is. It has always been clear that, as a third country, we do not have the same rights as other Member States. There has been a discussion about what it means to sit on the board and how it takes place at various group meetings and up posts and down walls. We don't have the same rights. As has also been pointed out, we do not have direct access to the EIS, which is the intelligence database containing information on persons, criminal organisations and offences reported by Member States and reported by third countries. Instead, as we also have been over a couple of times, we get access by having four Danish-speaking seconds, second-tier national experts, we call them SNEs who carry out searches on Denmark's behalf. Regardless of how you turn it around, it is an additional link that we have to go through in order to be able to carry out searches in the EIS in relation to the Member States, and an additional link implies everything else equal a delay in access for the Danish police and thus a less flexible process. Perhaps that is the situation with the standing police, which may be a little more worrying. In fact, I liked sir. Søren Søndergaard's schedule. It was a little too far away for me to see it, but I liked the educational presentation with the red, the yellow and the green and the fact that there is something that is quite good here, then there is something that is a little problematic, and here there is something that may be problematic. If you are to start moving there, it is probably the future that may become problematic, because the lack of direct access also means that Denmark will not have access to QUEST, which is a web-based application that allows the police authorities of the Member States to search the EIS through the national IT systems. And it is true, as has been said, that it is true, for example. could be a cop who gets access to search in QUEST via an application on his phone. We can then have a discussion about whether it is a good idea or a bad idea, because there are stingy vessels everywhere. But for the vast majority of cops, who are honest and proper law enforcement officials, it matters. It means everything else equal that Denmark does not have the same tools as for example. Germany and Spain now have in the fight against cross-border crime. The other Member States will keep up and will have this opportunity in due course. I will come back to that because that has also been called into question. QUEST provides an opportunity for more flexible and quick access to the information contained in the EIS. And the trend is, therefore, towards a post in the EIS being made by cops and not just when they are sitting behind a computer, but also when they are out doing the regular police business. The fact that we are moving the fight against crime from offices to the police, who are out there, those driving the patrol cars, and those who are meeting the crime and meeting the citizens, is in fact extremely sympathetic with Danish eyes. We move the powers and opportunities out there where the first link in our anti-crime authorities is. They're the ones who sit on the patrol cars all the time and every day taking on this work. But we cannot take part in that development, and we cannot go along that path, because the agreement does not allow for that. It was also said last year and the year before, and you don't have to be very imaginative in order to make fun of the expression that the wolf is coming and the wolf is coming. It is said every year, and now it becomes something and so on.? And that's right, too. The rollout of QUEST has been delayed. But that does not change the fact that over the last two years QUEST has gone from being a desk project to being a pilot project and to now being a system that has been rolled out in a small handful of countries and where even more countries are jumping. And Mr. Søren Søndergaard and others have also asked: Well will it happen? Well, it's IT, so there must always be caution. But all the other things being equal, we have to take down the fact that it's probably going to happen and that we're not going to be able to join in. It is therefore the opinion of the National Police that when QUEST is fully rolled out, it will significantly restrict the ability of the Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to the opportunities of the other EU countries. I guess that's what you're talking about, sir. Søren Søndergaard's schedule, even though I still couldn't quite see it, was: What could happen? One has to say, when we are discussing this, that if we do not seek the outermost positions, but say that this agreement is made because we are happy to give the circumstances that are, given what the Danish people voted, will ensure Danish police the best opportunities to combat crime and given that a good deal has been made, but given that there are also some places where we can see that we are going to get behind on points. Then there is the second part with which we will also have a problem. One consequence of the lack of direct access to the EIS is that the Danish police are unable to integrate EIS data into their analysis platform, the one called POL-INTEL. It is true, as was also pointed out, that we are in contact with other platforms, but here there is a platform of information that we will not be able to use in our own police investigation data unit. This may mean that information from the EIS on e.g. traveling criminals or I almost dare not say it, because then we are in all this scaremongering, but now I say it just as quietly and quietly, sex offenders, who could otherwise have been involved in some investigations, are not part of the investigations in question. They would have if the EIS were an integral part of POL-INTEL. So where does that leave us? One part is that we should not overlook the fact that the Danish cooperation agreement with Europol provides Danish police with access that has a great operational value, because it is a good agreement that has been made that helps us to combat cross-border crime. It is, moreover, a form of crime which we must note is increasing. There have been a few occasions during the course of the debate in which we have touched on this issue, as to whether we could really imagine that the tools we are using are at all inadequate, because the forms of crime are changing and because we are going to see more and more cross-border crime. I think that's the way we're going. And we just have to say that this could be a problem. Having said that, we are good now, we should not be blind to what is the second part, namely that it potentially has operational consequences for the Danish police. I really think that's what I said at the beginning of the statement read properly expressing that balance. I really think it is a statement in which the police say: this is what it looks like; we have not added and we have not withdrawn. We take it down and say: it is true that something is problematic. After all, we have known that we would be worse off than the Member States. And it is good that every year we take stock of the position of the Danish police in relation to Europol, because our work is one of them. ensure that Danish police continue to have the best opportunities available in the fight against cross-border crime. There is a consequence of the no in 2015. That is what we really recognize, because whatever we meant in that vote, it can be said that there were other elements in the vote as well. That's right. But there is thus a broad recognition in the Danish People's Party, New Citizens and Enhedslisten that it has some consequences. What I think is our job is to ensure that Danish police have the best opportunities to combat cross-border crime. Is it tempting in some of these political discussions that we have to point the finger and say that there you can see; that is what we said? Yes, of course it's tempting. And it is tempting the other way round to say: there you can just see what we said; we could easily make a deal and a good deal. And that is the way we can discuss it, but in reality our task is to say that this is where we say that these are the circumstances that are now and that we must ensure that our opportunities to combat cross-border crime, that is, what matters to people out there, are the best possible. We have an ongoing dialogue from the Ministry of Justice with the police on the possibilities of compensating them. For example: other tools? Can we do this in another way that can help ensure security and security in Denmark? So thank you for a good debate. I'll see you again next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121153	There are a number of questions. The first is from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121156	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for his statement here. Actually, I have two things. One is whether we are taking advantage of the agreement we have today in the way we are doing here and now. In the task force or unit we have out in Ejby, there are four people, but as I have been informed, there may in fact be eight people. Now we've talked a lot about the fact that you can only be a criminal at the time. 8-16, but if there were eight people, could one extend that opening time to, for example, some people sat for longer days? And there might be other things in the agreement where, if we wanted to spend more money on it, we could do something more than we do. The second is that things change when you make a deal. If you make an agreement with your insurance company, you also regularly review it and try to see if you can get a better deal along the way because things have changed. Now there is a brexit at the door. That has also been mentioned here and things in Europe have changed. Is the Minister and the Government going to take some steps to go down and renegotiate all of this and say that now things are different, that there are other tools, that we are using the technology differently and that we would like to look at the agreement we have again, perhaps to make it even better?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121307	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121308	That is two good questions. The first was about whether we couldn't just gear up, so instead of having four people sitting, we had eight people sitting. That's an option. And in reality, it hits into some of the problems here. Because if we just turn up the bureaucracy, can't anything be done? But wouldn't we really rather spend our police resources on them being out there where the criminals are? In fact, I think it is unsatisfactory that we should go through this extra link. That is also what I was trying to say, that is to say, it is a recognition that it is also the second question, namely the question of renegotiation, because it must, of course, also come up. Given how long the agreement has worked, I think it is actually difficult to have the agreement renegotiated now. The fact is that next autumn the Commission will be carrying out an evaluation of...
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121414	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121418	Thank you. I can see that with more bureaucracy and something like that it makes it difficult and, as the Minister says, it's a pain in the ass about this link. But now the citizens have voted once that is what they want, and then I think it is also the Minister's duty to comply with it as well as possible and do it as well for us Danes as possible and use the opportunities we have. When we have the opportunity to hire eight and I think that perhaps there are also some cops who have come up a little over the years and who might be able to sit and search more easily etc. I am also aware that it might be foolish to start renegotiating something before we get on the other side of brexit. But one could already start as a minister to consider and think about what we can do in cooperation with those countries that are not now part of the European Union with England, and in addition, Norway and Switzerland have been mentioned and if you go along with something, you might also put more pressure and say that the need to do something else is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121515	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121516	What I was about to say, and I will continue to do so now that I have 26 more seconds available, was that next autumn an evaluation of the cooperation on efficiency and Denmark's compliance with the rules, including data protection, will be carried out, as we have already mentioned. However, there is no indication at the moment that the Commission will change its position on access to the EIS. This then brings me back to the perception that we have some police officers in Denmark who are doing nothing and in response to the question whether we cannot just take and move them, I must say that the Danish police are top-pressure, top-pressure and that we cannot just move people. That has been said in all peaceableness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121601	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121603	I would like to thank and sign the Minister for a very balanced conclusion. I think there was a little to some on the right side and that there was a little to some on the left side, but it was very balanced and, as such, a very good picture of where we are standing. Then we have to look ahead and there I think there are two things we should look at. I'm sure some people will use this to say that we'll have to change the legal reservation, and here we go, get started, but the rest of us need to look at it more practically. One practical thing is: can we extend the agreement, for example? That thing with high value targets? There is no question that we should come down and tell them to do it for us. We have to come down and say, couldn't you have an interest in this? That is one example. The second thing we need to assess in relation to this is legal certainty, and there we also need to talk about legal certainty policy in the discussion. I understand that; the police will always present the things that can ensure a hundred per cent solution, but we must also ask politically: are we interested in a hundred per cent resolution of all crimes? You can do it technically. But are we interested in a society where it is possible, for example. the implanting of a chip in your arm so you can always see where someone is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121727	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121728	The thing about the chip may be quite fresh, but it is after all the Justice Minister's • you can say the wet dream that all crime is solved. There we are, I would also like to say, a piece from there. So back to the real point: is it so that we, who would rather have seen that we had abolished the legal reservation, say that now we have to take a vote on the legal reservation again? That is not the position of my party, nor is it my position. The Danes have said no, and we must respect that. So that way... hey, I got 24 seconds left. Mr President, I thought the Minister was finished.' I'll try to talk faster. Does this mean that we have to find other tools? Yes, it does. What could it be? It could, for example, be done. be a new deal. Is there an opportunity to get one of these done right now? No, I don't think there is. Does Brexit matter? Yeah, well, I guess so. Laughter).
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121831	I just need to make sure the minister's done now. The Minister of Justice Yes, weeping). Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121836	I understood it as a commitment that we should discuss what we can do, and it is important that we do not do so only when the problems are so great that we must act, as it were, at the speed of lightning. We have some options now because there's still a little time ahead of us. That time is becoming less and less; we recognize that too, saying that in some areas we are becoming more and more challenged. All the more important, then, is that we are proactive. So I think that if we could have this discussion, perhaps not only in the Parliamentary Chamber, but also elsewhere, about what the practical possibilities are, what can be done and what is left of real problems, then that would be very good. The Minister can do what the Minister wants, but a thought that at some point attempts were being made to gather for such a discussion might be relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121932	Yes, that is what I was trying to say: given the circumstances as they are, given the reality as it is, we will have to play our cards as well as possible, and the common goal is to be able to combat cross-border crime. Would I rather have seen that we had stood somewhere else, that we could be fully involved? Yes, there is no doubt about that. Does it have consequences? Yes, it has. Should we try to cut off the consequences as well as we possibly can? Yeah, we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121954	Then it's mr. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107121959	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask the Minister something, also based on what the radical rapporteur said, and I remember that in the election campaign we were told that, if we did not become a fully integrated part of Europol, we would have criminal organisations, mafias, drug cartels. In other words, we would be a good place for all organisations that exist in the criminal field at all. Then I would like to ask the Minister: how many of the organisations have resided in Denmark since the vote we have had and until now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122027	Were you there when I gave my speech? Then I just don't understand why you can ask that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122036	Sir. Carsten Kudsk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122037	I'm sorry. I just happened to be up to something, but then I am sorry that I am asking the Minister the same question again. Because what we hear all the time is that of the criminal organisations. So I am sorry if I ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122053	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122054	I have to say that it is simply not serious. It is not serious when I have stood and made a long speech, where I have explained in detail and nuanced what this is like, that you then ask me to repeat it in 30 seconds because you were outside. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122106	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122113	It's a good style the Minister is exhibiting. All I have to do is ask about the consequences. Because we can see that the consequences are serious. We can always discuss when something is disastrous: is one terrorist attack catastrophic, are two? How many people are killed? How many criminal gangs is it gonna take? It will always be a trade-off, and the Danish police will never get into a situation where all crime can be solved, and certainly not before it is committed. So that's the way it is. However, it is true that there was a 'no' in the vote, and we must, of course, respect that. On the other hand, the 'no' has not been incorporated into the Danish constitution. That's to change. I am not saying tomorrow, I may not say next year either, but at some point it could be that the consequences were so great that we should ask the Danes again. Could the Minister imagine a vote in which the question was more isolated to deal with the fight against crime and not the slightly wider range that we asked the people about when we had the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122219	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122219-2	It is, of course, a reflection which we have made many times and many times in my own party, because we want to get rid of this reservation, just as we want to get rid of the defence reservation. But we must also note that this is a right that we have carried to the people at some times, and that the people have said thank you, but no thanks, and that is why we are now where the thing about operating in new referendums on the abolition of the reservation is simply not relevant to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122251	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122252	Well, no, but now we have a minister who has just made an absolutely excellent speech here to conclude, which I am sure, if it reaches a large part of the population, will be able to move something. Well, words move; words matter. Will the Minister at least prepare the ground for a later vote perhaps to become a reality? I am not asking for it in the current period, or for the next four years, etc., but the consequences are evident and the consequences are slowly becoming more and more serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122325	That, then, is a question which follows on from Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen's own speech to begin with and his question to Mr. Jeppe Bruus. I agree that some of what is necessary is that we take the EU discussions and move them out to the people so that it does not just become something closed that we go with; so that we can actually move positions out there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122352	Then we'll thank the Minister for Justice. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The last item on the agenda is the first reading of motion for a resolution B 11, and in this respect we must have the rapporteurs to take part in this debate back to their original seats. That's why we're just getting ready so we're sure everyone's in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122428	The debate is open, and in this respect we start with the Minister for Development Cooperation. Yes, it says so, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. It says development cooperation. We also have a minister for that, and the Minister is now in the Chair. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107122504	That's right. Thank you, President. Let me start by thanking the proposers for focusing on this important issue of plastic pollution in the oceans. There is no doubt that this is something that takes up a great deal. We see some creepy TV pictures out there of fish, whales, seals with plastic in their stomachs. This is a problem we want to solve. This is a global problem which must be solved jointly, and plastic does not know any national borders. Denmark is a small country, but we are large in terms of green competences. Denmark must also be an absolute pioneer in combating plastic pollution. Nationally, we are deeply concerned about this agenda. The experiences we reap at home can be used far beyond the Danish borders. Development aid is indeed a key tool here. For me, as a minister, a green and cooperative development policy is at the top of the agenda. I therefore agree that there is a need to strengthen action in the environmental field, among other things. to fight plastic in the oceans. Existing development policy commitments in this area show very clearly how good a tool development aid is. Let me just give three examples: Firstly, Denmark supports in 2019 with 20 million. kr. The World Bank's new fund, PROBLUE, where the Danish contribution is earmarked for combating plastic pollution. Denmark's contribution is precisely to limit the discharge of plastic from land through among other things. better waste systems, increased recycling and by reducing the consumption of plastic in the first place. Secondly, Denmark supports the fight against plastic pollution through P4G, our partnership for green growth and the global goals. P4G has among other things: the contribution to a public-private partnership in Vietnam where the parties will develop a local plastic recycling industry. In the long term, the project will contribute to both improving the marine environment and the economy. Thirdly, combating land-based plastic pollution is one of several focus areas of several of the organisations that we support, among others. The Global Environment Facility, which Denmark supports with 450 million. kr. In addition, the government plans to ask the Folketing for approval to grant 60 million. kr. additional to the UN Environment Organisation, UNEP, in 2019. Finally, combating plastic pollution is a focus area in our bilateral government work with Kenya as well as the Danish efforts in Indonesia. But let me make it clear that I agree with the proposers that the environment has not been given sufficient priority in recent years. The former Left Government, in its so-called green realism, made a virtue of not prioritising the environment and biodiversity. This Socialist Government has distanced itself from this from the outset. We want to focus on that very point. That is why the financial bill for 2020 has already set out to close up a doubling of dedicated green stakes. Support for UNEP, whose focus is on the environment and biodiversity, the government will ask the Folketing to approve to triple. The government is proposing to further strengthen green development aid in the coming years. I am very aware of what is going on in this area and what new opportunities there may be for cooperation with other donors in this area. Nevertheless, we in the government do not recommend that the resolution be adopted. Adopting parliamentary decisions on certain amounts for certain funds in the field of aid will tie up and prevent the flexibility that is the strength of development aid. We need to be able to refocus our efforts when situations require it. Conflicts in our immediate areas and natural disasters can, for example, arise. This means that our priorities for the development framework will change. It will be more difficult if the resolution is adopted. It is important for the government and for me that we get as much quality into development cooperation as possible, and I am convinced that we will get the best projects by reducing our efforts so that they serve more development purposes. That is why we should not have a plastic box, one for equality and a third for growth and employment, which funds parallel projects. If we are to have a chance to achieve both the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the objectives of the world, it requires effective use of our assistance, and this requires us to be able to think across the board. Let me finish by saying that I am fully in line with the proposers and their desire to strengthen green development aid and combat plastic pollution, but I do not believe that the model of earmarking certain development funds through resolutions is the right way to go, as proposed here by 1 billion. kr. for plastic control in the oceans. Thank you for the floor and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123119	There is a question from Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123121	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. I really think I have put on the positive glasses and I hear what the Minister is saying. I think it is very important to say that the Danish People's Party does not want a billion kroner to be used only for plastic. We write very clearly at the end of the resolution that we want to make the pot with the 832 million. kr., which we currently spend on nature, environment and climate measures, larger. We see, in general, when we look at development aid, a great many refugee flows today, which are not due to war, but which are actually due to environmental, nature and climate change. We think that the things that the Minister also lists about what the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament are already contributing to are good things. When we actually know where the source of 80-90 per cent is. Of the plastic waste that ends up in the oceans of the world, we would like to have a discussion with the government on how we could have a conversation with these countries if we now raise the amount and spend, let us say a billion dollars on nature, the environment and the climate. You have to remember that it's in countries like China and India that these rivers run. How can we put pressure on them? There we would like to have a discussion about what we should offer as a pioneer country... it should be 1 million, 100 million, 50 million or 150 million... and say: We have a global challenge with plastic in the oceans... how can we help to solve this challenge until we get these waste systems? So I actually hear that the Minister may be positive enough about that, perhaps not in the form of the text that lies here. But is the government, which consists of only one party, prepared for us to talk to each other during the committee procedure about how we can do something about this when we now know where the source is?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123302	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123303	As I also said in my introduction, we are very pleased that the proposers are focusing on this enormously important problem. Plastic pollution in the seas is very high on the agenda of the government. This is something that really worries us, and it is something we want to do something about. After all, we must do this by engaging in dialogue with some of the countries that are most polluting. It is also obvious in the context of development work to have the dialogue where they also say to these countries: you also have muscles to do something for yourself. You can also sort waste better. You can pick up the places where there is pollution. You can try to make an effort also in relation to minimising the use of plastic. There are a number of measures we can do. We have taken the lead in Denmark, but there are some technologies that you can also introduce to other countries. There it is obvious to use development aid as a tool to get others to do more, for example. China and India, which also have the resources to do much themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123401	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123402	Thank you. The reason why the Danish People's Party has pointed to development aid is that we can see, among other things. in Africa, where you really live on natural resources, that the sea plays a major role. As we have also written in the proposal, there are actually 3 billion people who get their protein from sea fish. That is why we believe that if we can have a better marine environment and thus get better fish stocks, then we are directly involved in making people have a better life and that fewer people are thus fleeing. But I would like to sign for the Minister to say that the government would like to talk to both the Danish People's Party and probably other parties about how we can do something about this pollution, which of course comes from a bad waste system. We know where the sources are today, and I do not hear the Minister rejecting having a shorter or longer period of time in which something is actually being done about the source itself, i.e. the rivers from which the plastic comes, while, of course, working on waste management.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123500	There is no doubt that plastic pollution in the oceans causes a large number of problems, which also brings with them, for example. problems of nutrition and poverty and so on. Things are simply connected. So we are all in favour of that connection. That is also why Denmark, with the development aid that we have, is already focusing on these areas and is launching various initiatives and working together with various organisations to put the fight against plastic pollution high on the agenda. We can certainly do more, and there I look forward to working with the Danish People's Party as a partner in the conciliation group we have in relation to our development strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123546	We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123603	Thank you for that, President. I was a little surprised when I saw the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party and it was positively surprised, I would say. Of course, it makes me happy and optimistic on behalf of the climate and the environment that the Danish People's Party seems to take some of the challenges we face globally seriously. I'm really happy about that, and I'd like to sign for that. It looks bright when so many parties in the Danish Parliament support the government's green goals and show a willingness to act, and I think that we have now come so far that we stand together in the struggle that gives the seeds for constructive and broad cooperation on ambitious climate and environmental action for Denmark. The resolution we are debating today is, of course, an action against plastic pollution in the oceans, and there is no doubt that this is a very, very important effort, and I am really glad that we have the opportunity to address it today. It is a very specific proposal which deals specifically with ten rivers, and it is clear that we have to take stock of that in relation to the ten rivers. In the Social Democratic Party, we fully share the concern about the massive amounts of plastic that pollute our aquatic environments all over the world. Of course, we must not ignore this and too much plastic is thrown into the wild and ends up as concentrated plastic in the sea or as toxic feed for the fish. Denmark must, of course, play a role in improving the marine environment globally, and we must take responsibility and combat plastic pollution. And fortunately, we are already in the process, not only at home, but also in the wider world. Denmark is engaged in a number of development policy projects, which the Minister for Development also outlined for us just now. We are already a combatant of plastic pollution, and it is even proposed that we should increase our commitment to the global fight for a better environment. Here it is important that we keep our tongues straight, because the effort must be done in a proper way. We must be as effective as possible in order to achieve the maximum effect for every penny we spend in development aid. That is why it is important that we think development aid into a whole, an overall strategy and that, at the same time, we retain the flexibility of development aid, as the Minister also outlined. If we start earmarking development aid for specific interventions, then we are, in fact, hampering our own opportunities to spend the money most efficiently, and we do not think that is what we are doing. I should also like to mention, in relation to the specific rivers, that five of them pass through China, and I must also point out that China is therefore a space nation. It is, of course, the world's second largest economy that they cannot find any resources to take on the task of combating pollution as well. Two of the rivers run through India. It's also an aerospace nation, which we need to be aware of. And now it has been the case that India and Denmark have a somewhat strained relationship, among other things. on the basis of the Niels Holck case, so it is not even certain that India will receive the support that we saw possibly. I'll come with you. In the Social Democratic Party we do not really believe that the method outlined in the motion for a resolution is the right one. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal. However, it is important for me to emphasise that we fully support the intention to fight plastic in the oceans. I thank the Danish People's Party for raising this important debate in the Danish Parliament, and I hope, of course, that we can also have a similar debate in the committees later on. I look forward to having good cooperation in the fight for a better marine environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123946	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107123947	Thank you. Again, I would also like to put on the positive glasses and hear what the rapporteur says is positive. I could hear that, of course, this is going to be a lot about the economy. We have taken some economics with that too, but then all the rapporteurs would probably have stood up here and said, "How are you going to fund this at all, and how are you going to do something?" But what I hear the rapporteur says is quite interesting because the rapporteur is now also the rapporteur for the governing party, because the minister also said that they agree with the intentions. However, what is important in the work of the committee is actually to find out how we are going to give the government a strong mandate to work on this. We are actually up to 4 million. tonnes of plastic pouring into the oceans and we know where it comes from. Then it is true that it comes from some countries where there may be some challenges, but if you just take the Yangtze River in China, then half a billion people live along the Yangtze River, which does not have sewage and does not have waste management; they use the river for example. to get rid of their plastic. And that's why you have to say that it's a Chinese problem, but it's just not that it's a global problem. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not possible to get a mandate from his party in committee so that we can work on how we could perhaps reach a broad agreement that this is what we should be working on. Then it may well be that there are some challenges in terms of funding, but we also have a meeting at the UN now, and we have the global objectives. There are plenty of places where you can work to solve the challenge of waste management, so that we do not accept that pollution from these ten rivers ends up in the oceans of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124114-2	Now it has to be said that I did not actually mention the economy in my rapporteur's speech. I referred more to the principle of having very large countries. In order to give a concrete answer to the question of Danish development aid, we use approx. 16 billion kr., so if we spend all the money on the Yangtze River alone, we can spend 32 kr. per people living exclusively on plastic down there in China, and we do not think that is quite enough. Of course we would like to discuss the subject in committee, of course we should be able to continue working on it, and of course we need to see how we can play a part in the government's work in continuing the good policy that has already been made in relation to plastic pollution in the seas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124159	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124201	I should just like to try to understand the rapporteur correctly, because that is a good way to make fun of it. We have not proposed spending 16 billion at all. kr. On this. We have proposed to have the 832 million. kr. to become 1 billion. kr. out of the 16 billion. kr. But is the rapporteur not frustrated that we in Denmark have a debate about what a plastic bag should cost us a plastic bag, which we buy, and the majority of them end up in the incineration process, and then we know that there will be 4 million. In the world's oceans, plastic. There, then, we as a nation must have an interest in the organisations where we are, to give the government in office at any time a mandate to fight for those countries to either take responsibility for themselves or to provide us with solutions to how to pick up this plastic. This isn't a problem for China and India alone, it's a problem for all of us, because this plastic ends up in the oceans.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124248	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124249	I was just trying to illustrate the size difference in relation to the number of people affected by this and, of course, in relation to the money we have at our disposal. The Minister points out that this is what I have done in my own rapporteur's speech, so it is important that we spend the money most efficiently, and then it is clear that some dilemmas arise. You mention plastic bags in Denmark yourself and that we are discussing it. Yes, it is one of the global dilemmas that is that in one part of the world we are highly developed, and we are discussing exactly plastic bags in our own homes, and in other parts of the world, in more underdeveloped countries that still need development, they are still discussing how to clean their sewage.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124332	Then we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. And the next one is Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124356	Thank you. Plastic waste and microplastics in the oceans of the world are a major problem, and in the Left we want to continue to give priority to tackling the problem. Most of us have probably seen the terrible footage of rivers being used as landfills, just as we have seen recordings of marine animals entangled in plastic packaging, which are now near death, and of fish full of plastic. It's very unpleasant videos, and it gives food for thought. Fortunately, in Denmark we are good at helping other countries to take care of the climate and to live and produce more environmentally sound. And as everyone in this House is well aware, Denmark is one of the largest donors of development aid worldwide, and we must remain so. With the Left in the lead, under the former government, we had a development policy strategy in which we make a significant contribution to developing countries' climate action. We have many initiatives to ensure a better climate and clean-up in the oceans of the world. That's something the Left has been focusing on. But we must also strive to have a balance in our development aid. That is why we have a development policy strategy in which we have several main points of reference. The goal is a world without extreme poverty, sustainable growth and development. We must ensure peace and stability, freedom, the prevention of migration and the development of democracy, human rights and equality. I mention this here to emphasise that Denmark is a major development policy player, and I mention it because we already have some important initiatives aimed at keeping the world's garden free of plastic. For example: The Global Environment Facility, which has a budget of 450 million, works. kr., among others. to reduce marine pollution. As a starting point, therefore, the Left also thinks that the idea behind the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution is a good one, and that is why I would also like to take this opportunity to praise the Danish People's Party for focusing on development aid and focusing on pollution in the world's oceans. However, it is important to bear in mind that we have a broad spectrum of development policy strategy where we focus not only on climate, but also on democracy development, education, gender equality and much, much more. All this must and must include a development policy strategy. The strategy runs until 2021, and I do not think we should run from that agreement now. On the other hand, we are open to discussing in the new development policy strategy whether we can look at how we can further combat plastic in the world's oceans. At this stage, however, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124653	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124655	Of course, we're sorry. I should like to say straight away that what we are talking about here is the proposal we have made with the amendment of 170 million. kr. out of 16 billion. kr. That's actually what we're talking about. So this is not a complete upheaval in how we think development aid in the future. And it's just that today we're actually spending this 832 million. kr. on these particular measures. The Danish People's Party is also part of all these good proposals that have been about waste management etc. etc. that you work with around the world. And it's really good too. But to put a picture of it, it is like the window into the Assembly Hall smashing, and the carpet gets all wet. And what's scared us a little bit is that all we're talking about is that we're gonna have to do something about this carpet. We're not even talking about there being a hole in the window. So we're putting on a new carpet. It gets wet the next day, and then we say: Well, now the carpet has gotten wet, we have to put a new one on. The challenge here is that we know that these ten rivers contribute 90 per cent. of the plastic that is in the oceans of the world, and that's all we're asking is: until we've got all the other good we're doing, shouldn't we be working internationally not only on the Danish side to pick up the plastic that's being discharged now? Can we really live with this 4 million? T plastic over the next 10 years continues to run into the oceans? That is what the proposal is about, and it is not a very, very big change.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124814	I fully agree with the rapporteur that, of course, we cannot live with so much plastic ending up in the oceans of the world, and we would like to continue to fight that. But we believe that it is too one-track to focus solely on plastics in the oceans of the world. We need to have a broad-spectrum development strategy. And if we follow the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution here, it will go beyond the development policy strategy that we have put forward, which has a broad focus and which goes until 2021. I think that would be far too one-track and it is an unfair use of our development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124848	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124850	So it would be unfair to spend perhaps 170 million. kr. more out of 16 billion. kr. On reducing plastic in the oceans, Mrs. Marie Bjerre believes. We certainly do not think so. In fact, if you read the proposal, it says: "The Danish Parliament instructs the government to take the initiative to target a greater proportion of development aid for environmental measures which significantly reduce the discharge of plastic to the oceans from the ten rivers with the highest incidence of plastic waste. We have not, of course, made the point that it is all 170 million. kr. to be spent on it. We'd like to discuss that. It may be that we set aside 50 million. kr. It may also be that we do not allocate any money at all, but simply give a very, very strong mandate to a government when we talk about development aid in the UN system, to work to go to the source where we know the plastic comes from. I think everyone's seen the interview from TV 2, where the reporter could walk across the water, and we can't live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124939	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107124940	After all, what the proposal proposes is to redistribute development aid and to spend more money on combating plastics in the oceans of the world. That agreement is part of the development policy strategy that runs until 2021. And we do not think we should run away from that agreement, but we are willing to enter into discussions on the new development policy strategy, which must be forward-looking, in relation to whether we can better target funds for this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125007	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125010	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for a good rapporteur's speech. Now DF's rapporteur started by saying that we should discuss the economy and where the money should come from, etc. Apparently it's all of a sudden 170 million. kr., or it's 70 million. kr., or it's 100 million. kr. You're not quite sure, but no matter what the money's gonna come from elsewhere. This means that they will most likely be taken from where we spend a great deal of money today, i.e.. In particular, sub-Saharan Africa. What is the rapporteur's view that we are suddenly moving money from the most needy states to states which, as I also mentioned, are actually space nations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125056	We do not think this is a fair use of our development aid. If we move so much money over to these countries with these ten rivers, it's going to hurt many of the good projects we have primarily in Africa. We don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125110	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125112	I am very pleased to hear that, of course, the projects that are particularly in sub-Saharan Africa are still being supported. However, I would just like to make a brief comment and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. It is good to hear that, of course, on the one hand you want to work towards getting less plastic in the seas, but, on the other hand, you still maintain a strong development policy globally, especially for the weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125137	I'll sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125139	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125142	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is fair that every year there are 4 million. We're just watching and we're not gonna do anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125157	No, I don't think that's fair. There is quite a lot of uncertainty about this, moreover, with the 4 million. a. There are also researchers who believe that it is only 0.4 million. But no matter how much it is, it is too much, and of course we have to do something about it. That is also what I focused on in my rapporteur's speech. The Left has focused on and will continue to focus on helping to combat this major problem. Because it is not just a problem for the countries, it is a problem globally, also for Denmark, that so much plastic is emitted into the oceans.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125230	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125231	It's pretty good to focus on something. I just don't think it'll help the poor countries down there where they live on fish and who can't do anything about it themselves. So I just want to hear the rapporteur when, if it is not in 2020 or 2021 or 2022, you stop just focusing on it, but really act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125255-2	You can formulate yourself in many ways. I could also say that we are already dealing with the problem right now. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we have the Global Environment Facility, which includes: combats pollution in the oceans of the world. There we have an appropriation of 450 million. kr., so it is not the case that we are not already doing anything today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125314	Then we thank the rapporteur and move forward. The next one is sir. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125333	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on the contribution of the major rivers to the plastic pollution in the oceans. In the SF, we agree that international solutions are also needed in this area and that rich countries like Denmark must take their share of responsibility. This applies to the green area, and it applies to all cross-border phenomena. We also agree that we should go to the source, and it is the hand that throws the plastic into the river, the waste water treatment plant that does not clean well enough, and the local authority that does not manage or prioritise the task. And, of course, the source is also the rich countries which, like Denmark, export our problem waste to developing countries, because we are not as good at dealing with the plastic as we should be. After all, it is not only the environment, biodiversity and fisheries of the oceans that are affected; it is also the quality of water and the fishing of the rivers themselves. It therefore also affects the polluter himself, or rather the people who live below the polluter, and thus the fishing and biodiversity of the entire river. DF proposes that we help the countries along these rivers with development aid funds, but without describing how the money should be able to reduce plastic pollution in the ten largest rivers in the world, nor what part of development aid should be reduced or reorganised, or its consequences. The SF cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, which, of course, does not contain anything else in the operative part. However, there are good ideas in the reason for the proposal, and DF, like SF, is involved in the common understanding of the future plastic effort that the Danish Parliament's parties entered into with the then government on 1 February this year. The previous government had also drawn up a plastic plan in the SF, we fought for it to be an action plan against plastic pollution, as a unanimous committee had requested in the report on the motion for a resolution B 85 tabled by the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. I believe that there is a need to tighten up both the Danish and international efforts to combat plastic pollution. I am thinking in particular of the conventions and cooperation agreements for which the Minister for the Environment is responsible. Here we can identify the possibilities of going even further internationally and in the European Union than we have already done, in order to improve international rules, while at the same time strengthening efforts at home. In addition, I should like to welcome from the Enhedslisten, who appreciates the intention to limit plastic pollution in the seas, but who is concerned about the funding of the proposal and is therefore sceptical about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125615	Thank you. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125617	Again, I am glad that the rapporteur, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, actually believes that the content is good enough in that way, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur something more. Because you can also do more with a resolution when you work with it in committee, and then it could be quite interesting if we could agree to give the government a strong mandate, in other words requiring the government to work for it here. Perhaps you have noticed that much of the background material that we refer to is actually from 2018 and 2019 so it's not old knowledge where you've known for many years that it was just these ten rivers that are contributing up to 90 percent. of plastic in the oceans. And so it would be interesting if we could work together in committee to give the government a strong mandate in relation to the forums in which the government comes, to put pressure on these countries and perhaps also to put pressure on them to come up with solutions. We do not have any solutions for picking it up ourselves, and that is why we would also have set aside some money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125715	I can promise the rapporteur that the SF is ready in committee to work in this area, and we think it is right, very important, that the government should also be strong in combating plastic pollution. So we would really like to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125728	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next one. This is Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107125750	We also thank the Danish People's Party for raising such an important global problem, which is 8-12 million. plastic that goes into the water every year. 80% of it comes from land-based sources. It is a huge problem, both what is at the top and what lies all the way down, which is found in the deep seas around the Philippines. It's everywhere. A great deal is being done, fortunately also by our own business community. Ørsted helps build waste sorting plants in Malaysia. Færsk makes himself available with a large ship for the project The Ocean Cleanup, which is to remove the large plastic islands in the sea. And also what is called the World Business Council for Sustainable Development has allyed and started what is called the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, that is, the alliance to fight plastic waste. It is run by a large company called Procter & Gamble, and they have now put 1 billion. And it's estimated that 1.5 billion will have to be added. Dollars over the next five years. So you could ask if it's money that's missing. They are just focusing on South-East Asia and are in progress. What is needed, after all, is capacity building for waste management, which comes from many countries around the ten rivers. I myself have travelled a great deal in those countries, including Central Asian countries, which are also giving birth to this major problem. How are we gonna do that? Fortunately, we Danida and our good strategy have the leg called authority cooperation, where we have about 35 advisors in 18 countries. They sit among others. in the countries mentioned before, which have atomic warheads and much more. They sit among others. in China and India, Vietnam and Bangladesh and cooperate with the authorities and help these countries, among others. also with green conversion. The question is whether, through our regulatory cooperation, it could also be strengthened, so that we also had sector specialists who could look at waste management and help with capacity building. We will, in fact, be open to this, but we will not necessarily now put an amount on what our aid is to be used for. Our assistance is as low as it can be. It's down to 0.7%. We would be concerned that other priorities are beginning to be taken away right now. We have also heard that the government wants to make aid green, but we have not heard that more money is coming. So if we also have to start putting more and more purposes on the same pool of money, it can be difficult. However, we believe that more attention should be paid to what can be done by the Danida and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for regulatory cooperation, and that is why we immediately welcome a proposal to look further at what we can do in terms of capacity building and to help these countries to improve on waste management.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130108	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130110	I'd like to sign for that. I also hope that the Conservative People's Party will be active in the discussion in committee so that we might be able to reach a broad agreement to give the current government a strong mandate to work on these challenges. I would like to tell you why the Danish People's Party has looked at possibly creating some funding in relation to development aid. It is precisely because we can see that the consequences of the pollution that is taking place actually hit the hardest in the countries that we can see people, among other things. Running away. It's the African continent. That is why we have then chosen to say that we actually believe that environmental action in the area of plastics is also indirectly an aid to these countries which are the recipients of the money today. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her speech, which I thought was very constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130202	No one else has asked to speak to the rapporteur. Then we have to put Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Alternative on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130221	Thank you for the floor. I would like to appreciate the fact that DF is making a proposal to instruct the government to find initiatives to deal with plastic spills in the world's oceans. We know that plastic is a major environmental impact, and it is therefore extremely relevant to address this issue. Plastics in the seas are very damaging to the marine environment for birds, turtles and fish, and therefore also for the local population of developing countries. This affects the possibility of inshore fishing and contributes to the food supply in those areas where food is difficult to obtain. It also affects the ability of the sea to absorb CO2 Today the sea absorbs about 30 per cent. of our CO2 So the whole world's population has an interest in protecting our seas. A major problem which is not mentioned in the motion for a resolution is over-fishing, for example. The EU's purchase of fishing quotas on the coasts of Africa. In UN World Goal No. It says that more than 3 billion people's livelihoods depend on the biodiversity of sea and coastal areas. Today, however, about 30% of fish is overfished, which is well above the level at which fish stocks can reproduce themselves. And overfishing, I'd add it's a quote... doesn't come from local inshore fishermen. Therefore, it is relevant to look at plastic discharges from rivers and over-fishing if the intention is to help developing countries. However, in the alternative, we do not agree that we should reduce the discharge of plastic into the seas by financing it over development aid. Development aid must go directly to finance poverty reduction. Furthermore, we believe that a general debate on how development aid is to be used in relation to the 17 world objectives of the United Nations could be a good thing. The motion for a resolution proposes that we use an even greater proportion of development aid for climate aid, and in the alternative we want climate aid to be beyond development aid. We would like to spend 21⁄2 billion. kr. annual climate assistance. Already at COP15 in 2009, together with the other countries, we agreed to increase the gradual climate assistance so that, overall, we reached USD 100 billion annually from 2020. According to John Nordbo of Care, this means that in Denmark by 2020 we should actually give 5 billion. kr. in the field of climate aid, i.e. money that goes beyond development aid. The same John Nordbo has calculated that Denmark currently pays DKK 1.3 billion, but the money is taken all from development aid. The alternative cannot therefore support the proposal, but we would like to take part in the debate on how to sweep our own doorsteps, for example. by collecting lost fishing nets from Danish commercial fishermen. In 2017, figures from the European Union showed that the network was 27 per cent. of all plastic waste in European waters, which corresponds to 11 000 tonnes per year. In Denmark, in 2017, no loss of fishing nets was reported at all, despite legal requirements. During the same period, 200 lost networks were reported in Norway, which they pick up annually on cleanup campaigns. The alternative is to fight plastic waste in the world's oceans internationally and locally, but it should not be financed by development aid. Then I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they do not support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130615	There is one comment on the rapporteur. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130618	Thank you. I believe that the alternative and the Danish People's Party agree on the intentions: we must have less plastic in the oceans. Then you can discuss where to do it. Should you go for fishing nets? Do you have to go for anything else? You have to go after everything. That is why I am perhaps a little surprised that you cannot see any sense in going after the places where we know that the majority comes from, i.e. these ten rivers. The rapporteur also said that the most important thing about development aid is that it goes to the fight against poverty. After all, one of the greatest challenges in terms of poverty is food shortages. When you can see that 3 billion people get approx. 20% I am a little surprised that the proposal is not more positive than that of their animal protein derived from fish, and it can be seen that fish stocks are shrinking, both because of over-fishing, as the rapporteur refers to, but also because the oceans are being polluted. But what I would like to ask is: is the rapporteur prepared, in the context of the work of the committee, to work towards finding each other and creating a broad majority, which ensures that the government is given a strong mandate to work for too, when we now know where the sources are?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130735	Thank you for the question. We would, of course, like to cooperate on how to reduce plastic emissions in the oceans. We will not take it from development aid. We do not want this because development aid must go to the starving, poor people, and part of this aid would go to India and China, where it is not possible to talk about the need for development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130802	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130803	I have, in fact, understood that, and several parties have said so in relation to funding. However, if the rapporteur does not agree that if we now know that the majority of the plastic that ends up in the oceans comes from ten rivers, then we must have given the Danish Government a strong mandate from the Danish Parliament at any time, which says that whenever possible, whether it is the world goals we are talking about, whether it is in the United Nations, whereever it is in the world, we send our ministers out, they must have a mandate with which they take care to put pressure on these countries, especially China, where half a billion people direct pollution out into, among others. The Yangtze River. We have to give that mandate to the government, and then we have to find out how to work with it financially if we cannot agree on it. But does the rapporteur not agree that it is a huge challenge for these ten rivers to deliver as much of the plastic as we find in the oceans of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130850	Yes, I agree with that, just as I would like to point out that we must do something ourselves. However, the alternative would like to help give a mandate to the government to combat plastic spills in the oceans of the world. We must then look at how we can do it with knowledge sharing and with wise, good negotiation so that we do not affect development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130914	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130915	Thank you very much. After all, it is not every day that you hear that DF and the Alternative agree. So it's nice to hear that we can find each other around plastic waste in the oceans. The fight against poverty is not just a matter of food, it is not just a question of finding protein for people. It is also a question of empowering people. provide them with some training, provide them with some good infrastructures, etc. Does the rapporteur agree that we should, of course, focus on some of the things that are long-lasting and not just have the short focus on food?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107130956-2	Thank you for the question. Of course, I agree with that. If we are to help the developing countries, we need a long-term plan and we need to think in terms of things. So I can only back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131009	We thank Mrs Susanne Zimmer. And then we have to move on. I'm sorry. Kasper Roug If the President does not think I should speak, I can of course resign. ) It is always helpful to remember to press when you want to have the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131015	I think we all agree that this is, of course, something that needs to be returned to committee and that we must, of course, work on it in committee. I am very pleased that all the parties want to participate in this and will help to support the strong government policy. What is the rapporteur's view that, of course, we are going back to committee and that, of course, we want to work on plastic, but of course we also want to work on plastics in general at global and not just national level?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131055	I was actually hoping that I had made it clear that we should work on it on all fronts. I would actually like to take this opportunity to say again that the large European coastal trawlers who catch fish outside the coasts of Africa are, of course, doing so. This is another issue, but also a really important one.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131118	Then I do not see that any more have been written in short to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, and I therefore give the floor to Mr Susanne Zimmer. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131128	Thank you. New citizens agree that waste, including plastic in the oceans of the world, is a major challenge for both the environment and communities, local, regional and global. Proper handling of plastic and other waste will contribute to a better ecosystem for all of us, but that among other things. Chinese million cities along the banks of the river have absolutely no control over how they handle the large amounts of plastic waste, the Danish taxpayers should not be fined for. The Chinese and other peoples, e.g. in Africa, can and must pay for the development of efficient waste sorting and waste management. This can never be a task for the Danish taxpayers. In New Citizens, we would rather at all diplomatic levels try to push for the Chinese and Africans to pull themselves together and stop hoarding the rivers with plastic and other waste. The Chinese and Africans themselves must take responsibility for managing their environment, just as we in Europe take responsibility for our waste sorting and plastic handling, and therefore New Citizens cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131228	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131239	Thank you. It is not so often that the Social Democracy, the New Citizens and the Alternative are in the same boat. You are here and you will not use foreign aid to do anything about it. The Danish People's Party has understood that. That is what all the rapporteurs who have been on the floor have said. So what I just want to ask is whether, in the context of the work of the committee, the rapporteur will be prepared to enter into a dialogue on how we can give the government a strong mandate in another way, precisely because, as the rapporteur says, pressure will be put on these countries and put an end to this plastic discharge, which is coming precisely because there is no proper waste management, sewage collection, etc. And that is the possibility of a motion for a resolution; to end up with a report in which we put that pressure on a government in place at all times. Is the rapporteur prepared to take part in this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131320	If there are any good suggestions on how to do that, we will of course look at it. The crucial thing for us is that it is not Danish taxpayers who have to pay to pick up garbage after people in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131332	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131334	I take this as a very positive approach, so I will look forward to the committee work that is now coming. Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131340	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131342	Thank you. One of the things that cut my ears a little bit now I'm a little curious was that the rapporteur mentioned something about Danish taxpayers not being involved in paying. Is this about development in African countries or cleaning? What are the Danish taxpayers not supposed to be paying for?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131406	In this specific case, they should not help to clean up plastic waste in developing countries, but in general our policy is also that we believe that aid for developing countries should be abolished and that money should only be spent in crisis situations and also in the management of refugees through the UN.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131431	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131432	Thank you. It is something of the heartblood of a social democrat like me that you should never care about other people. In fact, I think it tends to do so when New Citizens have the view on development aid that it should be solely to sustain the lives of these people and that they will not be involved in the development of these countries, despite the fact that we do have very great benefits from drawing resources from developing countries to, among other things, developing countries. Denmark. That is why I think it is a pity that the rapporteur has a view of people who tends to be indifferent to others. Of course, I'm very upset about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131517	I certainly care about others, and I wonder why I should have mentioned my human vision again. The problem with development aid is that it does not work. Lots of studies have been done that have shown that it doesn't work, that it doesn't have a long-term effect, and therefore it doesn't do any good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131535	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131537	Thank you. It's an interesting attitude to have that nothing works. It is clear that there are several things that are difficult when you are working with development aid or you are trying to work with transforming countries. It's not easy. There is a lot to learn and a lot to learn, and many experiences are also being gained along the way. I certainly do not agree with the view that it does not help, and it is not only because I myself have been working on it for 20 years in various ways. When we look at waste, we can say that it does not come only nationally. After all, it is also products that have been sent across borders from elsewhere, from which those countries have become consumers. It is not the case that it is only the nationally produced that they themselves have to deal with and that a bell of cheese could be laid down over those countries. So I think it is sad to hear that one cannot see that waste and plastic are a global problem which actually also concerns us, and that is plastic, which is mainly produced in Western countries. Now you can ask whether we should help India and China, which are, after all, strong countries. There are several ways to do that. As I mentioned earlier, it is not money, but it is capacity. But it is all the other countries behind that do not have the capacity to do so, but where we can help them by other means, among other things. through the private sector. New citizens want the private sector. Does New Citizens see no possibility that the private sector can do anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131705	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131706	Yes, absolutely. We are always in favour of it if the private sector is to do something. But it should not then be financed by public funds. Then it has to be a business, and of course we are always in favour of it. The rapporteur speaks of plastic being produced in the West and consumed elsewhere. That is why it must still be the responsibility of the final consumer to get rid of it in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131738	It is in Denmark too, but we haven't got that far ourselves. However, in order for the private sector to operate, there is something called capacity building of authorities and waste sorting, and that is not privatised. The West Burning isn't private either. So don't you see any possibility of working together and also using public funds and public knowledge to help those countries strengthen their waste systems?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131803-2	Of course, public knowledge is provided if the public authorities can contribute with knowledge but not public funds. We believe that this must be done on a private basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131813	No one else has signed up for comments on Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mr. Liberal Alliance. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131827	Thank you. Politics is, of course, about priorities, and of course it is also about development policy when we are going to discuss a new development policy strategy for Denmark at some point. And then, and in general, we have different priorities in the Liberal Alliance. One of them is that we broadly want to spend fewer tax dollars on development aid. We believe that the money is better spent on better food in the Danish nursing homes, to invest in a green transition in Denmark or to lower the tax for the Danes who are in work. So, in general, we have a priority that we need fewer aid crowns, and in relation to the aid crowns we then use, our overall priority is that we channel more of the crowns towards building camps for refugees in the neighbourhood. These are our overall priorities, which is why we are also reluctant to vote in favour of a resolution which does not move in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131926	Sir. René Christensen has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107131928	This is precisely the direction in which we are moving, because if there is less plastics in the oceans, we can see that then fish stocks will get better. And you can see, if you look at the African continent, that there actually means a great deal to fish when people do not get away. So this is indirect. That is also why we in the Danish People's Party have proposed to finance this, because in the long run this will mean that we will have fewer refugees of poverty if you see it with those glasses; this is not new money. I must say straight away that the Danish People's Party does not want to increase. As far as the 832 million is concerned. kr., we are currently spending on nature, environment and climate, we have a proposal that it could, for example, reach 1 billion. kr., i.e. about 170 million. kr. more than you use today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132016-2	We think that the approximately 800 million. kr. that is used today is enough, and when you have to discuss how to spend the rest of the money, where we want to spend less money at all, we want to spend more money on refugee camps in the neighbourhood. We can then discuss whether improving fish stocks means that there will then be fewer refugees. But it doesn't help when it comes to setting up these camps. And these are the priorities we have, and it is fair that we disagree with the priorities of the Liberal Alliance, just as we may disagree with some of the priorities of the Danish People's Party. And that is why we do not support this motion for a resolution. But I feel this way, to mention something more constructive, that when we are about to give a new priority, if we can prioritize some money away from, what should we say, the worst project-making that we see in DIPD and other organisations, and towards something that might counteract pollution of the oceans, then we can be constructive about it. However, we have a different approach in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132119	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132119-2	The last thing I am really happy to hear, because what I see is that what is meant in the Liberal Alliance is also that it is of course a problem that so much plastic is put in the oceans of the world. We are in agreement on this. Then we can disagree on how to finance it, and that is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur, when we deal with it here in committee, whether the Liberal Alliance will take an active part in it and find out how we can also give the government a strong mandate. Actually, it doesn't have to cost anything. But it's all about being able to do it every single time you have the chance. When you have talks with China, pressure is also being put on that China will have to sort out the source of pollution which, among other things, has to be addressed. comes from the Yangtze River, where up to half a billion people use nature as a landfill. Does the Liberal Alliance agree that this is a challenge for all and that it is also a challenge in relation to refugee flows?
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132205-2	So, in relation to the overall, general with that there are some challenges: Yes, certainly, and that is also why we spend a great deal of money on it. Otherwise, however, the general direction and position of principle are what I described earlier. And in relation to the specific work of the committee, I am confident that Mr. Henrik Dahl, our rapporteur in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132222	No one else has signed up for short remarks. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132238	Thank you for the debate. I think it has actually been excellent. Thank you, too, to the Minister for his approach to the proposal and to the rapporteurs who have been up here. What I have heard is that it is generally agreed that we now know that these ten rivers contribute something similar to 80-90 per cent. of the plastic waste that comes from the world's rivers. It's a challenge. I would also like to say that the reason why we are presenting the proposal now is that it is actually new knowledge. This wasn't something we talked about 5-6 years ago, so it was these ten rivers that the plastic came from. It is because research projects and other projects have been carried out that have now come out with this. Then it is right that I think it was the alternative that said that there is a challenge to discuss whether it is 4 million. t, whether it is 1 million. t or how many tonnes are discharged. But what you agree on is that if you start picking up from these ten rivers, you can actually get 45%. less plastic in the oceans... that's what you're agreed on. Then you can discuss the quantities, but 45%. After all, less plastic is something to go on, and we actually think it is quite ambitious. We would then have proposed a source of funding because nothing can ever be done without it costing some money, and we can hear that one does not agree with it. But the alternative is, of course, that in committee we try to work on how to get a special focus on these ten rivers. This is certainly not something that we in the Danish People's Party have experienced in the past. Much else has been focused on, as the Minister explained so well. You work on how to recycle waste; you work on waste management; you work on sewage treatment, etc. This isn't to stop what we're doing already; it's to add something more to what we're doing now. In the long term, of course, we hope that this discussion will lead to the conclusion that these countries, both India and China, will have some waste management systems which will mean that there will not be so much plastic in the rivers. But until then, unfortunately, it is also a Danish challenge that there is so much plastic in these rivers. So I would like to say that from the point of view of the Danish People's Party we think it has been a good debate here. We are very much looking forward to the work of the committee, and we really hope that the rapporteurs will be involved in trying to work seriously to produce a text, a report where we can find each other. It is absolutely not a mockery proposal or to go after the government or anything. We in the Danish People's Party believe that it is a huge challenge that so many tons of plastic end up in the oceans. It is not only a problem for the Chinese or for the Indians who deliver the plastic waste; it is also a problem for us because we also have the consequences. It is in the outermost regions, especially on the African coast, that the greatest challenges are facing us because of this. We are one of the richest countries in the world and we are a country which is technologically advanced. I am sure that if there is international cooperation, we in Denmark will be able to contribute actively and positively to the fact that we will pick up this plastic for a period of time, so that it does not end up as waste in the oceans and thereby pollute the nature that we all want to take care of. So thank you for some good contributions I look forward to the committee work that is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132551	There is one comment slashing questions from Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132553	I would also like to acknowledge that the Danish People's Party has moved in this area and that they have such a focus on the environment in particular. I am also looking forward to working on it in committee. However, I have a question of this kind, because it is a specific resolution that we are dealing with here, and we have specifically mentioned ten rivers that we are dealing with. So, in the committee work, will the Danish People's Party hold onto these ten specific rivers, or how am I supposed to understand that? I heard it a little as if we are now working on plastic pollution from these ten specific rivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132633	We didn't come up with ten rivers. It is, of course, because we have actually done quite a lot of preparatory work before we tabled this motion for a resolution. It comes from some research projects you did in 2018, where you had actually been looking at where all this plastic comes from, and that has been discovered. So it is, as I said in my speech up here, new knowledge for us, so that it is so concrete that one can say: the ten rivers contribute as much of the plastic as there is in the oceans of the world. That is why we believe quite clearly that if we really have to do something about the plastic waste in the oceans, this is, to put it bluntly, much more important than taxing a Danish plastic bag, how far the vast majority are collected, recycled and destroyed in a Danish incineration plant. To do something about the ten rivers is difficult, it is not easy, and that is also why, at the end of the proposal, we write that we want the take-up to take place in cooperation with other nations, so that this totally untenable situation of plastic in the oceans can be combated most effectively and as quickly as possible. We cannot do this alone, but we can go ahead and press for a good mandate from the Minister, which he can use when he sits in the right fora.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132740	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132741	Well, I'm kind of sorry to hear that, that is to say, you get so attached to one scientific study, because some of what our work is in here is, of course, to relate to the enormous amount of knowledge that we constantly get hugely much science, enormously much research. And some experience here must also be that it is rare for a study to be used as a basis for a whole policy area. That is why I hope that the Danish People's Party will, of course, be a little teased and would like to discuss when we come to the committee, plastic in the oceans in general and plastic in developing countries in general. Let us see how we can best reduce the quantity there, among other things. also in view of the fact that there are NGOs pointing out that this study is not entirely correct and that the results of the study cannot be interpreted as such. So I hope, as I have said, that the Danish People's Party will be somewhat concerned when we have to get it back in the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132848-2	I just want to say that it's not one studio that's the reason for this. In fact, Aalborg University has also been involved. What you disagree about is how large the quantities are. There is no disagreement at all about the fact that most of the plastic comes from the ten rivers that is the conclusion. Then there's a discussion about how many tons it is. It is perfectly agreed that if you make a collection from these rivers with the best possible technology known today, you will reduce the influx of plastic to the oceans by 45%. That is something we agree on. I think that if we now have the knowledge that the majority of the plastic comes from ten rivers, why not start with what we know, instead of saying that what we know we will not use, now we must invent something new? We would like to work with the knowledge that is available.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132930	Thank you, sir. René Christensen as rapporteur for the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I therefore propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191107132952	Members of the Folketing Morten Messerschmidt and Mr. Peter Skaarup has informed me that they want to take Question No. F 6 on the special agreement on Europol back. The question has therefore been dropped. There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 12 November 2019 at 10:00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
