ParlaMint-DK_20190118100007	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 80 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the launching of an investigation work which highlights the possibilities for designing and implementing an electronic crown). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter: According to the Prime Minister's recommendation, Royal Resolution of 11 January 2019 has determined that the responsibility for applying for party support for 2019 from the Liberal Alliance is transferred from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Interior to the Minister of Justice. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 11 January 2019 provides that the responsibility for the application for party support for 2019 from the Liberal Alliance, cf. Paragraph 2 of the Party Support Act shall be transferred from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Interior to the Minister of Justice, since the ability of the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of the Interior to deal with the matter may be called into question. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100114	We need a little quiet before we start the debate. The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100134	Thank you, President. The proposal we are debating today is one of the things I would call a bit of a mixed country trade. Firstly, it is proposed that the functions of the Travel Map and the Travel Plan be combined into a single digital mobile service. The new company will initially be called something as inventive as the Travel Map and the Travel Plan A/S. It will be a joint limited company with a joint board of directors, and the aim is to create a simple digital platform in which the Danes can plan their trips from door to door in the future and at the same time buy a ticket for the entire journey, even if the journey takes place with several different means of transport. The draft law therefore also allows a third party to sell tickets to the transport companies by requiring the transport companies to make tickets available for resale. In the social democracy we think that there is great potential in creating a strong digital platform for public transport in Denmark. We believe that it would be beneficial for passengers to make it more attractive to use public transport, and that is why we are, from the outset, positive about this element. However, we in the Social Democratic Party are concerned about what this will cost and who will pay. At first sight, we are not interested in printing a bill to the transport companies, which could lead to a deterioration in public traffic. Therefore, in the committee work, we will focus on how big this bill is and how it should be paid. As I said, we need an assurance that the quality of public transport in the short term will not be compromised. The second essential element of the bill relates to long-distance buses. The bill gives municipalities the opportunity to establish long-distance bus terminals, in which the municipalities will also be able to outsource the operation of the long-distance bus terminals. We in the Social Democratic Party see no problem with that. The bill simplifies the rules for long-distance buses at the same time, so that a distance can be operated by long-distance buses as soon as the distance is longer than 75 km. This means, in concrete terms, that you will be able to drive a long-distance bus between, for example. Aalborg and Aarhus. The distance buses have a very good grasp of the young audience in particular, as it is considerably cheaper than taking the train, and it is a growing market. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is a strength that everyone can afford to get around the country. That's what I'm talking about. At the same time, however, it is important for companies competing for passengers to compete on equal terms. We therefore believe that this bill should also ensure free and fair competition in the transport market. In concrete terms, remote buses must at the same time, of course, pay VAT and secure passenger rights and ensure that employees in the industry work on proper pay and working conditions. We are not interested in the long-distance buses competing with established transport companies because they do not have the same obligations in relation to ensuring good infrastructure in Denmark as the established transport companies have on the companies that ensure that you can also travel at times and on routes where it is not profitable for the transport company. That is why it is also essential for us to ensure that the proposal also ensures that there is competition on equal terms. Against this background, we in the Social Democratic Party are looking forward to the work of the committee and, as I said, we have some reservations about this proposal which we need to clarify before we can state whether or not we want to vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100500	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100505	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just have one question on the last point mentioned by the rapporteur, namely on long-distance buses. After all, a large number of the answers to the hearings express a great deal of concern, as do you in the Social Democratic Party. Would the Social Democrats be interested in looking at picking out that point if we do not get to some construction that we all believe is useful for public transport throughout the country or where you stand at present.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100540	I think it might be too early to take a position on this at the present time. I think it should be a consideration that we must take in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100550	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100558	Aggregation of Travel Maps A/S and Travel Plan A/S is a very good idea in the Danish People's Party. It is always good to make it easier and more flexible to travel with public transport. I would just like to remind the Minister that there is still a segment of older citizens who may not be as digitally founded as this target group that the Minister is aiming for. I would just like to recommend that we remember this, so that we also have access to a physical ticket in the hands of our older citizens. Otherwise, of course, digitization is the future. There is no doubt about that. And by putting these two bodies together, you save, if nothing else, a board of directors and a director, and that money can be spent so appropriately to ensure that paper tickets are still available. The second part of the proposal on long-distance buses we also support in the Danish People's Party. The distance criterion of 75 km provides an opportunity for us to get a little further into the country with long-distance bus routes. This, of course, also gives rise to competition, but I believe that it is an unjustified fear in the regions and in the transport companies, because we must remember that for these buses there must therefore be 75 km between stops, so it is not really a scheduled car that we are sending out. But competition is always good. It may cause public transport to get up a bit in relation to pricing. I think it was the Social Democrat rapporteur who mentioned that using the buses is a good and cheap way of travel. So we support that. We also support the part of the proposal which places a little restriction on social rebates, so that companies with all sorts of weird corporate structures and milking the fund for social discounts cannot be operated simply. Now you increase the trips from four to five weekly double trips, and that, of course, makes us hopefully get the stumped tubs out of the industry. So we can warmly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100814	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100820	Competition is good, says Mr. Kim Christiansen. We are not going to have a longer debate on that now. But competition is only good if it is fair and equal. Mr. Kim Christiansen really is that the competition now being put on public, public transport is fair and equal, since you do not make any kind of demands on the remote buses other than that they have to drive at least 75 km away which, of course, extends their field of operation, if I may call it that, quite significantly? A very, very simple request is made for one double trip 5 days a week. And it is clear that they will be driven when there are passengers to ride with. There are quite different requirements for train traffic, be it DSB or Arriva, and regional bus traffic, or even bus traffic operated by public authorities, by regions and municipalities. They have to drive once an hour, they have to drive at all times of the day, they have to drive in all parts of the country, including where there are no passengers. This is not a fair and equal competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118100932	In order to start with the latter, it is likely that you can gradually question whether you should drive in all parts of the country. After all, there has been a rainfall of abandoned bus routes, most recently in the Central Denmark Region. In relation to competition, it can be said that DSB will, after all, receive 4 billion. kr. a year to drive trains, and buses also receive a billion dollars, while here we have private operators competing on their own account. So compared to fair competition, I actually think DSB and the regional transport companies have a small head start.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101012	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101014	But isn't it really the case that DSB and Arriva could easily run with huge profits if they could just drive two or three flights in the morning, two or three flights the opposite way in the afternoon and then maybe one small flight in between, so they drive where there are serious passengers, and don't have to drive at least once an hour? In many places it's much more • and also drive in those parts of the country where there aren't very many passengers. Then I think I could make DSB make profits, and then I could also make a bus company make profits, i.e. if I was sure that I could always fill it up with passengers and only have to take one double trip a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101055	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101057	Now, of course, DSB has made profits in recent years. And yes, there's a public subsidy, sir. Henning Hyllested, because we can then also demand a higher frequency and better service for citizens, and that is also why you stop as many places as you do. This is where you stop every 75 km. So this is another service offered by the remote buses. I think we should be careful not to compare them with a regional or municipal bus service. They have a different obligation to citizens, both in relation to the number of trips, how often you have to drive and how long you have to drive 24 hours a day. But this is also paid for by the Danish Treasury; far-distance bus traffic does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101139	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101158	The bill we are discussing today must ensure better conditions for passengers and private solutions for public transport. The current rules favour driving to and from Copenhagen because of the high distance requirements, and therefore it is proposed to lower the distance requirements to a minimum of 75 km, so that more journeys and journeys can be made over shorter distances, which will allow more passengers to take the long-distance bus, also in the outermost regions. On the other hand, private bus companies must undertake to operate more flights on their routes, and it is therefore proposed that at least one daily double trip be required five times a week instead of the current requirement for four weekly departures. This removes the current requirement for long-distance buses to cross two transport company boundaries across Storebælt, which will mean greater mobility and freedom of choice for the individual user. In addition, it is proposed to combine Travel Maps A/S and Travel Plan A/S under a company with a joint board, allowing users to plan, book and pay their travels in one single app. In the new digitalisation effort, we would also like to see a more active cooperation with the business community so that users can obtain better travel offers. Therefore, it is proposed that public transport companies make their selected transport data available to business and that resale through third parties is made possible. It will support new markets in the field of mobility, and it will more closely link private businesses on the cross-country travel plan. The bill should also ensure that public transport companies have the same basic passenger rights so that they are easy to understand and apply across the country, while private long-distance bus operators are not subject to the same requirements. With that said, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101344	Thank you. Then there were a few comments. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101349	I just made it. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, it is clear from the comments on the draft law that this will mean 580,000 more travellers in the long-distance buses; it is clear that with the much, much less lenient demands now being made, there will of course be more travellers in the long-distance buses. 290,000 are new travellers, which means that the remaining 250,000, i.e. the second half, are supposed to come from some cars too; I think we are counting on 1%. or something like that, so to speak, gets ripped out of public transport. It must, of course, cause problems for the economy, and that is also what the Danish Regions and the transport companies are calling attention to. This means, of course, that you are forced to make savings on the bus routes you already have. And what are the bus routes you typically want to hit? It's the bus routes in the outermost regions, sir. Hans Christian Schmid. We have seen this now in the Region of Central Jutland and in the Region of Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101459	Well, everyone agrees with that. Well, I think everyone has said this all the time, namely that it is clear that if you make it very attractive, and that is what you are doing, sir. Henning Hyllested constantly refers to, and takes the driving where there are very many people, but then it will of course affect those who have to give up passengers. I think the best example we know is the S-trains. The S-traines have so many passengers that they can actually drive without subsidies from the state, and that is also why some have offered me and also offered me when I was Minister of Transport that they wanted to run the S-track. Yeah, I guess I can figure that out. Nor do you need to have a very large and complex exam to make it run around. Well, that's where the passengers are. So, yes, of course it affects it, but I think everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101546	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101548	I'm just wondering, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, because now we have such a little common agenda around the outermost regions. The Left, together with the Danish People's Party, has made a huge effort to strengthen the outermost regions of Denmark in balance, we know the whole of the butter. If, as has been pointed out by transport companies, regions and so on, this will undoubtedly affect the outermost regions and the public transport services in the outermost regions, then I simply do not understand why the Left is jumping on that galley and putting this kind of traffic in the outermost regions on what I call unfair competition from some long-distance buses, where there are hardly any demands on their driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101635	Well, well, I certainly don't want to be sitting on me, that I haven't said straight ahead, that of course there is a difference between whether you are required to drive some routes where there aren't many passengers, or whether you can drive there where there are many passengers. Well, I guess that's gonna be hard to find someone who disagrees. But I just do not see the two things being linked here, because this is isolated something where we look at consumers' free choice, consumers' ability to make their own choices, whether they want to drive a bus or they want to drive a train. If there are some things about rural policy, and I do not wish to deny that there can be, then it has to be dealt with elsewhere. I mean, this is a matter of looking at transport alone. However, I will not rule out the fact that there are some who have to try to look at something in relation to the influence that will be on other parts of our policy areas, but that must be taken on that occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101727	Thank you. Will Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen have a brief comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101737	Yes, thank you. I have a comment to make. I have to say that I have some of the same concerns that Enhedslisten has in relation to a Denmark in balance with which the Left is battling. Now the rapporteur concludes by saying that it must be dealt with elsewhere if it presents some shifts and challenges in rural policy. I actually thought that the government stood up for an overall assessment and that legislative proposals should not adversely affect the outermost regions, but now the rapporteur says that this has to be looked at elsewhere. Is it not true that it is part of your government base that you will assess all legislative proposals and ensure that they do not adversely affect the outermost regions, or have I misunderstood your government basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101829	Please speak in the third person. It's happened a few times you just have to remember it. Roger Courage Matthisen Yes). Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101833	Well, look, we have a lot of proposals that affect different parts of the country, sometimes the big cities, sometimes rural areas. It's just going into the legislative programme, and then you can see how it affects. And it is logical that if you think that something is inappropriate then you have to solve it. You can figure out that it must of course have an impact when you get to drive like this, but you could also look at the benefits and say that it was good for the individual user to have that choice. But it is true that, for example, if it does. It will affect the outermost regions, that's where you're going to deal with it. This is among other things. in the case of DSB's contract, which currently provides some 4 billion. kr. In grants or payments you can call it what you want to have the level of service you have. And that's what you have to look at. So what I'm saying is quite correct: you handle each thing in your place. Then you can have the view of the alternative and say: we want to deal with it all at once. Yeah, well, it's not gonna get any more right from that. It's just a point of view, and that's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101940	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118101941	I mean, what I am asking for is some wise solutions so that we do not go into this on an incompletely enlightened basis. There are many who say that there is a lack of qualified studies on commuters' travel patterns, etc. etc., which in turn has a negative impact. So I am just asking the rapporteur's party and the government to be thorough before we take any initiatives that would distort a development that I really thought we all agreed should not lead to a reduction in transport provision in the outermost regions, in our rural areas, and should not lead to disadvantages for those of our fellow citizens who do not live centrally in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102022	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102023	Well, I don't have all the numbers I've had before today. We have to ask questions about this elsewhere, where we can answer what is involved in studies. I am merely saying that this proposal, in isolation, offers users greater opportunities to choose a cheaper journey; I think that is what Mr. Henning Hyllested agreed with him, so he thought it was a little troubling, but he agreed that this is the way it is. If, then, the lack of revenue is what it ends up with, means that DSB, the public train traffic, or whatever it may be, is affected in a different way, then you have to deal with it there and say: Look, something has happened; we need to have a discussion about that. That's what you usually do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102105	Thank you. And then it's sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102109	Thank you. I am really pleased that the rapporteur acknowledges the concern that I expressed in my rapporteur's speech. Now we are in the middle of a discussion on how to actually solve some of these things, and I think I would like to make a little start on that. Because what I hear the rapporteur say is that if there is a problem somewhere else, then we have to look at it. That is precisely what I think the work of the committee should be about. I would like to hear from the rapporteur now whether the rapporteur has thought of some solutions. Now the rapporteur mentions something about DSB's contract. We also had a discussion, as Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions, in relation to how it is going to go with the buses and bus traffic around in the outermost parts of the country. Does the rapporteur have any other suggestions on how to look into solutions to compensate for the loss of revenue that will occur when the buses are driven?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102205	In other words, I think the questioner certainly has a qualified point of view when he says that we have to look at it here in committee. I think you just have to admit that this is complicated. Not many studies have been carried out on what, in a high degree of detail, shows what will happen if you do different things. I believe that this proposal has been designed to open up the possibility of driving cheaper as well. I still think there are a lot of people who think there's a big difference between driving a bus and driving a train. Well, many would rather drive by train because you think it's more comfortable. Of course, it's a matter of taste, but I think so. That is why I think it is really true that we are working on it in committee. And that is why I will refrain from standing here today and making offers from the platform, simply because I believe that it will not be qualified enough. You have to go inside and see what this affects. After all, we could all hope that it caused more people to use public transport. Then it could be a win-win situation. But I can't guess that now. It would be just as unqualified as if I started guessing on the other. So I understand the question put by the questioner. It's very serious. I'm just not able to focus enough on it to say that I know the answers to it, because I don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102318	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102320	No, but I have to exorcise a little, because that is what determines whether this is a proposal that we can support in the end. That's why we have to figure out how far we can get in this. One of the options that might be available is that, when we submit a report, we are able to make a joint contribution to the report which can deal with the parts that the legislative proposal itself cannot. I could ask that now, that is, if we can see that there are some concerns about rural areas and peripheral areas that will be a consequence of this legislation, then whether the rapporteur would be prepared to submit a joint report that can take account of that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102359	So, I recognise that the questioner is, of course, entitled to ask me that question, and I can understand it too, because that is serious enough. On the other hand, I am sure that the questioner will also understand that I am not going to start talking now about how the contribution of the report will be made. Because I can easily read what is the discussion here. I mean, it's the question of whether you want to join or not. And I think it should depend on serious work in committee. But I recognise that there are some problems, and we must deal with them together.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102428	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102440	Thank you. It probably doesn't surprise anyone that Enhedslisten can't support this bill, L 129. In fact, the draft law involves one of the biggest changes in public passenger transport in recent times, as far as we can see, and shifts much of the weight from public to private transport. In our view, the legislative proposal is an attack on rail-borne public transport, and it comes primarily in the form of easing the distance requirements which are now being imposed on long-distance bus services and which must promote the market for long-distance buses at the expense of rail traffic. It can almost be said that there is no hiding in the draft law either. Arriva correctly writes in their hearing that the proposal places public transport at a disadvantage against competition from private long-distance buses, and they then highlight among other things. the fact that long-distance buses are free to choose pricing and driving in the few selected profitable periods where there are enough passengers, typically during peak hours in the morning and in the afternoon, and this is, of course, contrary to the operators of public public transport, who have to comply with a fixed price structure traffic contract, together with the requirement to run at all times of the day, largely. In this context, we do not think that it is a particularly tighter requirement, even though it is pointed out in the consultation note that it is a tightening up of the requirements that one double trip should be made daily for five days a week. In addition, there are politically established passenger rights in public transport and the requirements of private bus operators in this respect are clearly more relaxed. So we don't think this bill is about fair competition. When the legislative proposal opens up the possibility for long-distance buses to operate in more direct competition with rail transport without being subject to the same requirements at the same time, it will mean less revenue in public public transport. And it appears, as I mentioned in one of my questions, that in the vicinity of 250,000 passengers, as Danske Regionser also points out, the long-distance buses will be deployed at the times when there are most passengers, and that is why it is likely, as I also mentioned in one of my questions to Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt, that the savings that will result from this will be on routes or flights with a weaker level of self-financing in terms of passenger revenues, and that is also what has happened with the savings that have already been made around the regions for the second time. This starvation of public transport simply cannot be supported by Enhedslisten. In this way, when the proposal is designed to promote road transport in the form of long-distance buses, it is at the same time in the environmentally wrong direction. This contrasts with the government's alleged ambitions in climate and air pollution areas. In this context, the Danish Railway Federation points out in their consultation answer that, in their view, the bill will be a social disaster, which means higher CO2 and at the same time gives me the opportunity to ask: what are the consequences of the proposal for particulate pollution and CO2? Yes, it will certainly be cheaper, and that is, of course, a good thing, but as I said, it is not fair and fair competition because the buses can drive when there are passengers, so DSB, Arriva and the regional and municipal bus routes cannot. And, as Arriva also points out, all public operators are bound by political requirements for passenger rights, which include, for example, the requirement of a minimum number of departures, timely information and replacement services, if there can be no driving, for example. trains. On the other hand, distance buses are not subject to the same level of obligations, and this raises another question of passengers' rights in the case of train journeys compared to long-distance journeys. There are some good tactics in the bill, and I am thinking in particular of the intention to support the development of better digital solutions that promote mobility across public and private transport supply. It is obvious that there is room here for improvement, which will benefit passengers in public transport, and it is obvious that North Jutland with their Plustur and MinTravel Plan etc. serves as a really, really good example. It just doesn't in any way compensate for the bad parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102943	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118102948	Thank you. I can't help wondering sometimes. It is a little bit about the fact that the argument is often matched by whether you are for or against something, because on other occasions Mr. Henning Hyllested, who is warmly pleading that we should have more public transport, because then we will get someone to put the car down. Now it is suddenly a problem that there will be some more bus departures, because that will increase the strain dramatically. If every bus can replace 50 passenger cars, is that a good situation, too, for Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103022	You could say that. Now, in fact, there is a reference in the comments that it is expected that of the many more travellers who enter the distance buses, 1% will come. from the transfer from cars. The rest, and I have mentioned a figure of about 250 000, is therefore being pulled out of the public transport service already provided by the public authorities, i.e. in the form of DSB, Arriva and regional and municipal buses. So in this way it is true that it is not the cars as such that you make a dent in this, it is primarily public public transport that has to bleed here, and it has some financial consequences for how much subsidies there can be in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103119	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103133	Thank you. This is a good bill, which can actually bear the title of due diligence. It has often been an annoyance that different areas required different solutions. In other words, as a user, as a traveller, we ourselves had to make sure that we had a ticket for one and another, and there was no connection. That is why the cooperation on the itinerary and travel map is now gathering and that it will actually be possible to plan and pay for your trip in a single app, a gain. It is future-proof, and we will come in unhelpful afterwards if we do not put it in place. That is why it is absolutely right to get there. Then there are a number of other elements that have been mentioned and some have concerns, others are enthusiastic. The fact that long-distance buses have become the success they have been so far is clear. It is a free choice for people that they choose that mode of transport, which is why we must of course offer it as well as possible. That is why the rules of distance are now changing in the right direction. So with the few comments we can support the bill. And I would also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103254	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103308	Thank you. After all, the draft law has been examined very well by the previous rapporteurs. The last rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance actually uses a very fine concept of due diligence in terms of our mobility in rural areas or throughout the country for that matter. But there are also a number of concerns, as Mr. Henning Hyllested and Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen-Andersen has already expressed and things that I have questioned. Once again, I think we are faced with some legislation in which we get some consultation answers that clearly state that there are not enough analyses done until we roll it out, and that worries me. If we don't do it thoroughly enough, we'll have a bill every time. Then it is mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left that we will have to look at whether or not we should turn the subsidies for public transport on offer. I just doubt it's something you saw, too, and now I'm looking down at the minister, and I'm willing to commit to it, and that's also something we're complying with afterwards. Otherwise, it is just a competition ban for the private up against public transport, and I find that problematic when we talk about a Denmark in balance where we want to be able to live and live anywhere in the country. So I am not going to mention all the things that have been mentioned in the past, but just look forward to the committee reading, and that is why the alternative cannot now say either for or against. We await and see what happens to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103459	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103517	Thank you. The Radical Left is delighted with the proposal to combine the travel card and the itinerary contained in this bill. We are pleased that the Danes will now be able to book a combined journey of e.g. bus and train and metro in one app and one place. It will make life a little easier and it will promote public transport. On the other hand, we are opposed to the proposal that private people will be able to put buses on trips over 75 km with only one departure five days a week. It is unfair competition in relation to the tax-paid trains and buses where you do not have that freedom. DSB and Arriva etc. could also run much cheaper if they could choose routes themselves and only run once a day five of the week's days. With this, there is a risk of weakening the economy of the public offerings, which then need more tax dollars to run around. But it will happen on the back of the hole when it has happened. We therefore want this bill to be split up so that we can vote in favour of the part we are in favour of and against the part we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103619	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103621	Thank you. That is precisely the question I put to the Social Democrats earlier today, i.e. whether they are interested in dividing it up, and they will look at it in committee. However, I would just like to say that the alternative clearly supports it, if it is an option, because this is clearly the most important element of isolation in the light of all the consultation responses that have been received. So thank you for letting the Radicals make that announcement as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103644	Thank you. I don't know if there's an answer to that. Rasmus Helveg Petersen There was no answer but thank you). That's what I thought. Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118103657	It may sound tempting to reduce the distance requirement to 75 km, and there is the general phrase here that competition is good if you have a very short-term economic perspective alone. But we have to decide what we want with public transport at all. And it is clear that a company that can pick the most mature and delicious fruits by driving selected popular routes can, of course, manage. But it will also have just as natural consequences elsewhere. Danske Regioner writes that the Ministry of Transport is underestimating the economic impact on regional bus traffic, because with the new distance requirement, long-distance buses will also be able to operate regional bus traffic, including commuter traffic. The Ministry of Transport states that the proposed change to the distance requirement for long-distance buses will have marginal consequences for commuters' travel patterns. When you write it, it's like you forget that 240,000 people commute over 50 km every day. And some of these people want to switch to long-distance buses, and then the money will be lacking elsewhere, namely at DSB and regional bus services. Thus, less public traffic with fewer routes, higher prices or higher costs to the state, the municipalities and the regions. Arriva writes in the hearing answer: "But in other words, with the proposal, the government risks that the passenger base in the outermost areas where public transport is not already profitable in itself. This will mean that the transport companies will lose fare revenue more and will have more difficulty in maintaining the politically specific service. With fewer passenger revenues to the transport companies, they will have more difficulty in financing existing bus and train departures. That is logic, and it is therefore absolutely marvellous that the Ministry of Transport can write anything else. Arriva also refers to the external analysis agency, which has carried out the analyses for the Danish Road Traffic Authority, which concludes:... that a mileage requirement of 75 km would increase the number of long-distance bus journeys by up to 38%. equivalent to 560,000 extra long-distance bus passengers per year. Approx. 300,000 passengers are expected to be new travellers while approx. 260,000 travellers are expected to come from other public transport. ▪ Therefore, the bill puts us before a choice: will we make life harder for rail and regional bus routes? No, says SF. However, we do think that there is a very good idea in promoting common digital opportunities to make private and public transport work together. That's how good it gets out of the bill. We support that part. And if we could divide up the bill, we would obviously vote for that part and against the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104001	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative, has one comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104005	Yeah, thanks for that. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The alternative supports if the bill can be split up. If it cannot be split up, where does the SF stand in relation to the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104019	Completely, as I concluded: if we divide it up, we will vote in favour of that part and then we will vote against the other. Together, we will vote against it if it is not divided up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104030	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104040	Thank you. And first of all, thank you for the most positive reception of the bill. A coherent and well-developed transport system is essential for the mobility of society. Digital development and the emergence of private public transport services give travellers more choice and it strengthens mobility across the country. This development must be supported and promoted, and it must be ensured that the framework is up-to-date. The purpose of this bill is therefore to update and modernise the conditions for passenger-facing transport and mobility offers. The digital possibilities are there, the technology is ready. Nevertheless, it is not yet possible in Denmark to plan and pay for your trip in one app if you take several modes of transport. That, despite the fact that we already have a good digital starting point with the itinerary and with the travel map. The potential of development is now hampered by some limiting factors in the organisation of the public transport sector. It is both the travelers and the community to blame. That is why the draft law is also intended to deal with those restrictions. The bill will ensure the future of the travel plan and travel map and the cooperation on them will be brought together in one company. It should target work towards bringing the functions together in one digital mobility service. At the same time, the aim is for more private transport services to be included in the common travel plan and travel map system. Private offers fill the gaps in traditional public transport on the total journey from door to door. They therefore play an important role in creating a more coherent mobility system. As you know, digital development is a strong move, but we must ensure that Denmark follows. Here, too, the market plays a central role as the driving force for innovation and further development. The draft law therefore also creates a breeding ground for independent private mobility services. This is done by making transport data more open to public transport operators and making selected tickets available for resale through third parties. It allows a private market for mobility services and can contribute to increased sales of tickets for public transport. Another aim of the bill is to simplify and lower distance requirements for long-distance bus services. The remote bus is a flexible and inexpensive addition to public public transport. In particular, students, pensioners and families with children take advantage of the long-distance bus, for example. is going home to visit the family, at music festival or something quite third around the country. The bill meets the Danes' high demand for a good, reliable and affordable transport option. Today, a long-distance bus must cross up to two transport company boundaries to be legal. With this bill, a long-distance bus will be able to drive down to 75 km between passengers' on and off. This will strengthen the overall mobility opportunities in Denmark, not least regionally and in outlying areas, as long-distance buses will be able to reach far more destinations and passengers than they are today. The proposal is expected to create approx. 600,000 new long-distance bus passengers, about half of whom will be brand new travellers. At the same time, the fixed mileage requirement of 75 km will standardise the requirements across the country and thus eliminate the different distance requirements that exist today. Let me give you an example: today it is the case that a long-distance bus that travels from Copenhagen in Movia's area will only cross a traffic company border, while a long-distance bus from Esbjerg in the South traffic area will cross two. This means that a long-distance bus route from Copenhagen to Odense is legal, while a long-distance bus route from Odense to Esbjerg is illegal. This, despite the fact that the length of the routes is good and well the same. Another drawback of the applicable distance rules is that a long-distance bus on the route from Copenhagen to Aalborg is not allowed to take passengers on the road from Aarhus to Aalborg, even if the long-distance bus drops off some of its passengers in Aarhus and therefore now has vacant seats. The remote bus, which is still running, must not use its available capacity on its further trip to Aalborg. This is poor capacity utilisation, and the problem will be resolved by this bill. At the same time, the bill increases the frequency requirement for the remote buses. In this way, the Danes can continue to count on a good level of operation when travelling by long-distance bus. All in all, the proposal will strengthen the ability of long-distance buses to provide good, cheap and reliable mobility for the benefit of both national and regional traffic throughout the country. In addition, the proposal aims to ensure that regional transport companies offer passengers the same fundamental rights. Passengers using local and regional bus services have different rights depending on the regional transport company they travel with. It is not fair to bus passengers that it is so difficult to find out what the rights are. The proposal therefore gives you the same rights as a bus passenger in public transport, regardless of where you travel and where you travel. I look forward to the committee reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104653	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104701	I would like to know whether there has been any consideration in the Ministry of Transport. There is a general consensus that this is going to mean a lack of revenue for DSB and Arriva. The size can be discussed, and I certainly doubt some of the calculations made with regard to regional bus services under the transport companies and the regions. There's already been a cut in the DSB contract. The government has already saved on the DSB contract. I think it is just over 300 million. kr. a year, but what will this result from further consequences? DSB will, of course, lack revenue from the revenue-generating routes to cover those routes where there are not so many passengers. Has it been considered whether Arriva will make up for a claim for compensation? Because it has to be said that the conditions for the Arrival Agreement are changing dramatically when suddenly 250,000 passengers are plucked out of public transport, albeit throughout the country and probably not all of them at Arriva, but some also become Arriva's passengers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104818	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104820	I think that Enhedslisten is extremely concerned about those who already have a means of transport, and incredibly little about the half of the 600,000 new passengers for the long-distance buses, who today do not feel that they have a means of transport, but who get it by means of extended opportunities for long-distance buses. It is people who have low incomes who suddenly get an opportunity to transport themselves on family visits, to tourist experiences etc., who today do not have the opportunity because they cannot afford it. And Enhedslisten just doesn't care. Instead, the unit list is concerned that DSB loses a ticket income in the region of 23 million. kr., which is less than 1%. of DSB's ticket revenue because DSB is more important for Enhedslisten than the Danes who use the transport options and who have new transport options. Enhedslisten is an institutional party. The Enhedslisten is concerned with state institutions. That's the most important thing. Citizens are less important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118104924	No, sir. Minister of Transport. It is because we are really concerned that this will not lead to a series of deteriorations in existing public public transport, and neither DSB nor Arriva are we concerned about this. We are concerned that if we have to cut back on existing public transport provision, this will mean deterioration. I have mentioned this in my rapporteur's speech. The outermost regions are in danger of being scalded on this proposal. So that's what worries us. It can only have consequences. The consultation answers from Arriva, from the regions and from the transport companies clearly state that this means that they have to save elsewhere and that they have to cut back on the transport services they have. There it is that I also ask, because I did not get an answer to it: Have you considered, for example, whether Arriva? Will there be a demand for compensation, because the conditions for their conclusion of contracts change significantly with the cut-off that will be done in Arriva's passenger base as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105028	With this proposal, the outermost regions will have additional opportunities for transport which the outermost regions do not have today, namely through private long-distance bus routes. The income loss of DSB is expected to be 23 million. kr. The surplus on DSB's financial statements in 2017 was almost 300 million. kr. DSB made a profit of almost 300 million. kr. The result of this proposal is a loss in ticket revenues for DSB of 23 million. kr. The view that Enhedslisten stands for today is simply entirely on the moon. It is about protecting everything in the state and against everything in private, because you want everything to be state-owned and that there should be nothing private, and then you don't care about the Enhedslisten that those who have to travel lose on this approach to it, namely that everything private is bad and everything state is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105124	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105128	Thank you. Like the Minister in his speech, we actually believe that there are a great many good elements in this proposal, including to ensure better transport opportunities for a great many people in this country. But I have also expressed some concerns. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister acknowledges the concern I am taking in two parts here; it may be that I can reach one in one question and the other in the other • that has been raised in connection with the digitisation and what it will cost. Now we can see what other state IT programs have come to cost. At any rate, we have a concern that, if it becomes extremely expensive, it will actually have an impact on the price that the consumer will have to pay out there for his fine journey from his door to his end-station, so that that price is affected too much by this digitisation being too expensive. Does the Minister share that concern and will the Minister help to see how we ensure that this does not affect fares?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105230	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105231	It is, of course, a relevant concern whether this is going to cost too much compared to the benefit it gives you. However, I think that the concern is wrong. We have seen in Sweden that similar reforms have led to an increase in ticket revenues of 25%. If only we get an increase in ticket revenue in Denmark of 5%, it will generate an increase in ticket revenue of nearly 0.5 billion. kr. It can finance this little exercise. So I believe that this will make public transport, mostly public but also private public transport, so attractive that we will have increased ticket revenues, which will be able to adequately finance the increased cost of these digital solutions, which will thus give users a better experience and easier access to public transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105326	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105328	Thank you. In relation to the second part of the draft law, which then deals with the distance buses, I had an excellent discussion with the rapporteur from the Left on the possible consequences of this. After all, the minister also says that people who live further out, i.e. on the outskirts of Denmark, will have better opportunities with the long-distance buses, and I accept that as such. But there are people who live beyond that. It cannot be said at this stage whether it will have any significance, that is, whether it will be the case that you have to cut down on local bus traffic or whatever it may be. So my question here is actually whether the Minister will recognise that there may be a problem and whether the Minister will also help to ensure that it will not affect those who live further out if the Minister can follow me, that is to say that we will ensure that they can still have good service, whether public or private, so that they also have proper service, even in the future, if this proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105420	Now it's a little hard to know how far out those who live even further out live. It is therefore also difficult to know whether it is really relevant to have a collective transport offer right out there, or whether we should instead make more use of it as one among other things. in Nordjylland make some flex traffic to ensure that you get from the outermost Denmark to the nearest bus station or the nearest train station. I can only note that for bus transport too, the loss of ticket revenue is expected to be less than 1%. of the ticket revenue you have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105459	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105502	Thank you for that, and also thanks to the Minister for one, I think, good motivation in relation to the bill. I think it's a little funny, because it's really the state that's going in and disrupting its own public transport. I do not know whether the Minister himself would accept that the Minister's own company would have a loss of 23 million. kr. on the basis of unfair conditions of competition due to disruption. But the question is that there are many of us here who want to support the positive measures, among others. this digital solution, and in relation to positive parliamentarianism, the minister can bring the whole parliament with him if he splits up the proposal. Couldn't it be interesting that we started working on some solutions where we gather as many parties as we can, and then you can still get your majority if you like, for the other half, that is, the one that deals with remote buses. Will the Minister consider dividing up the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105604	Thank you. And again, I would like to say that there is no direct indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105609	Of course I will consider that, but I would say that in my optics things are connected. This is about integrating private and public services • digital payment solutions and digital data solutions that can be shared across private and public players; sales of tickets across private and public players. And then it is also a question of giving private operators additional access to transport people where there is a customer base. Let me just mention once again that this is about nearly 300 000 people who today cannot afford to make the transport they want to make, but who have an opportunity, by increasing access for private long-distance buses to provide a service that they can afford. In other words, they cannot afford to use the means of transport available today. And if you vote against this proposal, you will vote against the fact that approx. 300 000 people can transport themselves to places where they want to transport themselves, because they want to be forced to make use of offers which, although public, are also more expensive than private long-distance buses and which, therefore, they cannot afford.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105717	Here you go, Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105719	In fact, I agree in part with the arguments put forward by the Minister of Transport, that is to say, we must provide for those who cannot afford to travel to Hanstholm from Copenhagen, just as we have talked about the fact that a train trip from Copenhagen costs more than it does to fly to Barcelona. I agree with you very much. Nevertheless, we must also ensure that we have public transport in balance. So I'm gonna ask you again. Now the Minister says the Minister will consider it. I hope then that the Minister will seriously consider that he can actually bring the whole parliament together. And then we will have to decide on the other half afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105758	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105758-2	As I said, I will consider this and I will explain my arguments further. It is actually the case that driving a bus is a cheaper transport technology than driving a train. There are many people who see the train as more comfortable and nice to drive than a bus, and therefore they choose it. But there are others for whom the fact that the bus is cheaper means that it opens up some opportunities for them to transport which the train does not open because it is too expensive for them. So when you say that people have to drive on the train, where there are trains, and are not allowed to drive on a private long-distance bus, you have pulled your own preferences for lane driving on people's heads with the result that they cannot afford to use the transport they want to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105845	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105905	The debate is open. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-AndersenAndersen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118105919	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, the legal framework of the company Sund and Bælt Holding A/S will be adjusted. The adjustments are made because there is a desire and a belief that the experience gained in Sund and Bælt can be used better and ensure even better operation. The draft law gives the current minister the opportunity to give Sund and Bælt preparatory tasks, such as: The proposal provides for the administration of environmental zones. The scheme may be considered. The bill also proposes to extend Sund and Bælt Partner A/S's field of competence. With the bill, the company will have the opportunity to sell and develop solutions such as: software services. The purpose of this is, inter alia, to: to make it visible that Sund and Bælt Partner A/S have competences in the areas that the market requires. Finally, the draft law extends the competences of the commercial companies in the group. These are Sund and Bælt Partner A/S, BroBizz Operator A/S and BroBizz A/S. Companies are now being given even better opportunities to cooperate with other actors in order to optimise their operations. If one is concerned that the proposal may have negative consequences for the economy of the non-commercial part of Sund and Bælt, it should be pointed out that the economy of the commercial part is kept separate from the non-commercial part. Social democracy basically believes that it makes sense for the knowledge and experience of Sund and Bælt to be used as much as possible and in the best possible way, and we believe that this bill supports this, which is why we also support the bill. We look forward to the further work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110100	There are no comments. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110110	We in the Danish People's Party also warmly support this proposal. It's a really good suggestion, that you make these legal changes in Sund and Bælt Holding A/S, among others. so that you can draw on the great knowledge that the company has gradually acquired, for example. in connection with the fact that we are about to collect payment, that is. road use tax, for foreign drivers, as we are due in 2019. Then this will give you an opportunity. Their experience with e.g. license plate scanners, which are rapidly moving to Storebælt rather than Brobizzen, are a technology that we will be able to benefit from in this context. It also makes sense to give Sund and Bælt this opportunity to sell out their experiences, capitalise their experiences. It makes great sense, since you have developed things and have a great deal of knowledge in this area. I also look forward to getting them involved even more in the forthcoming Kattegat study and draw on the good experiences that Sund and Bælt have with large construction projects after all. So we look forward to the committee reading and support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110231	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110243	With the bill that we have to deal with today, we legislate to adjust Sund and Bælt Holding A/S Group's legal framework so that the company's experience can be better exploited and optimized. Sund and the Bælt Group, after many years of experience in the guidance of users in the field of the collection and recovery of bridge charges and control, have achieved a high demand for their competences and data knowledge in the field. The high interest in the Group's competences and data knowledge is understandable, as they can contribute with new elevated qualities in the task solution for the demanding consultancy companies and infrastructure owners. We want to help open it up, and that is why we support the Group's legal framework being adjusted to support more appropriate business conduct. This involves the possibility for the group's commercial companies to conclude new cooperation agreements to optimise the operation of the companies and that Sund and Bælt Partner A/S, as part of their consultancy business, can develop and sell the services of their data to which the consultancy market can then access. In addition, it is proposed that Sund and the Bælt group should be able to prepare tasks for the regulation of road traffic in accordance with the decision of the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, so that the framework adjustment does not assign a specific task to the group, but only allows for preparatory activities necessary to prepare the group at a later stage for specific tasks by law. The draft law will therefore make the equipment and IT support of the holding group more efficient overall, so that it can serve other purposes. At the same time, the bill also allows for new and advanced advice and data for the benefit of outside actors in the industry, who can use it to optimise the quality and efficiency of their businesses in relation to the operation of large infrastructure installations. With that said, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110441	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110448	Enhedslisten is also positive about this bill. We think it is positive that the bill opens up testing and development of solutions to • with a fine word "period-based tolls," and in this context under the auspices of Sund and Bælt Holding A/S. There is no doubt that with a future phase-out of petrol and diesel vehicles, there is a need for a shift in transport charges, including probably a transition to charges based more on road use, the so-called road pricing. The Enhedslisten is also in favour of Sund and Bælt being able to develop and sell services related to the provision of advice on planning, preparation, financing and construction, as well as the operation and maintenance of infrastructure, and it is already very far off at Sund and Bælt. On the other hand, we are somewhat sceptical about the bill as regards Sund and Bælt being able to sell data to a commercial market. It doesn't necessarily have to be a problem, but it certainly depends on the form in which you sell those data. Some of the data you want to collect and accumulate in connection, for example, with: Road tolls can be of a person-sensitive nature and we do not think it is a good idea that they can just be sold and float around in a so-called commercial market. But they can also be given in the form of anonymised and larger lumps, or how to put it, and then we do not have a big problem with it. But we are actually looking forward to it, and that is precisely the problem we would like to see clarified in the context of the committee's examination of the proposal. But there is no doubt that we are in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110646	Thank you. Sir. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110657	Thank you. It should, of course, be a basic rule that these things should create opportunities and not restrictions. This bill is a good example of the creation of increased opportunities, and it is timely to say that there are some companies that need to be able to cooperate more easily in the good work they are already doing. That's pretty good, actually. Then I think that at the end of this Friday morning we should welcome the fact that there is broad support for this view, since even Enhedslisten has become positive about it. It's a lovely Friday, and the sun shines outside. With those words, I should like to welcome from the Conservative People's Party and say that they agree with what I have said now, certainly also in the praise to the Enhedslisten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110742	Thank you. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110748	Thank you. Well, then let me come up and ruin the good mood. No, actually, I don't. I think it is a very good idea that we should draw on the knowledge of the company, a good idea that we should take advantage of the competences they have built up and a good idea that, according to previous rapporteurs, we should also use due diligence in this area, in that we should of course harmonise our car markets and, above all, taxes. Thus, this is a building block for road pricing. In relation to data sharing, I hope that our GDPR legislation, etc. helps to ensure that there is no inappropriate division. So basically we are positive and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110840	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110850	Thank you. The Radical Left also agrees with the proposal. In short, it sounds wise to change the law so that Sund and Bælt can participate in e.g.. to make payment of places other than on users. The Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110900	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110908	Sund og Bælt is a good, sensible and well-functioning construction, and then there is no need to sit and break your head by inventing more deep plates and more hot water. It's a good idea to extend this structure to take on new tasks as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110922	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118110928	Thank you for that and thank you for your contributions. With this bill, we are making an adjustment to the legal framework for the companies of the Sund and Bælt Holding Group. The group is characterised by both containing public-law companies based on state-guaranteed loans, which primarily address major societal tasks, and commercial companies operating on the free market. It is important for the government that the framework of the companies is constantly adjusted so that the group can operate the companies effectively and keep up with developments. And then it is important for the government that the specific competences of the group be exploited as far as possible for the benefit of society, but without harming the free market. This bill proposes that Sund and Bælt Holding A/S should be able to initiate preparatory activities in order to be ready to carry out road traffic regulation tasks later on. There is a concrete potential for the experience, competences and IT systems of the Sund and Bælt Holding Group in relation to the user-funded fixed links to be used for other types of tasks. For example, it may be the collection and control of the tolls that the government and the Danish People's Party have decided to introduce from 2020. This draft law does not give the company a proper task, but merely allows it to prepare for this type of task to become part of their business. The tasks which may be assigned to the company will be assigned to it by other legislation following adoption by the Folketing. In addition, we adjust the framework for Sund and Bælt Partner A/S with the bill. It is proposed that the company should be able to sell services as part of its advisory activities. There will be, for example: be the unique data held by the group in relation to the operation and maintenance of the large fixed links and which the consultancy market is also asking for. Furthermore, it is proposed to allow the commercial companies of the Sund and Bælt Holding group to conclude cooperation agreements with other companies, authorities, etc. With this legal basis, the group's companies can make greater use of the competences already available on the market in order to operate and develop the companies more effectively. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118111155	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190118111209	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 22 January 2019. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
