ParlaMint-DK_20190319130057	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130059	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130118	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130144	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130216	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 23 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130324	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130342	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130407	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130426	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130454	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130516	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, 1 EL (by mistake), LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstained from voting 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130547	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130605	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130634	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? There is. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319130654	Yesterday, 18 March, we received the Minister's response to the criticism made by Professor of Criminal Law at the University of Copenhagen, Jørn Vestergaard, against the bill we are now dealing with third parties. And that is not exactly a limited criticism. It's actually a fundamental criticism of this bill. He writes that it will create a huge legal uncertainty and a risk of restraining the free, open and critical public debate. ▪ Against this background, the professor calls it worrying that a majority now represents the adoption of the Minister of Justice's bill. I would therefore also like to say that I find it a little disappointing to read the Minister's answer, which I simply do not think can be convincingly countered by the arguments which come from Jørn Vestergaard but which, on the contrary, repeat and highlight the problems that exist with this proposal. Here at the third reading we are left with the fundamental problem that we or you do not know exactly what we are criminalising, and the citizens know it even less. When the Minister of Justice's comment on Jørn Vestergaard's criticism is to sum up the purpose of the proposal, it is supposedly to make it clear that it is a criminal offence to help or enable a foreign intelligence service to operate within the territory of the Danish State by cooperating in engaging in influence activities in order to influence decision-making or general opinion formation. ▪ Note the words enable, collaborate, affect, to say the least, not very precise concepts. It is, in fact, very unclear, as unclear, as when the Minister of Justice in answer to Question No. 18 tries with a slightly more popular version, which reads: "In other words, it is the collaboration with foreign intelligence services and is it okay. to cooperate with a foreign intelligence service to influence opinion in Denmark if it is genuine. a major Danish television station, perhaps under the inspiration of a foreign intelligence service, who knows, brings a completely lying story that Russian aircraft have violated the air territory of a nearby country, is it allowed for a Danish citizen to make contact with the Russian embassy read: intelligence service and use the information provided by them to bring out the truth? Or, for example, when... the Danish Government, under direct inspiration from the intelligence services of a foreign country, systematically spread lies to the Danish public about Iraq's possession of weapons of mass destruction, is it allowed for Danish citizens to contact the embassy of a whole third country read: intelligence service to replace the false weights with some genuine ones? I admit that the government, in the answers they have given to the Folketing, is trying to give examples of when the law is not, but the proposal does not give a clear answer as to when the law will apply Therefore, the whole thing is in great uncertainty and the law will be primarily suitable for imposing increased self-censorship on the individual. Is there no problem with foreign influences? Yeah, well, there's porridge. There is a huge problem with foreign influence activities. It is certainly a problem, and it is certainly a major problem. That influence can have many forms, and it can have many expressions, and it can come from intelligence services in many different countries, both hostile and usually friendly. In this respect, I think it is clear that there is courage to receive money from foreign powers. But there is absolutely no need, in fact at least, to produce legislation that is as unclear as the one that has been presented. Jørn Vestergaard writes in his inquiry, and I quote: "It would be better to oppose foreign influence activities by means other than criminal law, including by allowing the truth value of questionable information to be tested in the public debate. This is why, above all, we are faced with the threat of massive armaments in the field of information; a huge build-up in the field of knowledge, for example. in relation to educational institutions, in relation to science; and a huge armament in relation to the media. And that is why there is a certain irony in the fact that this bill is being tabled at the same time as a media settlement has entered into force which, over a five-year period, is probably drawing up up up to 1 billion. kr. out of the public service media. Less serious information and more punishment on an unclear basis does not sound like a good cocktail. In conclusion, this draft law is the latest in a long series of special proposals to deal with a problem that has arisen and a problem that has often been correctly identified but which just does not do it properly. And that is why we will have negative One can say that if there is an acute problem, one can make a law, but with an automatic expiry date one can take up the discussion again and then one can choose to renew it or choose to change it. But that is not what we are talking about here. I mentioned that there were several examples. Another example, after all, is the passport law, the passport law, the purpose of which was to prevent people from going to Syria or Iraq to support Islamic extremism. And what is the passport law now used for? The passport law is used to take the passport from people who will go to Rojava and, with humanitarian aid, rebuild the Kurdish areas that have been subjected to the attacks of Islamic State. That is what the passport law is used for today. I have taken note of the fact that the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Nase Khader, has said that this law seems to hit the wrong ones. Without going into the specific case he says to Politiken on 5 March: "The point was not to hit anyone who had real intentions. When the law was made, it was to hit those who went down to be part of jihadist groups. ▪ To put it mildly, the Kurds who have fought the jihadist groups cannot be said to be. So the law has struck some wrong ones, and I hope that when we stand here in a year's time, some of those Members of Parliament, who will shortly vote for this proposal, will not have to admit that this law has also hit some wrong ones. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131503	Thank you. Then there is a new rapporteur, and that is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131510	It is absolutely crucial that we try to have a joint analysis of the problems and challenges that may be threatening to Denmark and in general in society. That is why, in the alternative, we have really tried to look at this bill curiously. We have been very sceptical from the start, and we thought at all, just like my fellow rapporteur, that there was a risk and a danger that we could influence our legitimate electoral actions at home by states that do not wish us well, but there was an attempt to solve the very real problem, and we would like to take part in that. We were just very unsure if this was the right tool. However, we have had a good dialogue in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and many sharp questions have been asked, among others. from the Danish People's Party, who helped to figure out what was up and down in this. We have actually been inclined to vote yellow, in other words neither for nor against, although we are not very much in favour of it, but sometimes in the area of legal policy we choose to do so if we agree with the intention, but do not think that the tools are the right ones and do not see that there is real improvement. We in the parliamentary group of the Alternative, after the most recent answers that have come, have decided to vote red on this, even though we have until very recently marked yellow at the time of the report. Nor should it be a secret that, as rapporteur, I have proposed that we should vote yellow, so that democracy also works in the parliamentary group of the Alternative. There was a majority today at our group meeting in favour of us simply voting red here, and there are many good arguments for that. However, I think it is important that, when we go through a matter like this, we also help to create confidence in our minister and in our governance in here and in our democratic processes, and there I think that the draft law has become much, much better than it was at first. Organizations have been listened to, it has been made clear that cooperation is needed, and I really have a very clear belief that both the Minister's intention and the implementation of the bill will not be to restrict freedom of expression. However, we are still focusing on the very strong voices that also say that there can therefore be incredibly great confusion and unnecessary imprecise debates and legal fights about how this law should be interpreted, and that is not necessary, because this was intended to be a precise legislative proposal. That is why we choose to vote red for it, but respect the intention. And thank you for your good committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131733	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131741	We shall vote on the final adoption of the bill. The vote is over. In favour of 63 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstention 23 (DF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131810	Here you go, Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319131831	Thank you so much. Every year, we miss billions of dollars in Denmark, billions that could have been spent on our common welfare, in our hospitals, which urgently need resources, in our day care centres, where there are thousands of educators missing, and in our care for the elderly, so that all elderly people are given dignified treatment in old age. We are losing billions because multinational companies are hiding money in tax havens in a way that avoids paying taxes. This mess has to be stopped. An important tool in the fight against tax havens is a blacklist of tax havens... a list that can be used to hang out the countries that cheat the community and which consumers, pension companies, municipalities and other public authorities can use to deselect the companies that use these tax havens. I think we all agree that it would be good if the European Union were to make an effective blacklist of tax havens. At least we think so in the Enhedslisten. The reality is that the European Union does not. The EU's blacklist is hollow as a sieve and completely inadequate. The criteria for being categorized as a tax haven are laughably flawed. For example, according to the EU, a country is not a tax haven, although it has a corporation tax rate of 0 per cent. The absurdly poor criteria mean that a number of countries, among others. some of the world's worst tax havens, now completely out of the EU's blacklist, have gone off the EU's watch list. This applies, for example, to Panama, Jersey and the Isle of Man. At the same time, tax havens in the EU have been exonerated in advance of being on the list because of the criteria. This means that tax havens such as Luxembourg, Ireland, Cyprus and Malta are not on the EU blacklist either. That is why we have proposed from Enhedslisten that Denmark take the lead and make a more ambitious blacklist, where all tax havens appear on the list. Other countries have already done so. The Netherlands has made their list, which is more comprehensive than the EU list. When the Enhedslisten's proposal, on which we will be voting shortly, was discussed for the first reading here in the Danish Parliament, the argument from the government and the Socialists was that a Danish blacklist would not be supported because it would be more effective if there were better EU blacklisting. I agree that it would be good to have an ambitious blacklist in the EU where all tax havens were on. The reality is that the EU list is completely ridiculous. We now have an updated list from the European Union. It was adopted last week by the EU's finance ministers, and it is deeply flawed. It exonerates a large number of tax havens. Since then, the Danish Finance Minister, both in the Parliament's Committee on Europe and in the face of Radio24syv, has opened the way for the government to support a national Danish blacklisting. Dear Government, if it is true that you would like to support a national Danish blacklist, I invite you to vote in favour of the Enhedslisten proposal, which we will be voting on shortly. There is nothing to prevent us from adopting a Danish blacklist of tax havens. The only thing that is needed is political will when we have to vote in a moment. I hope that the government, the Socialists and the Radicals have found the political will to take the lead in the fight against tax havens, when the buttons are being pressed, and that action will be taken behind the fine words about combating tax havens, as it sounded so beautifully a few years ago on 1 May by the Socialists: the battle against tax havens starts in Denmark. The battle against tax havens starts in Denmark, dear friends, when the buttons are pressed in a moment. Let us adopt an effective Danish blacklist, let us put an end to the mess that costs us billions of dollars a year. Dear friends, let's press the green button.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132312	Thank you. There are no comments. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132323	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. For the vote 42 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 63 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132354	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yeah. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132548	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs for the very positive reception given to the draft law. With the criminalisation of psychological violence, it will be quite clear in the future that mental violence is unacceptable in line with physical violence. It is important that, as a society, we send out a signal to those who are threatened with violence that they are not the ones who are wrong about it. They are victims, and the person who has subjected them to violence is violating. When I choose to speak today at second reading, this is because there has been a lot of debate that, with the criminalisation of psychological violence, we will make it a criminal offence for parents to ground their children. There I would like to make it quite clear that parents' general education of their children will of course not be covered by the provision. Psychic violence does not include situations where control is a natural part of the relationship of the parties, and therefore parents' education of their children will not, as a rule, be covered by the provision, even if, as part of their upbringing, they are grounded in order to show the child that it has gone too far. It is, of course, really a pity that this debate on ground ground ground has filled in the draft law here, because that is not what is at the heart of the matter at all. But there's a but. Parental behavior towards their children can be of such character or gravity that behaviour will constitute psychological violence, for example. where a child is subjected to frequent and prolonged ground arrests as part of a pattern of action, confinement or a regime in which the child is subjected to a series of violations suitable for breaking down the child over a period of time. So this is not about what we generally understand when grounded, but about the situations where parents use grounded to ignore and isolate the child and thereby break it down mentally. That is why I have asked the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to include in the committee's report a clarification of the draft law's comments on ground grounding, and I am pleased to note that that request has been followed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. I am very pleased that we will now end up with a law on the criminalisation of psychological violence, which we can all stand together on together, and it is a pity that there has just been this ripple on the surface, but it should have been done now with what is attached to the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132821	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132833	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132844	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132910	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yeah. Here you go, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319132942	Thank you so much. For the oldest members of this Things, they will know that in the past it was quite common to mobilise the defence, especially during the Cold War, etc. Then we have had a more peaceful period, and that is why the rules on it have been removed. In the new defence settlement, where we like to see the contour of another threat picture, we have agreed among the parties in the defence conciliation circle that we must look at how and how we can mobilise again when and if needed. We hope that will never happen, of course, but when we legislators have to make legislation, we have to deal with it. And that is why the Secretary of Defense has tabled this draft law, L 124, and the Defence Committee has dealt with it in a number of meetings. We have asked some questions and we have received good answers to them. In the Social Democratic Party we have made a small contribution to the report, because the system is such that in the future, if they have had 1 year of employment and if a situation arises according to these rules, we can say: we will need you, come in and work for us for up to 36 months. These are the rules that result from this. All those employed in the defense today will retain the rules that exist unless they adhere to the new rules. However, in the answers we have received, it is clear that the authority that lies in it applies only in extreme situations, in crisis and war, etc. Therefore, since we did this and agreed to it, there have been a number of discussions about how it is in relation to terrorism. Fortunately, this is something we have been virtually free of in Denmark, but we had a situation in 2015. That is why, between the second and third readings, I would like to ask a question about how it will be in a situation such as that of 2015, in relation to the authorisation given to the Minister. I look forward to getting a positive answer to it, that is, that it is not such a situation; because it is always a little compared with familiar situations, and that is at least something we know, even if we do not ever hope that it will be needed. But there's a list of how to deal with this, in terms of using the person you have there are reserve personnel who are the Home Guard etc. etc. We need me so badly now, we can't handle it ourselves anymore? I know that soldiers in relation to crisis and war are generally available, in other words, people want to help demonstrate this will of defense that we have talked so much about. So I do not think there are any problems. But we are dealing here with a new relationship that we hope we will not get into and then ask what it looks like in relation to mobilisation. We say yes to all these things, of course, but we hope that we can get an answer to the question before we have to vote on it at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133236	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There is no such thing, and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133251	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133316	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133328	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133351	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133449	The debate is open. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133518	Legislative proposals L 195 aim to simplify gender equality statements in municipalities, regions and the state, so that they become more relevant and contribute more to the promotion of gender equality. The draft law is also part of the public bureaucracy effort. It is the view of the Social Democratic Party that the equality statements are an important and useful tool for strengthening local and regional work on gender equality and thus also for achieving better service and quality for the benefit of citizens. But we also hear what is being said out there in several municipalities and regions, namely that the gender statements and work on them are sometimes perceived as unnecessarily bureaucratic, and we fear that this view is not exactly conducive to local work on gender equality. That is why we are also prepared to see what we can do to simplify and debureaucraticise the gender statements in the expectation that this will help to ensure that more municipalities and regions will work more professionally and targeted with gender equality policy. The proposal mentions a number of concrete measures on how to do this here, and we would like to discuss them all without prejudice with the government and with the rest of the parties of the Folketing. Because if there are low-hanging fruits out there, where we can cut back on the administration and bureaucracy without compromising on the content, those fruits must of course be picked. When we read the hearings from among others... The main organization of the trade union movement, we can see that there are also a number of concerns that we share in the social democracy with these consultative bodies. Firstly, we can be concerned about the change in the ranges from 2 to 3 years and may fear that it will maintain this ongoing focus on gender equality policy. Secondly, we can be concerned about the change from individual job descriptions to a rather more general distribution of management and staff respectively. We can fear that this may help to make the statement less useful. We also have doubts as to whether it is at all something that will reduce the administration. So will we make the administrative gain out of it, since we are at risk of compromising on what this can actually be used for afterwards? The third point of concern is the removal of the demand for a comprehensive report on the statements. We can fear, as several of the consultation parties also point out, that this can result in a serious loss of knowledge. So to sum up, the Social Democratic Party generally welcomes the bill and not least welcomes the desire to debureaucratize more in the public sector. However, we also have a number of concerns which we would like to see clarified further, and among other things. We would also like to know if there are any other ways to go and find alternative solutions and compromises.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133823	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319133833	The aim of the draft law is to modernise and simplify the gender equality statements so that they become more relevant to municipalities, regions and the state and help to promote gender equality. It has been a great desire of the municipalities and regions to simplify the statements on equal opportunities. It is also intended to lead to a debureaucratisation and to the elimination of unnecessary administrative burdens. In some of the consultation responses, there is a concern that simplification takes place at the expense of the quality of the gender statements, of the ambitions and priorities of the gender equality work of the public sector, thereby weakening the public focus on gender equality and the aims of the equality law. But the aim of this bill is not to weaken equality, nor is it intended to change the public authorities' obligation to work on equality. Several municipalities and regions have pointed out over the years that they do not believe it has an effect on the work on equality to draw up statements on equality and that they are experiencing the administratively difficult. If a tool is not relevant or provides a relevant return, you might ask yourself why you should have it. The bill is about the form of the equality statements. In the future, it is proposed to report on whether or not equality objectives have been formulated and, where appropriate, on their specific content, and not on whether or not an equal opportunities policy has been formulated and the detailed content of it, as it is today. In terms of experience, objectives are an effective instrument for work on equal opportunities. In addition, it is recommended that gender distribution should be reported in management and in staff matters. This also opens the way for public authorities to relate to gender distribution in various relevant areas, such as: the distribution of leave and part time etc., rather than merely gender distribution in the individual job categories. It is also proposed to simplify the presentations so that the requirements which are not considered relevant to the public authorities are removed. Among other things, it has. led to a simplification in 2013, where free municipalities, as an experiment under the previous challenge law, could decide for themselves how they would report on their gender equality work. Most recently, in 2017 and 2018, a total of six municipalities and one region challenged Section 5a of the Equality Act, which relates to the obligation to prepare equal opportunities statements. The municipalities and the region have among other things: they argue that the equality statements should either be abolished or that the ranges should be extended so that the gender statements are reported every three years or every four years rather than today every two years. The equality statements are not the most important thing for the Danish People's Party in the work on equality. The most important thing must be that you have equal opportunities, regardless of sex, and that there is no discrimination based on sex. Equality is in my optics that you are judged by the abilities and strengths you have and not by whether you are a woman or a man. As there is a great desire to make the equality statements more simple and relevant, as well as a debureaucratisation, we can support it from the DF's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134213	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134224	Thank you. After all, this bill is intended to modernise and simplify the administrative work of municipalities, regions, ministries and state institutions and state enterprises on the equal opportunities statements. And I might as well make it clear straight away that it supports the Left, not least because a large number of actors in this area have pointed out over time that their gender statements have a limited effect on work on gender equality. Following this debate, the Ministry has also carried out what is known as a stakeholder survey in modern communications networks, and this study shows, among other things, that the reports create a degree of awareness of equal opportunities work; but it also shows that the relevance and perhaps most of all the usefulness do not correspond to the administrative work which then lies behind the preparation of the statements. The Ministry also concludes that a somewhat better balance can be struck between the desire to follow up the commitment of public authorities to work on equality on the one hand, and the relevance and usefulness of the statements as a concrete tool in the work on equality on the other. As the equality statements have been knitted together today, they therefore seem to be somewhat administratively difficult for those who have to sit and work with them. For this reason, the government has also listened to the actors who sit with the equality statements on a daily basis and is following up on how the reports can be made more flexible and flexible so that they actually become a useful tool in gender equality work and also become a more constructive tool to actually follow up on the work of public actors on gender equality. That is why the government has taken this initiative to modernise and simplify the gender equality statements so that they actually become relevant to the real work of public actors on gender equality. Here, it is proposed, among other things, that reports should be made on the formulation of objectives for equality and not on the formulation of an equal opportunities policy. And the explanatory statement is quite simple: the majority of public authorities do not actually have a single gender equality policy, and it can therefore be close to impossible to create a fairly sober overview when asked about the gender equality policy of the municipalities for example. In addition, the Government proposes to simplify the presentations so that the requirements that are not considered relevant to public authorities are lifted and, finally, it is proposed that the reports be made every three years in the future, because the work to promote equality requires long-term and sustained efforts and that it is therefore less relevant to prepare and take a position on the statements every two years. At the same time, the 3-year interval ensures that at least once in each term of office and I know that it has been calculated that it is once in each term of office • actually takes a political position on the work of equality, and I think that is actually relevant. I believe that if we listen to the call made by the relevant actors that the equality statements have had a limited effect on equality, we will go further with the work on equality. At the same time, it cannot come as a surprise that it does not matter, at least for my party, that there is something less bureaucracy associated with it. Rules and registration requirements must be reduced as far as possible when, as in this case, it turns out that it does not have the desired effect. Against this background, I can say that the Left supports the bill here, and I should like to say from the Conservative People's Party that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134620	Thank you. There is one point I should like to make. Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134625	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I can hear that the rapporteur attaches great importance to those who have had an experience that it is administratively heavy or it is a burden. What about the consultation answers that are concerned, for example from the Women's Council and from KVINFO? What is the rapporteur's position on them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134650	This is not, of course, a question of • thank you for the question; I take it seriously, of course, to reduce equality work in my optics, on the contrary. This is really a matter of focusing on what is important. Now I have made my own folds in both regional and municipal councils. There I think it is important that we work on objectives here and that what we are, as we are, being measured on is what the objectives of equal opportunities are. I think this is much more relevant, even for those decision-makers who sit around in regions and municipalities, so that they are measured on it, rather than whether they just have a policy or not. So I am not as concerned as the answers to the hearings express and as I sense there is also in the question put by the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134740	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134745	No, I understand that a well-saved white man can stand and say: I am not worried about equality work. That's pretty interesting, I think. This is not to reduce equality work, but that is exactly what the consultation answers say. That is why I am asking about the rapporteur's position. There is a risk that the amendment of the law will result in a significant loss of knowledge in the area of equality. It's from KVINFO. The women's council says it's documented. That's what the SFI says. After all, the bias we have in the gender-based labour market, which is of course in favour of the rapporteur and the rapporteur's gender, has been documented. So if we are working on gender equality, which is about the fact that we have a gender-protected labour market, how will the rapporteur deal with these objections, these very important objections that have been raised in the hearings? What is the rapporteur's position and that of the party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134839	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134841	On my own sex relationship, and whether I am well salvaged or not, I think we should perhaps devote ourselves to a debate in the sidelines. What is important to me is that people in municipalities and regions are actually measured by what they say they are going to do. And I really believe that, both in this policy area and in many other policy areas, is the best way to keep people and the political decision-making bodies out in the regions and municipalities up to what they are actually doing. This is the most sensible way to drive the work of equality and, for that matter, all sorts of other policy areas forward, i.e. to be measured by what you say you are going to do. I think that's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134932	Thank you. I guess there's no further comment. I don't see the Enhedslisten, so that's why it's Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319134941	Thank you. There is probably no doubt that the Liberal Alliance believes that equality statements should be abolished. We do not believe that imposing on the municipalities, the regions and the state any bureaucracy promotes equality. So if it were up to us, we would abolish it, and that is why we are of course also in favour of this bill, which, after all, simplifies and lowers the demands of the municipalities, the state and the regions. So with this, we support the bill because it is moving in the right direction with less bureaucracy and imposing fewer administrative burdens on the authorities. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135027	Thank you. There is one comment again from Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135031	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the recommendation. This is a step in the right direction, says the rapporteur. What is the rapporteur's position on putting this pay gap of 16-17 per cent? In the Danish labour market, if we do not have any knowledge to work from?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135053	Well, when men earn more than women on average, it's because men work more than women on average. And that whole debate about that crazy high pay gap is something that's going on in such closed environments. Because when you go out and look at the inexplicable pay difference, it's about 5 percent. But it is not inexplicable; it is just because the analysis has not examined it. For example: you can see if you take cleaning assistants • men and women • there are far more men taking night work. So despite the fact that the man and the woman are trained, have the same seniority and have the same job, the man gets a higher salary if he works more at night not because he is a man, but because he works at a crooked time, which triggers a supplement. So there are plenty of good explanations. Men would rather work at night than women, which means a higher wage. And besides, they also have more overtime, and they work more. That is the explanation for the pay gap between men and women.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135157	Sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135200	Thank you for your answer. Does this mean that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party do not believe that there are problems with equal pay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135212	Yes, that is absolutely correct. There is no unexplained pay gap between men and women in Denmark. On average, men earn more than women, and that is because they work more because they have chosen some posts where there is higher pay and because on average they work more at odd times than women do. That is why they are paid more. So yes, the Liberal Alliance doesn't think there's a problem in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135234	Then it's mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135235	I have to hear from the Liberal Alliance, which is, of course, the governing party, whether it is the government's view that we do not have an equal pay problem in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135249	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135251	If sir... Rasmus Horn Langhoff is in doubt, I am not Minister. I'm not speaking on behalf of the government. I am the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance and I stand here representing the position of the Liberal Alliance. If the questioner wants the government's position, he has to wait until the minister gets on the platform. I represent the Liberal Alliance when I stand here on the platform as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135316	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135318	This brings me to the second point I would like to note that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance said, namely that, in relation to this specific proposal we are discussing today, the rapporteur says: if it were up to us, it would have to be abolished altogether. That brings me to: Is the Liberal Alliance still with and still part of the government in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135340	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135342	After all, it is an absurd question that I should be standing here and explaining which parties are in the current government. But I'd love to. Yes, the Liberal Alliance is in government. There are three parties, and that means that each time new legislation is decided, all three parties must agree. Sometimes the Liberal Alliance does not agree with the Left and Conservatives, and then a compromise has to be reached, and on this point the Liberal Alliance does not agree with the Left and with the Conservative People's Party. We want these equality statements to be abolished, but there is no willingness on the part of the other parties to do so, and we fully respect that and we are therefore pleased that we are taking a small step in what we think is the right direction. But yes, if the Liberal Alliance had 90 seats after an election, we would abolish these equality statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135430	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135441	Thank you. I almost have to comment on the position and position of the previous rapporteur. I think that there must be almost some members of the Liberal Alliance who read the research that has been done in Denmark and in the Nordic countries and worldwide, which may have a problem with the attitudes that are being displayed. L 195 is a draft law amending the law on equality between men and women, simplifying the rules and reporting on gender equality statements: I would like to start by saying that we can fully support the purpose of the legislative proposal. We fully agree that we need to solve heavy administrative tasks. According to the proposal, there is a stakeholder survey which shows that this report is not seen as particularly relevant or useful. The aim of the proposal is therefore to clarify and clarify these statements so that they can be used to promote equality when it is reasonable in itself. We recognise that. If the different companies and institutions in the public sector experience the equality statement as a heavy administrative burden, it is in itself a relationship we have to deal with, but perhaps more because it may undermine the relevance and the thoughts behind the statement. And that is why we cannot support the bill anyway. For this means, in practice, 1) increasing the frequency of reports by one year and 2) changing the term from "equality policy" to "equality objectives." In my optics, we should have both. Of course we must have some objectives, but we must also have a formulated policy. We are talking politics here in the Folketing. Should we change this to the goal of democracy? Or should we call things what they are? I hope, then, that everyone will develop an equal opportunities policy in the municipalities. That's one. The second is that I would like to refer to some of the answers to which I also asked my colleagues a moment ago. KVINFO notes that there is a risk that the amendment of the law will result in a significant loss of knowledge in the field of equal opportunities, inter alia by: to replace the requirement to report equality statements with formulated objectives. KVINFO writes: "When the current equality statements are considered to be an administrative burden which does not correspond to the relevance and applicability of the equality statements, rather than reducing the requirements for how authorities are obliged to work in the area of equality, consider whether the employees in the work assignment have the necessary tools and competences to work effectively and targeted to promote gender equality. Working with equal opportunities requires knowledge and specific competences. The Women's Council writes: "It has been documented that such a biased gender distribution as we have in Denmark has negative consequences for society as well as individual individuals. At the same time, municipalities are responsible for welfare services such as day care, school, care for the elderly and other institutions that play an important role in reducing gender stereotypes. This underlines the need for regular equality statements as they are used in a proper way as important tools for achieving more equality in the labour market. Without specific targets, an objective is not binding and the objective loses value. I'm not done. I'm just wondering if I should put my own position in play, and I'd like to. As a man, I have the advantage of being a man, and I think it is really a pity that we are not taking much more of the idea we have at our disposal today, not only in that area, and now we are also talking about climate. However, in this area there is so much evidence in our research that points to the fact that, as a man, I am sometimes unable to assess objectively because of my own gender, because of the way I am socialised into society culturally. I would like to acknowledge that as a man, because there are some privileges and thus some angles that I am blind to. In fact, I think the biggest barrier to achieving equality quickly enough in Denmark is that there are not enough men who recognise the position and privilege of having some blind spots in relation to our social development. So this calls for more men to come into the field in the debate on equality and lean on research more than their position. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135947	It was exactly including period of reflection and all sorts of other things, so it was very well timed. Here you go, Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319135957	Thank you. Is it true that I heard the alternative equal opportunities rapporteur say: as a man do I have the advantage that I am a man? After all, it is crazy if an equal opportunities rapporteur actually believes in 2019 that it is an advantage to be a man. Honestly, as a woman, I'm gonna get a little bit dicked about that. You stand on the platform in the Folketing and say it's an advantage to be a man. Oh, that's rude.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140038	Then there'll be feelings, and then we'll forget to charge in the third person, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140043	I forgive the questioner. I find it very interesting how the rapporteur turns it around. There was recently a research result from Norway. They had written an application I actually think it was prepared by a woman and sent it out to various bosses. Some were sent from a man and some were sent from a woman. The chiefs assessed the application and its relevance. And depending on whether it was a man's name or a woman's name, these men who had to hire him made a lot of different decisions. The purpose of saying this is that there is implicitly a bias. a biased attitude among a great many men, including myself, and if I do not work actively with it, it will influence the choices I make and my actions in society. It gives me a huge advantage as a man if I know that other men have such award criteria, our own quotas, which actually fill quite a lot in society because we are not aware of them. They're the ones I want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140155	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140157	So, you can easily refer to all sorts of studies, but to stand here and say in 2019 that you have an advantage in Denmark because and only because you are a man is simply too far-fetched. Is it true that you believe that many men, including yourself, are walking around and are part of some evil men's clubs that keep the women out? That is what I heard the rapporteur say. Does the rapporteur really think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140235	Please remember the kind of charges we have under the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140240	It's okay, and it's fine that you address me directly, but it's also fine that the President address it. No, I don't think there's any bad man clubs. I believe that there is a lot of unconsciousness which sometimes, I think, is, unfortunately, a deliberate denial of promoting an equal society. It can be based on gender, ethnic origin, etc. So I'm saying one hundred percent that we're walking around discriminated against on the basis of a subconscious bias. And then I find it strange that when I lean on a lot of research results and knowledge, the rapporteur says that it is easy to quote from a lot of studies and research results, but it is the evil zip me so...
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140333	It's just not gonna work anymore. Let's just be careful...
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140338	It is a prerequisite for society that we can lean on empire and data...
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140350	Speaking time has been broken, by the way. We'll have to have a certain distance and a good tone, then we'll all feel the best. Then it is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140353	I have to say to Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen: I feel so provoked by what the rapporteur says on the platform that there is an advantage in being a man. What the rapporteur is doing from the platform is talking down to being a woman. We're women, we can do it ourselves. We don't need Mr. Knox. Roger Courage Matthisen's struggle, for it is completely the reverse that is taking place in relation to the debate on equality. What is happening is the fact that women are being talked down as if they are such people who cannot stand up for themselves and cannot get to the top without having such rapporteurs from the alternative who stand and fight their so-called struggle on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140437	Thank you. I almost think it was more a comment than a question, but I would like to comment on the comment. I regret if the rapporteur sees it as speaking down to the rapporteur as a woman or to women in general. That is definitely not the intention, but I would really like to strike a blow for the recognition that if men do not get on the ground, unfortunately we have a huge safe space for our chromosomes to perpetuate a patriarchal structure that we have to do away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140520	It's hard to wear a poker face like that. I hope that's forgiven. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140530	I'm sorry, sir. I'm having a hard time not pulling a smile on it. Roger Courage Matthisen says from the platform. At least now I've told you how I feel as a woman in relation to that, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen has said from the platform. In addition, I agree that of course it is a good thing that men have found out that women can do it themselves and that they are quite indispensable, because I think that men were wrong if they did not have a woman behind them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140605	I think, or rather I know, I would like to acknowledge that it is quite right. In 2017, there was an analysis among parliamentary politicians in Denmark, where five questions were asked: Has equality gone completely out of hand? Is there equality in Denmark? Is it far yet? I think there were five options. Noticeably, this side of the Assembly Hall was in 2017. Significantly enough, I think that when we look at the structures that help to perpetuate a pay gap, the distribution is similar in the business world, and we need to be aware of this if we are to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140658	Thank you. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140700	You've come a long way in this debate, I guess. If we should now come back to the starting point for the debate here, then it is a draft law by the government which deals with the equality statements. I just want to hear the rapporteur's views on how these statements have actually contributed to equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140730	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140730-2	I believe that they contribute with knowledge and insight into the subjects, the job descriptions and provide a basis for us to take good debates and then act in a good way to promote equality. If KVINFO, which I believe actually has more knowledge than I do, believes that there is a risk that the amendment of the law will result in a significant loss of knowledge in the field of equality, then I take it very seriously. I do the same when the Women's Council says that when there are no specific targets in this proposal, an objective is not binding and thus loses its objective value. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140821	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140824	Those who are working on this, like... is decision-makers in regions and municipalities, says that this is more of an administrative burden than it is a contribution to the spread of equality in this country. And they're the ones working on this. The rest of us, you and I, can have all kinds of opinions about this. Excuse me, the rapporteur, but when it is those who sit with their fingers in matter that say that it is more an administrative burden than it is anything else, does it not affect the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140859	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140900	Yes, it affects me in that direction to ask if those who are on the task have the tools and competences necessary to effectively target the work in this area. The question is, do they have it? I was contacted by a police officer a while ago because I have been in a dialogue about scarves for women, and then I ask about how it might be that 40%. of rape reports in Østjyllands Politics Division reaches court when it is a man who receives the notification, whereas 76 per cent. when in court, when a woman receives the notification. The cop, a Danish cop, writes to me in 2019 that it is probably because there are so many who lie about rape, although we factually know through research that there are no more who lie or make false reports about rape than in all sorts of other areas. That's because he's basing it on a gut feeling, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140944	Yes, please! We are talking over time, and when I say yes, it is because the speaking time is clearly exceeded. Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319140956	Thank you. I was gonna ask you if sir... Roger Courage Matthisen really believes that the rapporteur has an advantage because the rapporteur is a man or whether it was a proclamation. And if it was not a statement, but the rapporteur believes that the rapporteur has an advantage, what is that advantage?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141021	I think I've explained that enough now. Let me start from TrygFonden's recent study of primary school. A white child with a white name would have the advantage of perhaps 10%. of cases when moving to a new school, versus a brown child because you have an underlying bias. You're going to discriminate as a teacher. They themselves have been out to comment on this. So what I'm talking about is some bias that we develop through our upbringing socially and culturally, and I also have that bias as a man. And yes, it gives me some benefits in the labour market. I would like to be aware of these benefits so that I can work against them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141103	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141104	Now the rapporteur got mixed skin color into the whole discussion. Well, that's not what we're talking about right now. We're talking about man and woman. And the rapporteur says that when the rapporteur stands up there on the platform and in other situations, the rapporteur has an advantage because the rapporteur is a man. Actually, that's just what I was asking about, not about anything with skin color.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141131	Thank you. And then I would like to point out that something called classes also affects beyond gender. So the rapporteur cannot just talk about man and woman in this situation. The rapporteur must also talk about a brown man, a brown woman. And all the dynamics in our society are influencing our social development. So yes, gender is also related to ethnicity and is also related to religious beliefs when we talk about the mechanisms and dynamics that exist and which are among other things. affects our labour market and our social development.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141213	Thank you. Then there are no more comments or questions to the rapporteur, and we move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Trine Torp, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141224	Thank you. I believe that the President has worked extremely hard today to bring up the Parliamentary Chamber in our indictments. This is a difficult exercise and I will try to see if I can comply with the rules of the game. The proposal before us today, with its own wording, is intended to simplify the rules governing the reporting of equality statements by public authorities. The proposal will simplify the rules in several ways. Today, every two years, public authorities have to draw up an equal opportunities report, which includes: explains whether there is an equal opportunities policy, what it contains, and how the sexes are divided into specific job descriptions. With the government's proposal, that statement will in future only be made every three years. It is no longer necessary to set out concrete equality policies, but rather, as formulated, objectives for equality. Nor should the gender breakdown by job category be reported anymore, but only on two main categories of staff, namely relevant levels of management and, moreover, the area of staff. Then it is also suggested that municipalities and regions should in future not report the gender composition in committees etc. In the SF, we are generally of the opinion that unnecessary bureaucracy and paperwork need to be cleaned up that does not benefit. The problem with the simplifications which the government is proposing here is that they will in all likelihood damage the quality of the statements that will be given in the future, and hence also the general priority given to equal opportunities by public authorities. We are leaning on several of the consultation responses, which indicate that simplifications will hit the quality of gender equality efforts in the public sector. In future, when the statements are to be made every three years instead of every two, the continuity of the work on equality in the public sector that we have had so far will suffer. When the gender equality policy is no longer to be set out, but objectives for equality are being watered down, the obligation to actually formulate a specific equality policy is being watered down. And when the gender distribution in both management and individual job descriptions is no longer to be explained, we risk a loss of knowledge. In the SF, we fully agree that equality statements should not be a waste of time and heavy paperwork. We can take that discussion, but instead of relaxing the demands and watering down the gender statements, we must instead qualify them. We need to tighten up the obligation to have an equal opportunities policy. We need to make more specific demands on concrete action plans and targets for equality among public authorities, and we need to include more parameters for equality than just gender composition, for example. maternity leave and equal pay, so that the statements actually become concrete instruments for improving equality. So, on this basis, the SF cannot support the proposal as it stands, and I should like to welcome both the Enhedslisten and Radicals and say that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141528	Thank you. There are no comments, so that is why it is the Minister for Fisheries and Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141539	After all, it can only be a pleasure for a Minister for Gender Equality that this bill could get the debate on gender equality going so much in the Chamber, and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for all the comments that have been made. This is, of course, primarily about making the tool relevant, with the rapporteur for DF's words; that those who have to make an effort to promote equality seem to think that the tools with which they are required to work make sense, so that it actually becomes a tool that is useful in promoting equality. I have to say that I am probably a little surprised, among other things. Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen's words about a loss of knowledge to come, referring to references in the consultation note, in the light of the amendments proposed in the present draft law. And I just haven't fully realized what that knowledge is, sir. Roger Courage Matthisen is going to miss because of the changes that are now in the bill. Let me just give one example of some of what we no longer want to be reported, namely the gender composition in committee. It is the case today that there is a requirement to report the gender composition in committees etc., and there is the message from those out there who are going to do the work, that the resource consumption to it simply does not match what you get from the reporting. It is simply seen as being heavy and irrelevant. Just to give an example of this, Frederikshavn, Hillerød and Varde Kommuner reported a long list of gender composition in more than 30 committees in 2017, and from central point of view we do not use the reported data at all. When it is information that makes no sense to anyone and that no one is using, then it is a requirement that we must lift. And we also need to think carefully about whether we are asking for information that can only be retrieved elsewhere. What is of course interesting is to follow up the concerns that Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen expressed, and in fact Mrs Trine Torp is also the question of actors. Those who are going to work on this are those who have called for it to be more relevant and more relevant, but they are being referred to the other groups, who are not the ones who are going to do the work, nor are they the ones who are going to decide on how equality is to be achieved around it. I also think that we owe it to each other, as well as to take stock of whether this equality in the public system is going well enough. No, I don't think it does. So how do I best motivate the decision-makers out there to make an effort? That is why I have chosen to listen to the comments that have been made about the fact that some demands are being made here and that we are doing a huge bureaucratic job which we cannot really see having any effect. This is what we are responding to by making these changes, including simplifications, so simply to make it more relevant. I have taken note of the concerns that Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff expressed himself, among others. a desire for a deepening of the arguments for why we move it from 2 to 3 years, what the administrative gain is, stopped against if there is any loss of knowledge. And I look forward, during the committee's work, to clarifying the reasons, as they are in the draft law, in relation to these elements. So I look forward to us having some of the concerns that have been raised, something more, and hope that it will then convince even more of the rapporteurs in the House that what makes sense is that those who have to move on to this agenda think they are working on some sensible things, that is to say, which they also think is useful in moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319141947	Thank you. There are no comments. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142000	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142023	Thank you. This bill, which we are going to deal with, is one of the things we are dealing with. on the so-called entrepreneurship companies and is an attempt to find a way out of the problems that have arisen with the model set up a small handful of years ago, which should make it easier for entrepreneurs to set up companies so that they could live out their dream and their entrepreneurship. Since then, an analysis has been made of the model that was chosen to make there back in time, and it has shown that there are problems. There are too many cases of fraud. There is a build-up of public debt and a whole range of other problems. In addition, the number of companies sent for forced resolution has increased since the whole idea was introduced. That is why today the government is presenting this bill, which is intended to ensure that no more entrepreneurship companies are created and that existing entrepreneurship companies will have a transitional period of two years, from the time we may pass this law here in the Folketing, to re-register into a limited liability company. If you don't do it within two years, the company you have will be forcibly dissolved. In spite of all this, it must be understood that making it easier to be an entrepreneur would reduce the requirement for equity capital from DKK 50,000 to DKK 40,000. There is no doubt that there are problems with the arrangements that have been made. There is no doubt about that. What the Social Democrats are worried about is whether the cut here is right. There have been criticisms in some areas of the bill. Are you hitting too hard? Entrepreneurs are themselves out calling the launch of this bill a black day for entrepreneurs. You can always discuss that if it is. Nevertheless, I think we should take the criticism seriously. Because with the many initiatives we have taken across government divides in this Parliament to ensure more entrepreneurs, I assume there is an interest in us not killing things that could grow with this bill. That is why the Social Democratic Party will propose that it be the attitude of the Social Democratic Party in the committee work that we dive more into this to see if the average is right, to ensure, on the one hand, that we do not repeat the problems that the analysis by the Danish Business Administration has shown that there is really enough, but, on the other hand, can still help to ensure that entrepreneurs also have easy and proper opportunities to set up their business in a corporate form. After all, it is the entrepreneurs who have got their noses in relation to the brilliant idea they have got, and they must have the best possible conditions for growth for that. That is why our main question here is to the Minister and the further work on whether the balance is right. We agree that there are problems. We need to find an answer to them. Conversely, we should not do things here in the Things that kill growth opportunities and good conditions for entrepreneurs. That will be our position on the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142352	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, with a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142355	Thank you. I think this is a political helgard. It is recognised that there have been problems with entrepreneurship companies, that many of them have been used for fraud and that a large bill has been left for tax authorities. And it is, of course, positive that we agree that what was a good idea has, unfortunately, also proved to have some problems. But if the Social Democrats' answer is that we note that we tried it now, but unfortunately it did not work out as we had hoped, and that is why we are removing it again, could the rapporteur be a little more precise on what kind of action the Social Democrats are planning if there is to continue to be a company structure as entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142448	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142450	Well, we are willing to admit that this is very complicated, and the report that has been made actually bears witness to that fact. That's what those who were involved in the work to make sure this model came true, of course it is. So there is really no reason to hide it, and that is why our attitude is just that we are discussing whether the cut is right here. That is, in fact, what is our business, and I think that is quite legitimate. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen can also see what it is, for example, that Danish Industry says about it. This is roughly in line with what the Social Democratic Party says from the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142527	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142527-2	Just to get a little closer, I would like to say that I am quite happy to acknowledge that there are problems. Although the scheme with entrepreneurship companies has aimed at getting more people to set up an entrepreneurship company, it goes without saying that when you look at it, the number of partnerships and sole proprietors has decreased at the same time. Then I would like the Social Democracy to be a little more firm in relation to what it really was for some initiatives to solve the problems that entrepreneurship companies clearly have, according to the analysis that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142604	In other words, there is no doubt that we must avoid the problems identified in the analysis. And so, they've been there by the model we've made. Of course. That is very clear. Conversely, I also think that we should listen to entrepreneurs and try to discuss whether what we are doing here is actually the model that is needed to ensure that we can still have entrepreneurs who can live out their dream and also in a company form that is relatively easy to establish. That is the point of what we are saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142637	Thank you. And then we move on to a new rapporteur. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319142648	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we will allow ourselves to be a little more optimistic and show a slightly greater degree of enthusiasm in relation to the bill that has finally come from the government in relation to taking hold with these ivs companies, the so-called 1-crown companies, which have proved to be clearly unfavorable for those people who want to establish healthy and honest business bases. Those who want to be real entrepreneurs, if one can afford to put it that way, have been strongly challenged by a great many companies that have operated on a very questionable basis. This is also the reason why in December 2018 Dansk Folkeparti made a proposal here in the Danish Parliament that we should, of course, have stopped for further passionate companies in Denmark. When we last had it for debate here in the Danish Parliament at the request of the Danish People's Party, the status of ivs companies was that there were 4,755 ivs companies under forced dissolution, and there were 4.439 ivs companies that were already forcibly dissolved. And that means that at that time, at the time, one in four ivs companies was either forcibly dissolved, in the course of forced liquidation or had gone into final bankruptcy. It is clear speech in clear figures in relation to the challenges that have been for a country such as Denmark, which, of course, would very much like people to embark on being entrepreneurs. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party welcome, because we want people to have a good experience of being entrepreneurs in Denmark, but in our opinion it is not a good experience when the good are outperformed by the bad. And that is what has been the case in many places. There's been a lot of speculation about setting up a company for 1 kroner. For the one crown, which was seen as an effort in the roulette, the Company Board then had problems in getting their personnel resources to strike, because there were too many companies that did not legally report what they were going to do to the authorities; there were very many who would not pay the arrears that they had to pay to the public funds in the form of both VAT and taxes. Thus, in September 2017, the Danish People's Party received a preliminary reply from the then tax minister, who is also the current one, the figures showing that more than 500 million had already been lost. kr. from the Treasury in connection with ivs companies which did not pay what they had to. And worse, when we asked the same question in March 2018, the figure was around 900 million. kr. And then it can be logically said that, as early as November 2018, when an additional 2,500 companies were added to the list of ivs companies that had to be wound up, one could quickly calculate that the final loss at that time was far, far more than 1 billion. kr. On top of the loss, it has been possible to see that there has been a huge administrative burden for the Danish Business Administration in relation to handling all these many, many thousands of companies that had to be dissolved in one way or another. At the same time, you can see that many honest Danish entrepreneurs have felt pressured by the others, who are less honorable in their way of dealing with what is called healthy competition. If you're going to put it a little on the tip, you've been able to see that these ivs companies for 1 kr. have been able to start speculating in company riding and VAT carousels and all sorts of other tax mechanisms that were unfavorable to Danish traders, and then they have actually been able to dump the prices of things other entrepreneurs tried to make into an honest, healthy business in Denmark. In other words, the situation was already like this before the turn of the year, when the Danish People's Party put forward this proposal. Unfortunately, the government would not be helping to put a billion-dollar hole in our treasury. Apparently you didn't think it was enough. No, you wanted something to go along with it. The Danish People's Party refused to do so. We found it strange that one had a government that wanted to play prey merchant in terms of trying to stop something that proved to be unfavorable to Danish traders and the state's money box by the way. But these were the conditions, and that is why it was so that in order to get this bill finally examined, we had to give ourselves in relation to the fact that it has to be cheaper to set up partnerships in Denmark, and it will be so with the bill that lies here. Of course, we support the overall legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143201	No brief remarks, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143209	Thank you. Since in January 2014 it was possible to create an entrepreneurial company with only DKK 1. In terms of capital requirements, it was all good intentions to support entrepreneurship. A relatively broad majority in the Folketing wanted to make it easier to become an entrepreneur and, above all, to make it easier to understand that there was not so much capital to set up an entrepreneurial company. If you look at the figures, many entrepreneurship companies have been set up. From 2014-2017, nearly 42,000 entrepreneurship companies have been established. Unfortunately, we have seen the experience and the analysis has already been mentioned that it has been shown that there were not only positive stories associated with the entrepreneurial companies. There were also too many who were used against the intention and intentions, and that is why today's draft law from the Minister for Industry is that the form of entrepreneurship should be abolished. It must therefore no longer be possible to set up an entrepreneurial company, and existing entrepreneurship companies will have a transitional period of two years, either to be re-registered as equity companies or to be wound up if necessary. As with a large number of initiatives taken during this parliamentary term, we naturally want to ensure entrepreneurship in Denmark and ensure good conditions for it. We have, among other things. with the investor allowance, just to mention one element. But for the abolition of entrepreneurship companies not to be left alone, as has already been said from the platform, it is now also part of the draft law that the capital charge for equity companies is reduced from DKK 50,000. $40,000. After all, the September analysis concluded that too much fraud was being done with entrepreneurship companies. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party explained what has been in the loss of the tax part. There are disproportionate numbers of companies that have been submitted for compulsory winding-up, and that is not a free round. It is thus a relatively costly affair, so it is a bill that has also ended up with the taxpayers of the country. When you look a little beyond the landscape, you can ask yourself whether it has actually been so successful in general. In any case, I have often heard that if you came alone with an entrepreneurial company, it has not been easy to borrow money from financial institutions in other ways than that you as an entrepreneur make a self-defendant. For the banks which had to borrow the money would have a greater security than the one crown that was in the capital of an entrepreneurial company. And that means that, as an entrepreneur, you have still had the full liability. The only place you have not had the full liability has then been to SKAT, and we have unfortunately seen that a disproportionate number of companies have been closed down with a debt to the tax authorities. And then you have to decide whether this was the best way to promote entrepreneurship in Denmark. And there is our conclusion from the Left, in any case, that this is not the case. After all, the analysis also concludes that it is difficult to say whether these companies had been set up anyway, either as equity companies or as privately owned companies. Probability suggests that most of them would have been anyway. Personally, I have to say that when you care a lot about this, you have also just asked in my own company among enterprising people, who are entrepreneurs, just to test. And there is the main message that it would certainly not be a capital requirement of DKK 40,000. to set up a joint venture which would have prevented them from establishing themselves as self-employed. On the basis of the messages I have heard, it should at least have been possible to establish that capital base if you had a really, really good idea. I guess that is also the basis or reason for, for example, that. In their response to the consultation of SMEs, Denmark also supports the government's bill. So we are cleaning up a joint attempt which, in a sense, had good intentions but which unfortunately had too many negative side effects. And then you have to take the consequences of it and clean up when it turns out to be problematic. On the other hand, we are relaxing the capital requirement for limited companies, which is why we support the bill from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143711	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143714	I think that the rapporteur describes both for and against quite well, and I certainly recognise that there have been problems with the system. But what does the rapporteur think about the possibility of saying, as has been done in Luxembourg, that you can only have one partner in one vigor at a time? It would then be this modeling that we have talked about, also when DF tabled resolutions earlier on abolishing them, where we were one of several parties who said that we would like to wait and that we would rather have a different model than abolishing them. Could one imagine that one had made a model where instead one had just said that one must limit it to being able to have only one side in one side at a time, so that this cheat cannot be equally pronounced? Or what was the reason why that approach has not been adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143757	The reality is that you could have chosen a lot. I can see that, at least by limiting ownership to a single investment, at least for people who have really bad intentions on a continuous basis, their doings and barns are limited to a single company, but on the other hand, it will still be a company where there is no capital behind it, that is, where the investor does not like putting his hand on the hot plate with his own money and thus does not really risk anything. One might say that the risk is that one can then, relatively quickly, let an entrepreneurial company go down and then set up a new one, and then the question is whether one has not just done it a little more trouble and has not removed the problems that have been there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143851	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143852	Then I will move on to the second, namely the limit on the amount to set up a joint venture, which is reduced from DKK 50,000. $40,000. The rapporteur says that it is not for those he has just spoken to, at least, the problem is that if you really have a good idea and want to start something, it is not the $40,000 that is involved. I would actually like to acknowledge that for the vast majority of people, but personally I have both had an enthusiasm, been in an i/s and been part of an ApS, depending on where I was in life. There are many students who go out and start something, and who might like it not to be 40,000 kroner, because there is actually a considerable sum. In other European countries you can start for perhaps one euro. Does the rapporteur not believe that there can be distortions of competition there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319143932-2	Of course, there will be some who are concerned about whether or not you will find yourself in a situation where branches of foreign companies will be set up in this way. However, if you look at the figures from before we set up entrepreneurship companies and when that became possible in our neighbouring countries, you just have to see that we did not see it to any significant extent. So I really do not think that this is a problem either. Of course, you can always run a business as a sole proprietorship. There is no capital requirement, but there is a personal liability, which then also makes it easier to borrow capital.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144012	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144022	Thank you very much. The proposal is, as has been shown, about the abolition of the form of company called entrepreneurship or passionately. We in the Enhedslist are immediately in favour of the proposal. As a starting point, it is very good that it is easy to start a business, and Denmark is one of the countries in the world, fortunately, where it is best to start and run a business, and where there is least trouble and bureaucracy and that is good. In this case, however, it may have become too easy that, with a few clicks on the computer and without any kind of capital base, we have been able to create an almost infinite number of companies, at best of very mixed seriousness and, at worst, of direct fraud. We've seen how this has been abused. We can see this from the report that has been referred to, but there have also been examples in the media that when, for example, we are talking about the European Union's role. in connection with the allocation of taxi licenses have had to throw its CPR number into the hat to be pulled out, but then there were people who created 40 companies to be better placed in that draw, and that is of course also a problem in itself. It's probably a good idea for you to have a little something to do when you start a business like that. Then I agree with the other rapporteurs who have said that this could have been done in other ways than by abolishing the ideas. One could, for example: have raised the capital requirement to 10,000 DKK. or 15,000 kroner. It might have been able to stem some of the more untrue foundations. But there is also the proposal that Mr. René Gade mentions that a limitation could have been imposed on the number of companies involved. However, instead of reducing the capital requirement, it is now decided to reduce the capital requirement in relation to equity companies. Of course, it can also have its challenges if new problems then arise there. So you could have done this in many other ways. I also find it interesting to hear the Minister's position on one of the issues that has been raised, namely the risk that companies will simply be set up based on other European countries that are replacing the enthusiasts. However, regardless of these considerations, it is important right now to close the fraud that is taking place quickly and effectively. And there you must praise the Danish People's Party for actually being in the shoes on this issue and having raised the discussion earlier. I think they should be commended for that. One might wonder how much money the public sector has lost in the intervening period, but we think it is good that the government is taking an initiative now. We are also prepared to take part in the creative process, as Mr. Morten Bødskov mentions whether we can find better solutions in the committee work, but within the timeframe laid down by the government. Because if we don't get there now, of course, we don't know when the election will be held. Well, then we're gonna have to go to the other side of Parliament's opening before we can even get back to work on this. And I just don't dare go that way. So we are ready to look at whether there are things that can be changed, but within the timeframe laid down by the government. When we talk about entrepreneurship, there are many other issues that I thought it was time we could discuss more. Because it's clear that this whole corporate and capital thing is important, but there are things we're practically never talking about. This is something like social security, which I know means a great deal to many people who are considering starting a business, not least women. That, for example, the maternity fund for self-employed persons. In my view, the fact that this government has not taken any initiatives to find a solution to it is a far greater obstacle to many people than much of what we are discussing in here. The same is true of the rules we have in the area of unemployment benefits, which means that a company will have to dismantle itself if, for example, it has to dismantle itself for a period of time. because of an economic crisis does not have a turnover that is high enough to live on. And that is how you could look a lot of places to create opportunities, a framework for entrepreneurship, which made more people dare to start something themselves, and that is what is meant by it all. So it is just a call for us not to let the discussion stop with the abandonment of the vigs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144526	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144535	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it should be easy to start a business in Denmark, and it should also be easy to operate in Denmark. We would like to see a great many independent entrepreneurs in Denmark. It is important for Denmark, and it is also nice that there are people who want to take an economic risk and make an extra effort to perhaps never know if it will succeed in creating a large, good company. We think that the enthusiasts were a very good idea, which we would have liked to see continued, but it turns out, unfortunately, that the construction meant that there was a lot of public debt, and that there were many more forced solutions on the account of the state than would otherwise happen, and thus increased costs for the public sector. That is why we can see the importance of abolishing it. What we so want to do instead, or what we do instead, is to set something in motion that can then help entrepreneurs in a different way. Therefore, it is proposed to reduce the capital requirement from DKK 50,000. $40,000 when you start a joint venture. We would actually have liked it to go further, but we think this is a very good compromise, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144704	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319144712	When we last dealt with the subject in the Parliamentary Chamber, it was because the Danish People's Party had taken up the matter and set out to abolish the entrepreneurship companies. We had a good debate, and in the alternative we also recognised the analysis that there was at least a problem. There was simply too much cheating and it was exploited that one could set up these companies without having, as was said, the hand on the hot plate financially. There were some who had set up an absurd number of companies for absolute own gain and without much growth for Denmark. However, we have always been very critical of closing the company form because we actually believe that a better version should be made; we should perhaps go in to look at the controls that have been, rather than leave the possibility there, but increase control and become better at assessing when there is a risk that some will cheat on it. There have actually been some interesting things in play from some of the consultation parties who, as I also asked a few moments ago, mention Luxembourg, for example, where it has been decided that there should be only one side to one side. Well, you can't just create x number ivs, because you have bad motives in mind; i.e., you can only have one part in one ivs at a time. This could certainly be a way of curbing, as I understand the taxi case that was before us, where there were some taxi companies that set up really, very many enthusiasts. You could also go in to see if this limit of DKK 1 is equal to. In fact, it benefits the growth layer of self-employed people that we would like to have in Denmark. After all, there is a difference between entrepreneurs and self-employed people, and not least between unicorns and growth companies. I believe, for example, that there has been an opportunity for those who simply do not have the economy to start a real bigger business and put x number of crowns in the deposit or foundation. There has simply been a need. And as an individual you can set up a company that is personally owned, where you are liable for everything and not just for the amount of the foundation, you can say that you can still do so if you want to create something yourself without having to make an ApS. Well, there's a difference. Because if you start a personally owned company, you can't easily go out to sell lots during a start-up period where you might actually want to give some kind of options to take yourself forward with an advisory board, or that you want to get more competencies in, but don't really have the capital. In the alternative, we would have liked to have kept the zeal. We listen a lot to the consultation parties, including entrepreneurship associations, who say that this is really a pity. We are going to vote against the proposal, but it could surely be that a solution could be found in committee which would make us feel positive about it as well. But at first sight we think it is quite wrong to abolish the enthusiasm. One last comment is that we in Denmark have the great challenge that we have really, really, really well and it's a great thing but if we want people to take more risk and also become entrepreneurs and self-employed to a greater extent, we have the challenge here in the field of unemployment benefits as well as in our business policy in the field of ivs, that if you go in and say that you can't start up as barrierlessly as an enthusiasm, because we're afraid that there's gonna be cheating, then there's just a lot of people who don't dare to throw themselves into it. Because if you are going to start up and have some real risks of starting up, but facing it sits and looks at an employee situation where you are actually doing quite well and do not take the big risk, so there are a lot of people in a nice Danish country who choose not to take a risk. So the enthusiasts have helped to make it a little easier to try to start a business. Depending on where you are in life, it can be the right model. As I said before in one of the questions, which then became a comment, I myself have had an enthusiasm, and I have also been in an ApS, and I have also had a one-man business. It's been addicted to where I was in life. And there I think we shoot ourselves in the foot by doing this instead of going into a deeper treatment of what we could have improved.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145116	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145122	When you follow the debate today, you get a very good impression of what the dilemma is when we talk about enthusiasm. On the one hand, we would like to make it really easy to start a company that's why we gave the opportunity to make an effort for just 1 kr. Therefore, it may be wise to make sure that you do not have a regime that is being abused. I think that the study by the Danish Business Administration shows that there are problems with this scheme, which all the rapporteurs before me have recognised. On the radical side, we also think it's a good idea to try to solve this. One option, which is proposed, is to reduce the capital requirement for equity companies from DKK 50,000. $40,000. We would also like to discuss in committee whether there is an opportunity to save the enthusiasts if some can come up with the completely brilliant proposal. I do not think it has been on the table yet; nor do I think it has been in the hearings that there was a way to save the lust. So even if we think it should be easy to start business in Denmark in every way, and it is actually also far along the way, we are in favour of this proposal, because it cannot be the case that when we debureaucraticise and make things easy, we open charging gates to our systems, which make it too easy to defraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145250	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145305	Like the other parties in the Danish Parliament, we also want a balance between the fact that it must be easy and easy to set up a company and to be an entrepreneur, and on the other hand we must also take responsibility for the barn gate of bankruptcy and fraud, etc., as we have seen with the enthusiasts. In contrast to single-member companies, the only liability is for the part of the company, i.e. for the assets of the company, whereas in single-member companies there is unlimited liability. So we've just seen too many stories about what's come out of it. So if we want to do this together, and I hear that the parties of the Danish Parliament want to do this, that is, make a model that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to start up. Well, of course, we have to look at this with the fact that you are only liable for your deposit, your partner. In line with the Social Democracy, and I am also hearing it from the Alternative and perhaps the Enhedslisten, we would like to see whether, before we vote at third reading, we can find some other options. We are very ready for that. We also know that we have a Minister for Industry who says that the Minister is very concerned about small businesses. In line with many of my colleagues, I believe that we should look at more than just the form of the company and the deposit required, but also look at the maternity fund for self-employed people or some of the problems of the fact that there are a number of rights that one could say that one does not of course have as an entrepreneur. In SF we have made a proposal about employee-owned companies, where one of the elements is that there are some employee rights that are actually introduced into this new form of company. It should not be risk-free to be an entrepreneur, but I think that we can create a model where there is a safety net anyway, so that we get more people to try it out. And then there's this balance thing. We should not have a form of company that has given too much incentive to too many people who have not acted in a proper and sensible way and thus simply passed the bill on to the community in the form of a sea of bankruptcies and losses, for which we are not liable for what we have actually been responsible. It doesn't look like anything. But we also need to make it easier. So we support the government's proposals, but I also think it is a great situation that in this area we actually have all the parties in the Danish Parliament who say that let us try to see if we can preserve some of the positive elements in it, and then we have to make up for the fact that too many people have abused this scheme. It cannot continue in the same form.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145634	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145639	Thank you. After all, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, the draft law is about abolishing entrepreneurship as a form of company and reducing the capital requirement for equity companies to DKK 40,000. from the current DKK 50,000. We think this is a very sensible legislative proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, we would very much like to make it easy to start and run a business in Denmark, which is why we are also working to reduce corporate burdens in general, but unfortunately the company form entrepreneurship companies, ivsers, have shown that it can also be too easy to set up a company • 1 kr. is simply too little. And the risk of the companies being used or abused is probably closer, cheating and fraud or otherwise becoming a burden on society, is too great when the founder does not have to have a sufficient hand on the hobby plate and it is neither in the form of capital nor in relation to the liability. For this reason, eagers have been very expensive for the public because many have ended up having to be forcibly wound up or go bankrupt. Now that we are abolishing the vigs, it has been an important priority for the Conservatives to reduce the capital requirement for the ApS at the same time, so that it will be a little easier to create an ApS now that we are phasing out the vigs. So we are very pleased with the bill and, of course, also with the fact that we will have the capital requirement lowered to the DKK 40,000. from the 50,000 kroner. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319145838	Thank you for your comments on the bill. I am very much in line with many of the comments made by the rapporteurs during the rapporteur's round. There is clearly a dilemma, because on the one hand we certainly want it to be easy and cheap to set up companies in Denmark and get started as an entrepreneur, but on the other hand we have problems with cheating and some skewed incentives in entrepreneurship companies. It is basically not healthy that you can start a company and have nothing at stake yourself. Then you can owe some money and then you can shut down the company without even having a loss of it in any way, while the people you owe money will be left with the loss. It is difficult to ignore both the problems of the incentive and the identified problems that have been encountered in the ivs in terms of debt to the public authorities and also debts to other collaborators that the ivs have had. It hurts some people when you owe money and you can just shut down a company and run off the bill. The people to whom the money is owed suffer, who are cheated on the money they could have been given and are entitled to, and then the owner of the investment can go ahead and set up a new company without any personal consequences, and without having anything at stake because you do not have a capital injection into the company. I don't think we can ignore that. It is an unreasonable attitude towards those people who are going to lose their minds, and also to the public purses, if they miss out on money that the right people should have had. We have also identified some Christmas numbers in the taxi industry, and we find it difficult to accept that in this way it has been speculated that it costs nothing to set up companies. Then approx. 300 companies and put them in a pilot's bowl, and in this way this form of company has simply been abused. You could have chosen other middle ways. One might have chosen to say that in an eagerness there may have to be a capital requirement of DKK 20,000, and then one could have a share company with a claim of DKK 50,000. We have chosen to reduce the capital requirement for the partnerships to DKK 40,000. to take a step towards making it easier and cheaper to set up a real company. And then I would like to point out that there are also still personal companies that you can start without costing anything. It doesn't cost anything to have a personal company. You are then fully liable for the money you are going to owe, but that still means away that you don't have to have $40,000 until you can start business. This can also be done in a personal company. We believe that if you have a strong idea, you can get either $40,000. or assume the risk that you yourself will be liable for any sums due. That is why we believe that the balance here is right. Nor is there any point in having many different types of society, which then differ by perhaps 10,000 kroner. or 20,000 kroner. In terms of capital requirements, for the jumping point is not whether to raise DKK 20,000. or 40,000 kroner. But, of course, there's a big difference between going from 1 kroner. and up to a larger amount, because that means that you have something at stake, and that fundamentally changes the wrong incentives that have been given to entrepreneurship companies. This is certainly our bid for a sensible compromise, and I am glad that we have had this lowering of the capital requirement for the equity companies, but it is with some regret that I have to say that it is necessary to shut down the strong indications of a rather large extent of irregularities in the entrepreneurial companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150237	Mr President, there is one brief comment. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150241	Thank you for your review. The Minister agrees, as he says, with many of the considerations that have been made in relation to the fore and against. I find that gratifying, because then there will be a nuanced picture of why it is that it is being shut down. I still hope in committee that we may be able to approach the matter in the near future. We'll have to look into that. I just want to read one thing from the Business Department's analysis of entrepreneurial companies from September 2018, just to get the Minister to talk a little bit about what we're actually saying goodbye to, knowing that there are some good arguments for saying goodbye. Entrepreneurship companies with a total turnover of 5,2 billion have simply been established in the period 2014-2016. DKK 5,200 employed and an export of 430 million. kr. Then it can be said that it is not necessarily alone because these companies have been formed. It might also be that they had landed elsewhere, but it is not just cheating and madness, and I think that one might end up believing that after the debate that has taken place lately, that is to say that it is almost just cheating. And it isn't. It's a pretty big deal. What does the Minister think of these figures? Where do we recreate them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150347	It is quite true, of course, that this should not be the case, because an entrepreneurial company has been set up, that then there has been something disguised about it. That is not the case at all. However, it is difficult to know how much of the extra turnover of the extra employees would have been in other forms of company if there had been no entrepreneurial companies. Probably a very large part of it would have been in other forms of company if one had not had the form of an entrepreneurial company. Hopefully, it is not the form of the company that is the main reason why growth and jobs are created, but more, that you have a strong idea and a strong network and the personal drive that is needed to create a company. So I have a belief that by far most of the turnover and employment that has been through entrepreneurial companies would have been there anyway if that form of company had not existed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150438	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150441	A brief comment is that we do not know that, but it must also be said that the combination of those who may have been at a relatively initial stage of business creation has been better in these companies, at least in the entrepreneurial environments. But let's see how things are going, and then we can compare the figures about x number of years and see if there has really been a bigger gap than the Minister hopes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150506	Yes, and also when we look forward, it will be difficult to measure precisely what the effect is, because there are so many different factors that determine how many new companies are being formed in Denmark. But we will continue to do all we can to strengthen the entrepreneurial environment in Denmark. There should be no doubt about that in all possible ways. Right here, we may think that it has been a little too cheap and free to set up companies that have ended up with little content, but have largely ended up being used for wrong purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150539	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150552	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150611	Thank you for that, President. It is true, as was said, that this bill, among other things. is about amending the law on financial business and is based on the political agreement, which we in the Danish Parliament broadly made back in September 2018 and which was, of course, about further efforts to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. It was a broad agreement and the Social Democratic Party is still very pleased about it. It contains a number of good initiatives, and we will then introduce them with this bill. In addition, there are also a number of initiatives from the committee work which the government itself has set up, which deals with the review of financial regulation, that is to say the legislation which is in the financial field. First of all, the initiatives of the political agreement on combating money laundering and terrorist financing, which we made back in September 2018. There are a number of suggestions that are included here. We are tightening up the requirements for the responsibility of managers in financial undertakings to ensure that there are sufficient competences and also systems in institutions to avoid money laundering. The circle of people who have to meet these requirements of suitability and integrity, which are already in the legislation today, is being expanded, so that key people also come under these requirements, the protection of whistleblowers across the financial sector is strengthened, and a few other requirements are introduced from the agreement too. Secondly, the draft law also contains a number of initiatives and proposals from the working group set up by the government itself to review financial regulation in general. It is a large report that has been prepared and a few of the initiatives that the Social Democratic Party would like to see deepened are, for example, the proposal that the annual report by the responsible actuary to the FSA should now be abolished. We find it difficult to see the explanatory statement and to understand the argument and the view in the draft law that it is believed that the so-called Solvency II is what actually ensures that you do not have to have it here anymore. If you listen to the Dansk Aktuarforening, they do not agree that the things contained in Solvency II can also replace the annual reporting. So we want to look at this in committee, just as we also want to look at the proposal from the government's own committee work to abolish the requirement for insurance companies to have and also to keep a register of the group of assets whose total value at any time is at least equal to the value of the company's total technical provisions. It is, of course, about the concern that you can have as an insured person when you take out insurance in a company, so the interests of the policyholders are also financially protected if the wind should blow and the company should get into trouble. In particular, we want to take a closer look at these two points in committee. We can support the first part of the draft law, as I said, we have problems with the other two proposals here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150943	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319150959	Thank you. Finally, the day came when we could embark on some of the initiatives covered by the agreement that we reached in the financial conciliation group back in September 2018. As the Socialist rapporteur has said, both the draft law we are discussing here, L 189, and the two that follow, not least L 204, but in principle L 205, contain parts of the money laundering agreement that we concluded. In the Danish People's Party, we welcome the fact that we have an agreement that implements some of these things from the fifth money laundering directive. It is reasonable that these things should be put in place, even at the first reading of these legislative proposals today, but this is especially true of L 189, where we are also looking at the part about what I think has been particularly important, and it is of course in relation to the management responsibility of the Danish financial institutions that we will have clarified and increased it. And these are increased reporting requirements, significant fit and proper rules, which are put in place more in relation to what may be made of ordinary, natural, expectable requirements regarding both fitness and integrity, not least professional experience, etc., in relation to the people who take on the tasks that may be, as key employees or on the board of directors and management of Danish financial institutions. Then, of course, there is the situation with what has been a lot of debate, and that is in relation to the legal position of these whistleblowers, I would almost say, in terms of what they have and what they can risk if they choose to come forward with the knowledge they have gained in their tasks. We will also ensure better protection of their situation. So the Danish People's Party could have supported the fact that these three bills were co-examined here in the Danish Parliament. But we take them one at a time today, and the Danish People's Party can support L 189.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319151210	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319151227	There is no doubt that we have been hit by too many and too many scandals; of course, everyone is one too much, and the size is always too large when it comes to money laundering. Especially in the autumn of last year, we were all very upset by what we were witnessing. This is why a broad range of political parties concluded an agreement that takes initiatives to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The draft law we are now debating has, among other things, been adopted. aim to translate parts of the agreement. In addition, the draft law contains a number of recommendations made by the Financial Regulation Review Working Party in its report •Advising the financial regulation from 27 April last year. The proposal contains many measures that will increase the responsibility for money laundering and terrorist financing: reinforced rules on responsibility for the management of a financial undertaking in order to ensure sufficient competences and systems to avoid money laundering and better protection of whistleblowers across the financial sector. It is important that whistleblower schemes do not lead to negative consequences for those employees who, through a whistleblower scheme, can reveal criminal conditions and thus increase the likelihood that things are stopped in time. Therefore, it is also important for companies to be able to demonstrate in future that the alerts that come through a whistleblower scheme are being followed up. It is of course no use that we have whistle-blower schemes and have secured employees if there is no assurance that they will also be followed up, and indeed in a way that has been documented, so that the FSA can check at their inspections that the warnings and concerns or direct instructions of highly problematic conditions are, of course, followed up. The circle of persons required to comply with the rules of fitness and integrity of financial institutions, electronic money institutions and payment institutions shall be extended. It also involves the introduction of a requirement for financial institutions, electronic money institutions and payment institutions to have a policy which ensures and promotes a healthy business culture, such as: prevent money laundering and other financial crime. There must be a written policy in financial institutions and payment institutions not only a sound policy, but also, of course, one that is written down so that you know what you have to comply with. As I have said, the circle of persons and businesses covered by the fit and reserve requirements is being expanded in financial institutions and payment institutions. This means that not only the Management Committee and the Board of Directors must be fit and property-approved, but also key persons. Thus, if you place a task with an employee in a key area and are not part of the Executive Board, you cannot avoid a central task being solved by a person covered by the fit and property rules. The proposal contains a number of restrictions on financial regulation which, in the light of the events of the autumn, we have seen necessary and needed to introduce, because it is essential that there is security and a broad, recognised acceptance that we as a society ensure that we protect society from money laundering and ensure that we make tough demands on financial institutions, for example, so that we prevent scandals such as those we have seen in the future. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319151615	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319151625	Thank you, President. This is one of these pile proposals, as I usually call them. It is a proposal of 250 pages of business law with 32 different measures in the financial field. I just want to say that I always think it's a challenge to deal with this kind of proposal. I do not know what the solution to that is, but I think that, if we are to be honest, there are many of us who, of course, read it carefully, but who find it very difficult to assess the concrete consequences of many of the actions and what can actually lie in them. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. I don't. Does the Minister know? Do the officials know that? In other words, it is based on a great deal of confidence when we deal with this type of proposal, and I always find that a little disturbing. I do not know what to do about it, because the problem is, of course, that the financial sector has become as complex as it is, and therefore requires extremely complex legislation, and the question is then who it is ultimately for the benefit of. It was a little detour you can't say, because it's in English, so I'd say it was a little detour. However, the elements contained in the proposal are, as a starting point, positive. There are several things that have been discussed and that we have also asked for ourselves. This applies to better protection of whistleblowers, stronger fit and property rules and, in general, to a number of measures that will make it more difficult to engage in money laundering or terrorist financing, and that is a positive thing. It is clear that we would like further initiatives to be taken and, of course, we hope that the negotiations that are under way will lead to new and even tougher initiatives in relation to punishment, to stronger and more independent supervision, and to the availability of the necessary resources in this area. In this long line of elements, there are some other things we're really happy about. There is the question of the green investment fund, which was, after all, a public banking facility which the Enhedslisten succeeded in establishing during a financial bill negotiation with the aim of lending money to green projects, especially in companies, but also in, for example, in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. general housing companies. This extends their possibilities from only granting loans to granting guarantees, as well as, for example, granting guarantees. The Export Credit Fund and the Growth Fund can in advance. This is a positive step. We would like to see a further step taken and also allow the Green Investment Fund to make investments, as the Growth Fund can do today. It has been a very good business for the State in the field of the Growth Fund, so why not expand it in the field of the Green Investment Fund? Then we have the problem with the green investment fund that it is running out of money. It has been so successful that there are so many companies that want to invest in the green transition, so this year you run out of money and no more money can be borrowed. This is something that we should have looked at already, but which we will have to look at most recently with autumn's financial law negotiations, regardless of which government is then in office. We also share the concern about the current situation. It is always a little difficult, because of course the actuaries themselves do not want their tasks to be reduced, but, on the other hand, of course, they also have to assess whether they really have a negative impact. Another small concern is this with loan financing of own shares and shares. As a starting point, it makes sense, following on from some of the bank scandals we have seen, where customers were tied on their sleeve, that they should, if I may say so, borrow money to invest in the bank's own shares, and then they lost a lot of money, I think, among other things, it was at Roskilde Bank and elsewhere. There are two challenges to this which I would like to ask the Minister of Industry to deal with. One is about the co-funds, some of which, as far as I know, have a model where, for example, you have a model. A loan must have a certain share capital which can then be financed by a loan. I am just a little worried that you are going in and destroying a model that has worked for many years for some of the smaller cooperative funds. The second point I can see now is that I am about to conclude is that some of the circles who are trying to start new mortgage associations, which could be very good for competition in the mortgage market, among other things. has looked at a model based on the fact that, when a bond loan was made, a capital injection could be made at the same time, because it is really difficult for newly established mortgage institutions to find the capital needed to enter into such a bond series. So there are some concerns there, but on the other hand I can understand the purpose of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152151	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152158	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we strongly disapprove of money laundering and cheating. Unfortunately, we have seen cases which are totally unacceptable. That is why we want to tighten up rules, controls and penalties. In this bill we propose to expand the circle of people who can meet the requirements of fitness and integrity, the so-called fit and property requirements. This means that the FSA has the opportunity to react if you do not find that people are fit to play a key role in a payment institution, financial institution or e-money institution. The new rules will not affect already employees in these posts. In addition, we will make a policy that ensures and promotes a healthy corporate culture. It shall contribute to employees' awareness of possible activities associated with money laundering or other financial crime. It will be the Executive Director who will be responsible for anchoring the policy in the organisation. Naturally, when employees are asked to have more attention, it should also be the case that employees can tell about the things they may discover. So if you see something that you think has the character of crime, you should be able to go ahead with it without being afraid of reprisals or being nervous about your future career. That is why we are going in and proposing to strengthen the whistleblower system. Of course, it only makes sense to ask staff to pay attention, and it only makes sense to strengthen a whistleblower scheme if the management or management also responds to the reports that are coming. So that is also something we want to focus on. In addition, we live in an international world. That is why it is also important to think third-country branches into legislation. It is therefore proposed to authorise the FSA to lay down rules for branches of third-country companies. However, in addition to the actions I have mentioned here, there are a number of actions that follow up on parts of our autumn 2018 agreement on further initiatives to strengthen efforts in the field of money laundering. This is a very important effort and the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152445	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152454	In the alternative, we are positive about the bill and the agreement in its entirety to address money laundering and terrorist financing and to ensure better regulation of our financial system at all. So many fine things have been said from up here, and there are some anchors in the consultation answers that we will also look at, in relation to actuarials and the comments of the Things. But I don't want to bring that here. I would just like to make one comment to Mr. Pelle Dragsted's speech in relation to the very complex area we are dealing with here. I am only a substitute in the field of industry, but I have been rapporteur before, and I remember clearly what it was like to get these stacks to read through. I think there is one point in that we are missing someone we are simply missing someone who is helping us to figure out these things. We were talking a little about it outside before, when I was made aware that there really is no one today. At European level, we have previously advocated that there should be an independent body to help us with this. There I understood from my fellow rapporteur that there was something, but not to a degree, so I have noticed it as a business rapporteur at least. Who really has to make sure that we do not just buy the cat in the bag when we review such a bill here? It is impossible for me as a layman to see through the consequences. There we get the help of consultation parties and skilled employees. But after we've just had an entrepreneurial proposal about the ideas on the field, there's such an idea in my head that somebody's looking at doing this... a body that can simply, with professionalism, independently help us see what the consequences are, when we're sitting with these very complex things on, among other things. the business area. Right here, it looks like there's a blue ocean for those who want to. Unfortunately, I am not myself competent enough in this area to do so. But it is interesting and there must be respect and humility for what we are dealing with as politicians here. It's really, really complex matter. So let us look at the committee procedure to see if there is anything that needs to be corrected. But otherwise we are positive in the alternative to what has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152711	On the radical side, too, we are in favour of this bill, since we are part of the conciliation group which has already tightened up its efforts to punish the financial companies involved in money laundering and other criminal offences, just as, in line with a number of parties in the Folketing, we do not believe that we are in any way in the end yet, but that there is therefore a need for several more initiatives, including an increase in the level of penalties and also an opportunity to punish advisers for this kind of financial crime. We look forward to continuing this work with the rest of the Folketing so that we can achieve further results in this extremely important area if the credibility of the financial sector and the credibility of the political system in the eyes of the people are to return to the level that I think we all want. Having said that, we have also looked at some of the objections that have been raised in the areas also mentioned by the Social Democrat rapporteur. We're kind of in doubt. In other words, there is the certainty that actuar is calculated on the basis of these different pension options, but how much bureaucracy does it actually provide and how much uncertainty does it give if it is completely abolished? So we think there is reason to discuss it. As far as we can see, it is not because it is a lot of money that is saving on abolishing this requirement for actuarial review, not very much money, but we will be wiser to do so in committee before we take a final position. Maybe it makes sense to separate this part. In any case, we can support most of the proposals that we ourselves have been involved in developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152859	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319152917	This bill partly translates into the agreement reached by the conciliation circle, which consists of a number of parties, including the SF, in September 2018, partly some of the proposals that came from the working group on a strengthened financial sector, and partly the implementation of EU legislation. My colleagues have already mentioned elements of this. I would like to highlight the Green Investment Fund and also agree with the comments made by Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted, that we are faced with the luxury problem, that they really do now need money to invest and that there is no shortage of things to invest in. I hope we can take that at another time. Then we also strengthen the protection of whistleblowers, and that is something that we in the SF have been very concerned about for a long time. We're still not done, we're looking at it. We are expanding the circle of people who have to comply with the fit and proper rules, i.e. suitability and integrity. And we're strengthening the FSA, etc. Now, if you might follow a screen, you can think that it is such a six-monthly tradition in the Danish Parliament that they are making legislative proposals with a sea of points here over 30 points to strengthen the financial sector. I just have to say that we are going to be doing this for a while yet, because there is still a lot to be done to make things right. And right now, we are also negotiating further measures over at the Minister for Industry. One of the things I want to mention as something we are nervous about in the SF, and which is part of this very comprehensive agreement, is the possibility of carrying out ancillary activities. We have, of course, what to say, certainty that it is, as I understand it, the FSA that has to approve the very specific projects if a company wants to enter another market, a new MobilePay or other forms of payment services, or whatever it may be, that is to say, areas in which it is not legally entitled to enter today. Then you get to do it here after an approval from the SEC. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is right, of course, that we do not know which products or which areas can come into play. You open the door, and then we say it's up to the FSA to approve these things. I would also like to see more emphasis being placed on the fact that, in connection with the specific authorisation to be granted, competition in the market is also to be looked at, because we already have some financial supermarkets, and when we open the door to moving more into an area where we cannot do it within the limits of the law today, we risk cementing these financial supermarkets and actually reducing competition. Payment services and so on are a huge, growing market, and competition from small fintech companies or others could be fine, but if the big players sit down on these new markets and thereby reduce competition even more, I think we have a problem. So it is a concrete proposal that we should also look at the competitive situation when these authorisations or authorisations are to be granted. But in addition, the SF supports the bill. There are a whole series of very good points that we have also been involved in negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319153330	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319153339	The bill here implements parts of the political agreement we reached in the autumn, which aims to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. This concerns, among other things: to strengthen the rules for the protection of whistleblowers, in which all financial undertakings are required to be able to demonstrate how to follow up an approach to the whistleblower scheme on suspicious conditions within the company. It is clear that there has to be a culture in financial companies, where, of course, every case is dealt with on its own merits, as you will be aware, and where there may be some cause for suspicion of irregularities, and that is why I think it makes good sense to make clear rules that financial companies must, of course, be able to demonstrate that they have procedures for dealing with the situation if they are to be familiar with enquiries about the whistleblower scheme. Another element of the bill is that the circle of the management of financial undertakings, which must be subject to requirements of suitability and integrity, should be expanded to include all key persons in the company. That requirement is introduced to ensure that members of the actual management responsible for compliance and money laundering prevention are included. It makes great sense, of course, that it is not only the management and the management board, but also the key employees who are actually involved in combating money laundering. The legislative proposal here is another one in the series of proposals and political agreements in which we tighten our grip on the financial sector. In the past, we have also multiplied the penalties if the rules have not been complied with, and we are also currently negotiating how to strengthen our financial supervision. In the Conservative People's Party, we take the view that we must have consistent legislation in which violations are severely punished, and that is whether you wear a suit or a hoodie. In the financial sector, too, we must behave properly, and that is why we also support and have supported all the rigours that have been and that we have implemented so far, and of course we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319153602	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319153612	Thank you for your comments. I see that some young people have come up on the audience ranks. I regret that it is not a particularly child-friendly proposal that we are discussing here at the moment, with the law on changing financial activities and repealing the law on state participation in credit institutions. There might be more interesting things to discuss, at least if you are a young person. Nevertheless, it is important, and I also agree with some of the comments made by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, about the democratic challenge of having such comprehensive financial legislation that it can be difficult, even for business rapporteurs, to be sure of all the details of what we are voting on in the Parliament and which we are discussing. Because it is comprehensive, and this bill contains many different amendments, which are not individually super complex, but which are very much put together, and there are also many pages on my desk on the legislative proposal that we are discussing in this Chamber today. I would also admit, as a minister, that it is a challenge to have to plow through all the details of it, and it would be gratifying if more people were interested in it and could come up with challenges from the proposals that are being put forward. After all, we are trying to do the best we can in the Ministry to look through it all, and we have a consultation process to ensure that there are different views so that the people who are interested in the area have the opportunity to provide input. I also see some very clear prints. When you hear the rapporteur's speeches, you can also hear that various stakeholders are being talked about and that many of the points of attention that come out will also get to the debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly. But it is absolutely a demanding task to get to grips with all the financial legislation, and you can discuss what you can do about it. You can make more simple legislation. That would probably be my preferred approach, but it should not be imagined that something as complex as the financial sector can be boiled down to very simple legislation. Then you have to make sure you have a good process, so many views come out. In relation to the content of this really comprehensive bill, it is about implementing actions that strengthen efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and we are following up our autumn 2018 agreement on initiatives to strengthen efforts in the field of money laundering. This means, among other things, that we are introducing stricter rules on responsibility for the management of financial undertakings in order to ensure that there are sufficient competences and systems to avoid money laundering. We strengthen the protection of whistleblowers across the financial sector. In future, former employees will also be protected from disadvantageous treatment or adverse consequences if they make whistleblower reports. In future, companies will have to demonstrate that the whistleblower system reports have been followed up. Then the draft law implements the initiative of the political agreement that there must be a written policy in financial institutions to ensure and promote a healthy corporate culture, including preventing money laundering and other financial crime. Then the circle of persons covered by the fit and proper requirements will be expanded. This means that it is not only the management and board of directors that are to be fit and property-approved, but also key persons, such as the money laundering officer in the company. After all, these are all initiatives which have been decided here politically by the Danish Parliament and which are therefore to be expected to be supported by the Danish Parliament. Then we will also implement some of the recommendations that have not come directly from the Folketing itself, but have come from the Working Party on the review of financial regulation. It is with a view to modernising and securing financial legislation for the future, and some of it is actually about abolishing legislation and making it more simple. There is some extinct legislation that no longer has any relevance, among other things. on State participation in financial institutions. Since there are no more State capital injections, it is no longer relevant to have that legislation. We remove the requirement that the actuary responsible in life insurance companies should submit an annual report to the FSA. It is also because there has been other regulation that carries out that task, and we believe that there is no longer any need for information. The draft law also contains a number of amendments to financial legislation, including, inter alia: an extension of the ban on loan-financed purchases of own shares, so that also applies to mortgage credit institutions. This applies in advance to cooperative funds, so it is nothing new compared to the cooperative funds, but now it will also apply to mortgage banks. It could be, for example. if Nykredit became a limited liability company. Then they were not allowed to sit and recommend to their customers that they borrow money and then buy shares in Nykredit. We really think this is very healthy, because it is not fair if you sit and give such advice that you have to have customers buy shares in your own company and that they then borrow money for it and thus take a great risk. There are some clear incentive problems in this way to encourage investment of customers' money in their own limited liability company. The consultation has generally been positive. There are people around who know about this, primarily from the sector itself, and they have reported back positively, and there are among other things. expressed support for the proposed initiatives to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. I am once again pleased that the financial sector recognises the need to strengthen the efforts to combat money laundering, which is of course a major problem for the Danish financial sector and for Denmark's reputation at the moment. I think it would be a good step to make a stronger effort if we adopt this bill. We still have a great deal of work to do in order to clean up the financial sector, and more things have yet to be voted through, and we are currently negotiating to strengthen the FSA. This will also be extremely important, but the adoption of the legislative proposal here will certainly be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319154313	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319154329	The debate is open. Sir. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319154345	Thank you for that, President. It is quite true, as has been said, that we are continuing the migration of legislative proposals relating to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. This then concerns an EU directive, namely the fifth money laundering directive, from which we first implement a number of the proposals. Secondly, we are implementing so little more elements of the agreement that was also the basis for the previous draft law, namely the agreement that a broad majority of Parliament's parties entered into here in September 2018, also on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. As far as the first part is concerned, that is to say, with the EU directive, which is the fifth money laundering directive, there are a whole series of elements that are now being introduced into the law. It acts among other things. to guard the financial system against abuse by people who want to launder money. We extend the scope of the law, so that among other things: art dealers, digital wallet providers and virtual currency exchange providers and ordinary means of payment are now also included in it. We ensure or at least make an attempt to ensure that the financial system is not misused for money laundering or terrorist financing by including these providers of, for example, exchange between virtual and ordinary currency in the requirements of the law on money laundering, as well as the obligation to inform and inform customers about who they are. In addition, there are a few proposals included in our agreement of September 2018, which, of course, concerns the fight against money laundering. The proposal is about banning the use of 500 euro notes in Denmark and also a requirement for documented follow-up on enquiries in companies and companies when it comes to whistleblowers. All in all, this is an excellent proposal, which is entirely in line with the Social Democrats' wish that we should have both a much stronger response to and prevention and the fight against money laundering and a much stronger defence against money laundering.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319154610	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319154624	I would like to go a little further in relation to the debate we had on the previous legislative proposal, L 189, because, as I said earlier, these three legislative proposals we are discussing are inevitably very much connected. On the one hand, it is the substance of the agreement within the financial conciliation circle, and on the other hand, it is a number of the initiatives that the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Morten Bødskov touched on the recommendations of the report we had made to make the area better equipped for future challenges. There we also implement a number of the elements of the bill, which is then called L 208. It is true that with this bill we will also have a change of approach to the use and issue and at least in Denmark the exchange of 500 euro notes. In the Danish People's Party, we are a little sad that at the same time we didn't get to grips with the 200 euro notes and also with the Danish thousand kroner notes. It is an indisputable fact that there is a lot of speculation going on, and it is a way of placing your so-called black money on one side. does it in these types of currency, which doesn't take up much, but has a very high value. Just outside Christiansborg here we have something called Christiania, funny enough, and it is estimated that every month about 100 million people pass. kr. through the cash registers, which then do not wear strips and record what is being bought. But there are 100 million. kr. the placing on the market of drugs, etc. at Christiania. And various television stations have been able to document how the transport takes place out of Denmark, down various road networks, and then you go down to Spain and Portugal and such places and buy some new supplies, which come in very easily from Morocco and elsewhere in North Africa, and then new supplies come up to citizens who go out to Christiania. So perhaps you could make it a little more difficult, and that could be done, among other things. by reducing the value of banknotes and thus making it more difficult for money smugglers to get the money back and forth. I am not going to mention here from the platform how it is going on, but it is not always easy to get the banknotes across the border, in case you are stopped, so they are placed in such fun places on the body. And there you can have a lot of money when it comes to 500 euro notes, but you can certainly do so when it comes to a €200 banknote, which after all represents a value of a thousand and a half notes. Well, that's a good thing, and I can see that Mr. René Gade thinks it's funny, but that's the way it goes, and that's 100 million. kr. a month. That's over a billion. DKK that drives out of Denmark this way year after year. I thought it was a really good place to do something about it. At the same time, we would also have something preventive done in relation to all the other so-called black money that circulates and is hidden under the mattresses in Denmark. It makes sense to look at these measures. And we just want to say from the Danish People's Party that this is a good start... what we are getting into now, with the 500 euro notes... but the Danish People's Party wants to go a little further. However, we support the overall legislative proposal, as we did with it in the past and also with the subsequent legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155010	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155013	I almost think I owe that. In other words, if I am in favour, I also have a smile easily, and it was the indirect image creation that the rapporteur used from the platform that just made me smile. It was not the substance or substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155027	It is so received in the same spirit thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155035	Then we stop the question here, we do. Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155040	This is then the second legislative proposal we are debating today, with the aim of strengthening the existing preventive action against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is an implementation of parts of the EU's 5th Money Laundering Directive and parts of the policy agreement of September 2018 on further initiatives to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. As part of the Fifth Money Laundering Directive, there are a number of very concrete initiatives implemented by the Bill, including: the scope of the Laundering Act is extended to art dealers and players in the virtual currency market. It is important that we have a balance in this area. On the one hand, we must ensure that the abuse of virtual currencies with criminal intentions is made more difficult; on the other hand, of course, there must also be room for innovation and technological progress. The reason why art dealers are taken on board is that it is also estimated to be a place where there is a potential high risk of money laundering. I have to admit that in this area we are over-implementing an EU directive or the money laundering directive, because the limit we apply to art dealers is DKK 50,000, and it could actually have been higher. But that's because we follow the limit we already use at home for the $50,000.; so there is coherence in things. However, as I have said, this is an overimplementation, and we are traditionally a little critical of that in the Left, but in this specific case it makes good sense. Managers of foreign trusts will be subject to the obligation to register real owners, because it is important that we increase transparency in the ownership structure of companies. There will also be a legal basis for introducing electronic systems to ensure timely identification of bank accounts, and it will also increase transparency with ownership of those accounts. From our September 2018 agreement, this bill translates another part of whistleblower protection, namely that former employees should not be treated at a disadvantage if they report potential breaches of the law on money laundering. As has also been mentioned, we are also imposing a ban on the use of 500 euro notes in Denmark. This applies to extradition, exchange and payment, and the reason, as previously described, is that we have seen the €500 note used in criminal activities. It is a very valuable banknote, which means that very large values can be hidden in very limited space. It is not prohibited to hold a €500 banknote, but you cannot change it. There will also be a reporting obligation for companies' day-to-day management and key persons. It is introduced to ensure that alerts on money laundering and terrorist financing are reported to senior management and will ensure that the senior management of the entity has the necessary and necessary focus on money laundering. These are quite reasonable elements, both that we have implemented the Fifth Money Laundering Directive and, of course, the tightening ups in the whole area, as we agreed in the autumn. And, of course, we in the Left support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155423	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155438	He just fell in spells for a second, sorry. Well, as I said, the proposal here implements the Fifth Money Laundering Directive, as well as the next proposal we are going to deal with, as well as a series of coinage of an agreement on money laundering concluded last autumn. There are a number of good measures in the proposal aimed at improving the efficiency of efforts and the fight against money laundering. Expanding is a good thing. In other words, water tends to run down, and money laundering also has to find its ways, and it is therefore wise to extend the possibility of supervising and regulating money laundering to include, for example, money laundering. trade in art and virtual currencies, bitcoin and others, because we have seen how money laundering also goes that way. It is also good that some rules are being tightened up in relation to reporting upwards in the system. As I understand the bill, it matters to some of the messages, for example. in the past has not gone further upwards, e.g. as in the Danske Bank case. It gets sharper, so that if problems of this nature are reported, it should be more reported upwards to the leading layers of the company. I think that is a good thing when it comes to responsibility later on. Then there is also a strengthening of the protection of whistleblowers, which I think seems reasonable, even if further steps could be envisaged. Finally, we are also positive about the proposal to ban the use of 500 euro banknotes. One might then ask oneself how much this ban works, when one can then take across the border and in many other countries still use these banknotes, but one can hope that it has an effect. After all, we share the wish that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party should also take a look at our own large banknotes to see whether it was time to abolish them, or whether, as has been done in Sweden, we might soon have to make a change of currency. When Sweden carried out the money exchange, it turned out that there was a great deal of money that was not exchanged, i.e. cash, because the people in question could not answer where they came from, and in this way a billion-dollar sum was wiped out, as far as I remember, which could have a criminal background. There is a small element in the bill which deals with politically exposed people. After all, we were somewhat critical of the law adopted earlier, because it was rather unclear about the precise definition of politically exposed persons. As far as I can see, this is a very small detail in relation to that area, but it may be that either here or in relation to a question, the Minister can explain whether it has any significance whatsoever with the change that is taking place there. Now we are dealing with three money laundering proposals today, and of course they have consequences for companies, as is also apparent from the financial cost statements of the legislative proposals, but they also have some costs for the authorities that will be entrusted with additional tasks in connection with further reporting and other matters. I know that there are negotiations going on to add additional funds... we're discussing both tax authorities, and we're discussing the FSA... but, in general, I think there's a problem in we adopting these rather comprehensive law complexes about money laundering over and over again. As far as I can read from both that and the other legislative proposal, it is said that it can be resolved within the existing framework, and it is a bit of a challenge, when you continue to assign new tasks and more complicated supervision, to expect it to happen within the same framework. So I very much hope that the negotiations that are going on, whether supervision can lead to it being lifted there. However, in general terms, when we deal with these legislative proposals, we should also deal with the economic aspect of the authorities. Because we know very well that if you have to solve many more tasks with the same number of employees, then the quality of the task solution is usually worse. So it was just a warning flag.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155934	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319155941	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is necessary to tighten up legislation and control in the financial sector due to some very boring cases of money laundering and crime. Money derived from these activities can very easily end up as a financing of terror. The draft law implements parts of the Fifth Money Laundering Directive and parts of the Political Agreement of September 2018. The aim is to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is proposed that the law on money laundering be extended to art dealers and players in the virtual currency market, as it is estimated that there is a potential risk of money laundering here too. Rules and measures are also proposed to help ensure that the register of real owners is always up-to-date and transparent. In addition, the use of 500 euro banknotes is prohibited. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160046	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160056	Thank you. In the alternative, we support the bill. Generally speaking, these financial sector regulations over the years that we are currently in, it is always a question for us whether we are doing enough. But I think it is very gratifying that we in the Danish Parliament stand guard that something must be done now. I think the bill is fine. I believe that the only thing we are going to dive into, in addition to the fine review that has been carried out by my fellow rapporteurs, is a few comments from Interfolk Samvirke and Oxfam IBIS, among others. of an opportunity not to give an address, but that it is enough to indicate the country in which you have a business. There may be something about you being able to bypass the rules and get out of it if you have intentions about it. Then there is the fact that if you do not register, you will be forced to disband companies as you rightly should. Fines are recommended from some agencies. It's just before I say it could be okay with a compulsive solution. This is one of the things we want to look at in committee, but in general we are positive about the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160204	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160210	Thank you. On the radical side, too, we are positive about implementing this directive. We are delighted, and it is almost sweet music in our ears, it is the highlight of the day that both the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten stand and can see how incredible the benefits of the European Union exist, that the European Union is united in combating this cross-border crime, and that it is indeed good that we have that institution in a strong version. We also welcome this in the Radical Left. And then I just want to say that I quite agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted in that there is a need for additional funding for the FSA. This is also one of the things we have proposed and are fighting for in the current negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160254	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160304	The bill here implements the fifth money laundering directive, and it goes without saying that this is also something that has been the focus of the European Union for many years now, and very good legislation has come into being. Of course, there is also ongoing discussion, not only about whether we have enough legislation, but also about whether we are doing it in the right way. Because there is a lot to keep track of, both for politicians in the Danish Parliament and that is our own problem, you might say "but also for companies and financial institutions." With regard to some of the things that we have also discussed in the conciliation circle, I would like to mention this with the €500 note. In SF we are also open to look at other major notes. There is a discussion going on right now about the cashless society. We are against trying to phase out more and more the ability to pay with cash in general, but on the other hand there is no reason to have very large banknotes flourishing in Danish society. Another thing that we are getting right with this proposal, and which we think is a very good thing, is the reporting obligation. One can say that it is strange that you have a lot of rules about compliance • you have compliance • rules that it is the management that has to deal with, for example. money laundering risks and so far we have not had a reporting obligation; that is, if you have a knowledge, you must pass it on. We're gonna get that right now. Something that we had also proposed in the SF, and which we are very pleased to see, is that the whistleblower reports that are coming will actually be followed up. We must not find ourselves in a situation where we say: 'Well, we had never heard of that; that information had not come to us.' Then there is also what we have been discussing for some years now, namely real owners. And it is broader than money laundering, it is tax evasion, tax havens, etc., and we have unfortunately seen countless examples of this, that is to say, we can move large sums of money through very intricate manoeuvres. And it can be completely imperceptible, even for authorities, even for the best diggers' journalists, to follow the cash flows to their final destination because there is a possibility of simply hiding. We are in the process of getting this right. I also think it is good that trusts, which we do not really know in Danish legislation and which are such a commonwealth phenomenon, should also be subject to the fact that we simply need to know who is ultimately behind this. All in all, we are very happy with this bill and, of course, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160632	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then it's the Conservative People's Party, sir. Anders Johansson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160639	Thank you. The legislative proposal here, as several rapporteurs have already said, aims to implement parts of the EU's Fifth Money Laundering Directive, which is about preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. After all, what this is all about is extending some of the areas of use, so that the money laundering law will include art dealers and virtual market players. I think that is very sensible, because criminals are creative and, when it becomes more difficult to launder one place, there is, of course, a tendency or at least a risk for money laundering to move to other areas. That is why it is good that we are spreading the demands so that it becomes more difficult to find gaps in the regulation for criminals. The change also provides for greater transparency in terms of ownership structure, making it easier to identify the real owners. It is also a very good move. It is clear that it must of course be possible for financial companies to identify the real owners, so that they can gain a greater level of customer knowledge, so that we avoid these cases where you do not know your customers properly. In addition, we are imposing a ban on 500 euro notes because they have a very high value and therefore also entail the risk of being abused by criminals to move values around or to store large values. In the Conservative People's Party, we want a tough line and strict sanctions against those who do not comply with the rules and, either intentionally or through negligence, help to support the financing of crime or terrorist financing. This is, of course, unacceptable, and that is why we also support the rigours that we have both discussed in the previous draft law, in this draft law, and which we will be discussing in the next legislative proposal. We support the tight course that is being set up and we support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160839	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and can give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319160852	Thank you for the comments and support for the bill. The overall aim of the draft law is to implement actions that strengthen the fight against and fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. The bill implements parts of the fifth EU money laundering directive and parts of the political agreement we made in September on initiatives to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. There has been broad support for the draft law in the consultation from the sector and other stakeholders, and we are, of course, pleased about that. The draft law extends the scope of the law on money laundering to art dealers and players in the virtual currency market. With that enlargement, we will ensure a balanced approach, on the one hand, ensuring that technological progress can continue and, on the other hand, ensuring that the abuse of virtual currencies for criminal purposes is made more difficult. In order to increase the transparency of the ownership structure of companies and other entities, managers of foreign trusts are subject to the obligation to register real owners and to establish electronic systems to ensure the timely identification of the bank accounts of natural or legal persons. It strengthens the authorities' tools to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. As I said, with the bill, we will implement the September 2018 agreement. We strengthen, among other things. the protection of whistleblowers. The aim is to ensure that former employees who report potential infringements of the law on money laundering are also not treated at a disadvantage as a result of the reporting. Then there is a ban on the use of 500 euro banknotes in Denmark. This means that 500 euro banknotes can no longer be issued, exchanged or paid legally in Denmark. A reporting obligation is established for the day-to-day management of companies and key persons, consisting of reporting alerts on money laundering and terrorist financing to the company's top management body. This ensures that there is a high focus on money laundering at the level of senior management in banks, and therefore management must also be able to demonstrate how this type of warning has been followed up. In those words, I look forward to further examination of the bill in the course of the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161123	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161138	We are opening with the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Morten Bødskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161159	Thank you for that, President. This is part two of the fifth money laundering directive. From the point of view of the Social Democrats, we must not go into a lot of detail about this and simply say that we support the bill here, of course. This is the implementation of an excellent directive, which, as it appears, concerns the obligation of companies, foundations and associations to obtain, store and record information about their real owners. This bill, like the others we've been through in the field of money laundering, bears witness to the enormous creativity that exists when it comes to financial crime, which is why, of course, it is important that we keep following it to the death and do what we can both to prevent it, to deal with it when it happens, and also, of course, to have penalties and sanctions that make people who have had their hands on this, hopefully, not do it again. There the European Union plays a key role, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned earlier. This is quite good proof that it can actually move and that we have institutions within the European Union that are able to ensure that we have good cooperation in both prevention and the fight against money laundering. And a key issue when looking for and not least tracing money laundering is therefore who are the real owners of the funds, companies and associations that may be subject to attempts at money laundering; it is necessary to find out. This bill regulates that. The hearings are again quite positive. Social democracy can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161343	Thank you, sir. Morten Bødskov. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161349	The proposal we have here is the third in the series of various legislative proposals which are now being dealt with first here in the Danish Parliament today and which are based on a large number of negotiations and dialogues that have crossed between the various parties here in the Danish Parliament and, above all, in the circle of conciliation on Financial Stability. We have implemented some agreements, and they have been implemented, among others. the three legislative proposals that we have now been through. The last of them is then not one of the very agreements we have concluded, because it falls within the scope of the much-mentioned money laundering directive, the fifth money laundering directive. I have also noticed that Mr. Martin Lidegaard of the Radicals found it amusing that the Danish People's Party supports a bill that has grown in a garden a little more southward than the Danish gardens. And it is true that we are doing it, but I do not think he should go to bed too happy tonight, so I can tell you that we have a fairly good Pocket Philosophy in the Danish People's Party, and that is that when directives are in favour and joy for Danish companies and citizens, we vote with a great heart yes, and when they are not, we are equally happy to vote no. And there the Radicals might get some good experiences of the Danish People's Party in terms of not just taking the whole palette, but sometimes also being just a little bit more critical of what it is. No later than today, it has come to light that foreigners can receive Danish daily allowances according to new rules after one month's stay, whereas Danish nationals cannot. So if De Radicale will promise the Danish People's Party to fight the battles in order to secure the Danish rules, Dansk Folkeparti will also promise that we will vote in favour of the directives that are good for Danish interests. And it's the money laundering directive in these elements that we are sketching out today, especially in this bill, where it's a matter of better visibility of the real owners of companies operating from Denmark, compared to both the business part and not least their tax. So we certainly support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161621	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We shall move on to the Left rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161631	Thank you. As I said, this is the third legislative proposal in the same area and concerns who are the real owners of a company. This is quite crucial, to put it mildly, because it is important to identify who is behind it, also in order to secure against possible money laundering and other criminal offences. 5. the money laundering directive increases the transparency of corporate ownership, and this is important. There are several elements in the bill: It must be easier for companies to identify who their real owners are. Owners must therefore have an obligation to disclose information about their ownership, and the real owner is he or she who ultimately owns or controls the company. This makes it easier for example. auditors to carry out regulatory customer knowledge procedures, as companies must disclose who their real owners are. An annual duty of investigation for companies must be introduced. The reason for this is to examine whether information about their real owners is updated. This makes it easier for relevant authorities to follow up discrepancies in company information about real owners. This is done by obliging undertakings to check at least once a year whether information about their real owners is correct. A targeted control and obligation to obtain, store and record the real ownership information is being introduced. As the companies etc. In the case of companies, the Danish Business Authority is responsible for the control of the registration of the real owners. If there is a lack of records or documentation, there is a risk that the company will be forcibly dissolved or deleted, and that is why it is essential that the information is provided. It's a long process that we've been through for a long time, and fortunately most of us are with it, but if there's a single one sitting out there who hasn't got it under control, then it's probably a very good idea to get it done or you're simply risking the company closing down. As I said, it is the fifth money laundering directive that we are implementing. It is quite reasonable, in fact, that we have tough rules to combat money laundering. Knowledge of real ownership is central in this context, and that is why we naturally support the bill from the Left. And I have promised to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161906	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then we have reached the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319161915	Thank you very much and the time clock will start over. That's lucky. I do not want to go into the proposal as much as has been explained. However, this is the second part of the implementation of the fifth money laundering directive, which mainly concerns the issue of the registration of real owners. This is an important area, which we have spent a great deal of time on here in the Folketing in the past, because there are many examples of company structures that aim to make it really difficult to find who is actually responsible when it comes, for example. collapsible, or in connection with money laundering, financial crime or the like. And, of course, not least because of the increase in cross-border trade and the economic transactions that are taking place, we have a responsibility to ensure that we contribute, for example, to that. The Treasury in other countries is not being leaned through structures that have their starting point in Denmark. That is why it is also a pity that the government has chosen what is called a minimum implementation, in other words that it chooses to do exactly what it takes to comply with the EU directive. After the scandals that Denmark has been through, or rather said, as our financial sector has been through lately, not least Danske Bank, it might be a good idea to show the outside world that we are ready to take the lead. Where we may now be most famous for being the homeland of the world's biggest money laundering scandal, it may be positive to send some sharp signals • also when it comes to registering real owners • that we are actually prepared to go further in relation to what we are absolutely forced to do. That is why I think there was good reason to look at some of the suggestions contained in the consultation answers from Oxfam IBIS and Interfolk Collaborate, which are also two organisations that have dealt with this issue a great deal over the last few years and have helped push on also in relation to the Folketing, so that was something that we got a greater focus on. And for that they should be commended. After all, they put forward a number of proposals which basically aim to make the registration of real owners more comprehensive and more comprehensive, and point out some of the problems that exist today, among other things. That because, if I understand it correctly, you do not require the date of birth of the persons mentioned, there may be problems, for example, with regard to: Name confusion. And since it is fairly easy to change your name, one could imagine that it might be speculated that it was called Jens Hansen or Jens Petersen and that it could hide its real identity in violation of the spirit of the rules on real owners. So I think there is reason to look at the proposals they make. Nevertheless, overall, the proposal is a step forward, a step in the right direction, a further step towards getting control of who owns businesses and business structures. And although I can see that some of the financial actors are a little concerned that it will burden them further, I think that it is a price that is reasonable to pay to avoid again getting into problems that we have seen in recent times. So on behalf of the Enhedslisten, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162307	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162314	Thank you. This proposal, too, aims to combat money laundering by attempting, in the future, to minimise the risks of money laundering, terrorist acts and tax evasion. With the proposal, we want to strengthen the rules for clarifying the real owners of companies and companies, so that we can always identify who is really behind transactions and companies. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162343	Thank you. It's gonna go smart over the cane and rocks here. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162351	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have already mentioned what this is all about. It is precisely the implementation of the money laundering directive, and it is a very, very good directive. If you are to put your finger on something, it should be precisely that we are implementing the bare minimum, and I think that Oxfam IBIS and Interfolk Samvirke have pointed out some of the things you might have wished for, about the size of ownership, when it should be disclosed, etc. But this ensures more transparency. It also ensures that exchanges can take place with other countries, etc. And all in all, it's really, really good. So the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162434	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162441	This proposal too can be supported by the Radical Left, as we see it as an integral part of the proposals we have dealt with earlier today in the fight against financial crime and money laundering. After all, my European-positive heart is pleased that the Danish People's Party can vote in favour. I have noted in the past that we are happy to vote in favour of the good directives from the European Union, and I am pleased about that. What is, of course, the challenge is that if there were no European Union at all, there would be no directives in this area. That is why some of us are also a little concerned that there is both a European family and that Denmark is also a part of it. We can fight our battles, and I fully agree that we must do so. It is not always the case that the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left agree entirely on what the Danish struggle should be, but that is fair enough, so it is also the case here in the Parliamentary Chamber. However, having a European framework at all seems important to us, and that is what the Danish People's Party thinks every once in a while, and it is always a step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162543	All beginnings are difficult. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162549	Thank you. I will be brief; we have been talking about this for a few hours now. After all, this is the implementation of the fifth money laundering directive in relation to the change of real owners. And as my colleagues have said, there are a lot of different types of companies, different legal persons and even trusts that we do not even know in Denmark, for which it should be defined what is meant by real owners. It is very, very positive that the European Parliament and the European Commission have become so aware of both money laundering, but of course tax havens and tax speculation, which real ownership is also about, that is, that you can follow the cash flows that can be moved around the world with a mouse click. If there is a hair in the soup, it is of course that the limit is far too high. There are a great many who are exempt from the requirement to state who the real owner is. However, I would like to conclude with something positive, namely that I had the Minister of Business in consultation a few months ago and was very pleasantly surprised to hear that it is the government's position that one should of course know the real ownership of all legal persons, because it is so crucial in terms of both money laundering and financing of terrorism, but also the race towards bottom and tax havens and tax evasion, which means that Danish taxpayers, but also taxpayers in all European countries, lose billions every year because there are some who cheat. So this is a very good tool, and of course SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162755	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and so it is the Minister for Industry who is coming up on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319162807	Thanks for the comments, and also welcome to the school class up there, or whatever it is. You have won the lottery here and been allowed to attend a debate on the law on commercial funds and the rules of the Fifth Money Laundering Directive. I think it is of great interest to a school class. This is actually an important issue, perhaps a little dry and a little technical, but it is another step towards getting a stronger fight against money laundering, which has plagued Denmark in particular, but of course also Estonia in this big case about Danske Bank, which is why we are doing a great deal of clean-up and ensuring that we do not accept financial crime in the financial sector. This is part of this proposal, together with the other two proposals which we have already discussed in this Chamber today. It is a question here that we simply want to know who owns companies. We want us to be able to track it all the way, so that it is not the case that one can be owned by a fund which is then owned by another fund, which is owned by a third fund, which is owned by a fourth fund, which lives somewhere strange, and then we do not know who ultimately owns the companies. That's why we have this proposal. Then we will have the right to have information all the way up the chain, who ultimately owns the companies and is what we call real owners. We therefore introduce a number of requirements on what to disclose and an obligation is imposed on all owners to disclose their ownership if they are requested to do so. This will make it easier for companies to find out who is the ultimate real owner and thus register the owner as they are obliged to. Customer knowledge procedures become easier. It will be, for example. easier for an accountant to implement the customer knowledge procedures that are now needed, as customers must inform the accountants of who is their owner, and then the owner must again disclose the next link in the chain, etc. Each year, companies must ensure that the information on who owns them is up to date and has not changed. It will be controlled by the authorities, and if it is not done properly, the authorities can ultimately dissolve a company through forced dissolution. We believe that the rules will increase the transparency of ownership and thus help to combat financial crime so that no one can hide, both in relation to money laundering, terrorist financing and the possible avoidance of paying the tax that is now required. That is why, of course, I am pleased that there has been broad support for the proposal all around the political parties, and I look forward to further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163124	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163140	We are opening the debate, and we are doing so by giving the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163207	Thank you for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Alternative, Enhedslisten and the SF. Let me find my notes here. It is about the need for due care in the field of human rights and the need for effective legal remedies. I have to say that I have, of course, read it extremely carefully, but it is not entirely crystal clear to me what it will mean in practice for companies. I see it that way, and we have understood it in this way, that it means that we need to report more on whether we are living up to, among other things. the guidelines of the United Nations and the OECD: there are inter alia: the guidelines of the OECD for multinational companies, and there is something here from the United Nations called "Guiding principles on business and human rights'. I have seen the proposal in such a way that it must be made more compulsory for companies to live up to and that they must report to what extent they do so and that, in the end, they will be able to be prosecuted, punished if they do not do so. The authors of the motion for a resolution will have to clarify this a little for a minister here who wants to be absolutely sure of what is actually being proposed. But I can at least say that, of course, we in the government think it is important that Danish companies behave properly, that they do what they can to live up to what can be expected of them in relation to human rights around the world, and we expect Danish companies to make an effort to do so. The guidelines described in the documents I have here do, of course, seem to us to be good. It is important for the government that Danish companies work actively with their social responsibility and that they help to behave financially, but also take account of the environment and behave responsibly socially. It is our clear position that Danish companies should minimise violations and negative impact on society through their activities. Businesses can do this by actively working with the necessary care, what is called due diligence, and so these are the processes that companies are expected to have in place in order, firstly, to be aware of what can be done and what impact one has on one's environment, to prevent negative impacts, to mitigate them and also to explain current and potential negative impacts on society. The companies that do so will be better equipped to deal with potential and current impacts on society in what they are doing. We do not believe that there is a need to tighten up existing legislation in the area of CSR, and I would like to elaborate on that. As recently as 20 December last year, shortly before Christmas, Parliament adopted adaptations to the Financial Statements Act, which also includes legal requirements for CSR reporting, so this is how to behave socially and it is according to § 99a a requirement that companies disclose the use of processes for necessary care if the company uses such processes. The purpose of the adjustments is to clarify and clarify the legal requirements for the reporting of companies in their annual reports. In Denmark we have the Mediation and Complaint Institution for responsible corporate behaviour, which is abbreviated MKI, and we have established it by law here on the part of the Danish Parliament. There you can complain about Danish companies that do not act in accordance with the international CSR guidelines, which also require necessary care. The MKI institution can therefore deal with matters relating to human rights, workers' rights, the environment, corruption and necessary care. The institution bases its work on OECD guidelines for multinational companies and UN guidelines for human rights and business. Anyone may complain to MKI about an undertaking if it does not comply with the requirements of due diligence and the institution has the opportunity to give an opinion if it considers that an undertaking has not complied with the requirements. Secondly, stricter legislation in this area will impose administrative burdens on Danish companies, which will be quite significant. In addition, mandatory due diligence, that is, necessary care, if you like, will break with the approach that we have had in Denmark so far about a business-driven community responsibility, and that means that there must be some requirement that each company, based on its own business, discloses processes of necessary care if the company uses such processes. If necessary due diligence is introduced, the company will be forced to identify and be legally liable for the risks associated with the company's activities. So to pick up: The government cannot support the resolution, as there are already legal requirements for reporting on processes for necessary care in the Annual Accounts Act, which has been clarified recently, as there is a possibility of complaining to the Mediation and Complaint Institution for responsible corporate behaviour, if the company does not exercise necessary care, as legal requirements to be associated with significant administrative burdens, and as it will break with the previous approach we have had in Denmark, about business-driven community responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163833	I would like to thank the Minister for Industry. Now a clarification was called for from the authors of the motion, and it comes here. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has asked to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163840	Yeah, where do you almost start? I was able to understand that at first we did not understand what was required by law, and then to outline that we have everything and that things are going very well. And it does so a little that I am left thinking: what is it then that the Minister did not understand if we could account for everything we have? What we want to say in this way is: what is it that we do the duty to have the necessary care? That means taking those steps before it is necessary, i.e. identifying risks and drawing up action plans. For that and I would like to ask the Minister to confirm me in what is being done with Article 99a of the Financial Statements Act, it is only that information should be provided to the extent deemed necessary by the company in order to ensure understanding of the development of companies, results, situation, etc. And what we want with this proposal is to make it compulsory for us to have human rights in business. So one question to part two: is that not also what you see in France, for example,? the same discussions that are taking place in Germany, Holland, Switzerland etc.? So it is not so one-sidedly administrative a burden for Danish companies, it is also a burden for other European companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319163954	Yes. Well, thank you for the clarification. I also assume that the authors of the motion will, of course, come to the floor and clarify a little more about what the proposal is about. I'm glad. Basically, I do not think that human rights should be the legal basis in Denmark in this way. I like the way we feel. We constantly take human rights into account in all possible ways, but it is best if we make legislation here in Denmark rather than taking international documents in this way and saying directly that they must now be applicable legislation. So perhaps this is not the approach we would like to adopt for it. It is perhaps a little bit to skip some links that we think should be in place in relation to our business regulation, where we like it best that we like to set the rules here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164046	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164048	Could the Minister then elaborate on what kind of links it is in order to ensure that companies do not exceed human rights in the countries in which they work? What steps does the Minister intend to take? I therefore agree with the Minister that the legislation we have today is not good enough, we need more, and that is why we are proposing this. The minister then has some other terms he wants to introduce. What are those terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164112	After all, it is the Folketing that makes the legislation. This is the link that I think should initially make our rules for our companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164122	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164125	Well, I think there is a broad recognition that we need to have some global guidelines because our production is global. That is why, I think, Denmark has signed the UN guidelines on human rights and professions. We have done so, we have done so, and I think that means that we actually have a responsibility there. In fact, I cannot understand on this basis that the Minister is saying: if we adopt this, it means that companies will be forced to answer for their activities. Yeah, that's exactly what we want. We want to force companies to be responsible for human rights violations in the production they represent. That is also exactly the responsibility that comes from the fact that we have signed the UN guidelines in this area. In fact, I cannot understand why the Minister of Industry cannot just accede: that, of course, companies must be responsible in this way. I think that is simply strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164221	I do not think we think these documents are so specific. In other words, these are not extremely large documents or extremely detailed documents. They may not be quite suitable to become legal texts in this way. It makes sense today to explain how things are being done, but we cannot support it as a government if we are to lift it directly into law without letting it pass through the Folketing and become a more detailed set of rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164255	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164257	May I just say again that it is very, very clear from the United Nations guidelines here that, for example, we are being told that we are going to have to do something about it. recommends that companies should have due diligence processes, that is, they should work to identify and prevent these human rights violations, especially in those areas where there are high risks. That is very, very clear. Other countries have also done so; France, for example, has done so. This legislation has been adopted. But please don't do this. Well, we're also saying that we're very open to discussing exactly how to do this. If the Minister is unsure how we can do that, then let us go into that work together. That is also why we have not fully determined what the judicial process should be like. But frankly, we have to recognise that companies must have a responsibility in relation to human rights violations, and that is actually not what I hear the Minister say here today and I think that is far away from how I actually thought our legislation was in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164352	I look forward to hearing the proposer come up here and just elaborate a little more on what this will have of concrete significance for Danish companies. Well, what exactly are we to be judged for, and how much and how? Because I don't understand it, and it may be that I'm the one who's not gifted enough to understand it. I think that we could have spent some more time in this proposal, as well as doing what we want to do in concrete terms, rather than spending a lot of time explaining why what we want to do is good, but without really explaining what we want to do. I'm sorry if it gets a little harsh, but I really don't understand exactly what it is you want with this proposal. I have read it very carefully, but it is not clear to me exactly what concrete meanings this will have for Danish companies. So I look forward to hearing it elaborately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164443	There are further brief comments. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164446	When Denmark took the lead in the EU with legal requirements for the reporting of social responsibility, the discussion was also, I think, in 2012, or when it was now whether what CSR was not a little fluffy etc. What exactly do you want with that? And yes, it was not a long enough step to take, but it was, after all, a step in the front of the European Union, where a number of countries followed us, where they said: at least you have to drop down in writing what you want, so we have something to hold on to. What we are proposing here is to go further than the due diligence rules of the United Nations. They are relatively concrete. I think it has to be more about whether the Minister thinks this is a good idea. This isn't gonna be a legal text tomorrow. If the Minister's party were to vote through it with a majority, then a bill would have to be drawn up. That is why, with all due respect, we must be allowed, as an opposition, to table a motion for a resolution without having a huge apparatus in our backs. So it is more to ask: does the Minister agree that what has already been done in France and what is being discussed in a large number of other European countries should we also have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164608	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164610	In relation to what my party thinks, one has to ask the Conservative rapporteur. I'm talking on behalf of the government about what we want. I think I can say that the government needs, in the first place, to deepen a little more specifically what it wants. The government, and I mean it, has difficulty in seeing in concrete terms what the significance would be if we adopted this motion for a resolution. I understand, as I have said, that the three parties behind this proposal want to see more focus on human rights in business policy, and also that companies must be able to be fined in some way, I do not assume that we are talking about prison sentences, I do not know that if we do not have enough reports of what we are doing to take account of, among others. Human rights around. However, I am very much looking forward to having it clarified, because it is not clear to me exactly what it would mean if the proposal were adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164713	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164715	Today there is a post in the Stock Exchange, which is about no world goals without a responsible corporate behavior, and that is among other things. FH and Amnesty, who are behind it, and Novo Nordisk's vice president for corporate sustainability. This is precisely where they say that if we are going to go further and achieve what is actually in the world goals, and now we have a government that says that you think that the world goals are a very good idea... this is an integral part of it. If, for example, you're gonna have to... We are also responsible for importing goods from a factory where there are slave-like working conditions. But we had to put all this in concrete terms in the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164806	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164808	Yes, and it is a good thing to make sure that companies have a good, positive impression on their outside world and are also aware of what their suppliers are doing and who you buy goods from, etc. We are completely in favour of companies doing that. I look forward to clarifying in more concrete terms what it is that we should be able to be judged for, how and what it is that is actually in the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164847	With this, we would like to thank the Minister and start with the rapporteur's line. And the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Morten Bødskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319164859	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. After all, there is no doubt that we need to look at how we can strengthen the overall front when it comes to preventing human rights violations and, at the very same time, strengthening the fight for human rights. We can do this at national level by means of legislation. This is already happening today, and we can also do it in an international context, where, on some fronts from Denmark, we are taking the lead when it comes to strengthening the fight for human rights and in other areas. Here is an example where Denmark has, in fact, been at the forefront of the fight to improve human rights for several years. As we read the proposal here, it is true that a number of questions can be asked. It is very difficult, and those who have followed the implementation and discussion of the implementation of UN decisions and EU decisions in Danish legislation know that this is not just something that can be done about a resolution in the Folketing. We think we should continue the discussion on this. And, as I read the proposal, I think, and I hope it is right to understand that it is about imposing this requirement on companies, both large and medium-sized enterprises, in particularly risky sectors, particularly risky sectors. So it's not all in, it's in special areas you want to look at it. I think that is an important point in relation to the discussion we have had in the past. That is why I think we should try to see what is happening in other countries. What discussions are there? Is there anything we can learn from that? It is true, then, as the Minister also said, that a number of initiatives have been put in place which deal with CSR requirements for legislation in this area and which can be looked at with benefit to supplement it here. But with those comments, the Social Democrats are looking forward to a further discussion of this. However, we would of course like to stress that it is already the case today that it is in Danish courts that this is happening if there is a violation of human rights and you actively contribute to it. And that is an excellent principle. But let us look at what is being done in other countries and what is being discussed. What exactly do the authors of the motion for a resolution think when they say that they want this to be done in particularly risky sectors, that is to say that they must exercise due care here? I think that is the key if we are to try to move forward with this discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165149	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165153	Yes, this motion for a resolution has just been formulated as a motion for a resolution. It is not a legislative proposal, and that is why, of course, it has not been discussed in detail in paragraph by paragraph. Because this is about requiring the government to work on this; that is what we are doing with resolutions. But I would really like to know whether the Social Democratic Party • because I am a little unsure about that, believe that it is necessary to continue working on this area, i.e. to strengthen human rights in companies in Denmark. Or do you not think that it is a necessity at the moment as such.?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165234	I think I said this very clearly: we must continue to fight for more people to work for the strengthening of human rights. And this is also true of companies operating outside the country's borders. Many of them take a great deal of responsibility for that today, and there are certainly many more who could and will be involved. I think it's also about them seeing the roads to do it. And it could also be some of that that something like this could contribute to. Whether this is the right way to do it is the question. So let us look at what happens in other countries, what kind of discussion is there, what methods are used there. As I have said, the intentions share the social democracy, and we would like to take a closer look at this, but we do not want to make it clear that this should be done precisely on the basis of what is stated in this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165326	There is one more brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165332	Thank you. In fact, a great deal is already happening in a number of other countries in this area. France is probably the most advanced, but there are also a number of other countries that have just made legislation based on the UN guidelines. There is also a lot going on in the European Union. So, of course, we can provide that for the rapporteur. We also have close cooperation with, among others. Amnesty and the others who work for this and push for it. So, of course, we'd like to get that. But if what is there is satisfactory and the rapporteur can see that something is going on that is exciting in the other countries right now, which we can go along with because I think that is what the Social Democrats could then also support such a proposal here. Now, of course, we have to look at it in the process. But is the possibility open to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165420	Without sounding too boring, I think the questioner knows that this is very complicated. It's not just a snap. That is why we are going to take a look at what we want to do, as I said. We would like to look at what is involved in discussions in other countries. Are we actually doing what the rapporteur is asking here in the other countries mentioned in the proposal? Can we learn anything from this? Are there other ways? That should not be denied either. We should not, of course, be blinded by the method of achieving the objective, as I assume we agree that we must do what we can to promote the fight for human rights, even beyond the borders of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165500	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165502	Exactly in this proposal, and I really think it's a relatively humble proposal, we just point out that it's important that we just say that companies should exercise this care when they're doing business. They must see if there is a risk of human rights violations in their supply chain, and then they must try to prevent it and stop it if there is. This is also the result of the UN guidelines. And then, in fact, we just point out that we would like to go further into a discussion on how we can then build up some legal processes around this. We don't even get to know exactly what it's gonna be. The reason why we are not doing this is not that we have not bothered to clarify it, but it is precisely to have that openness so that all the parties can discuss whether it is fines or what it is necessary to do and how we do it best on the basis of it. So this is just a small first step in this very important process. I would like to ask if the Social Democratic Party could not see itself in that. I imagine that the rapporteur's party should be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165600	It is true that, as a party, we have very, very strong shares in the fight for human rights outside its borders and also within its borders, if you look at the history of social democracy. Therefore, there is no doubt that we sympathise very much with the intentions of the proposal. One thing I might also think could be added to that was to ask the business community how they imagine that you could take greater responsibility without necessarily having to serve the big hammer to them first. So you could ask them how they think they can also take a stronger responsibility for the fight for human rights. After all, one can hardly enter a website for a Danish company today without one being able to see one description of CSR policies after another, and there are often human rights too. Therefore, you could also start by asking them how they could see themselves contributing to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165704	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll move on, and that's sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319165713	I was struck by the fact that the Socialist rapporteur said that perhaps the biggest hammer should not be chosen in the first round. Perhaps we could start there in an appropriate way to reflect on the motion for a resolution tabled by the three parties alternative, Enhedslisten and SF. In the Danish People's Party we are, in fact, warm advocates of human rights. In fact, we also think that Denmark can put its back on our act in terms of human rights there we have nothing to be ashamed of to say it out loud. The Danish People's Party has the basic view on this, that the best way to get to companies in particular the large companies, which are also mentioned in the comments, is not taking a big hammer and then start hitting the glass roof, no, it is better that things germinate and grow in the right order. If you look at companies today, many of those who are really big do so, of course, because it is already compulsory for them to explain a number of things, and many others do so almost voluntarily, because they know that it can help to improve their business, and they can actually make it more profitable by speculating on going in and discussing climate goals, world goals, sustainability objectives, environmental objectives, health and safety objectives and, in general, labour rights in countries where you, for example, produce some of your semi-finished products or get your raw materials from. After all these different places where you can go in and act, of course you also come to concepts such as human rights, which I at least think are quite well connected with many of the other elements. These are things that can make it important for Danish companies to describe their own company's policy. It can help burn them if you have to use such a word that some people like to use. There is, of course, some kind of per formance in it too, it has to be said, and then there is also the whole set of ethical values, which can also be incorporated in relation to this. I do not think that, if I am to be quite honest, Danish companies have something to be sorry about or embarrassed about or should think that they have not contributed to the processes that have been set in motion. So we cannot support the proposal as such. We want to participate in the debate on human rights, but we do not want to oblige the government to put forward a legislative proposal on the relatively loose wording; the Minister has mentioned this. There are quite a lot of words in the comments on the motion for a resolution, but there is not so much about what it is that you want to say in concrete terms. I noted that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, at least in relation to an issue earlier in this Chamber, has said that one would like to come in and look at something called legal processes. When I hear it from Enhedslisten in relation to Danish companies, some pretty big warning lights start blinking, and then you have to be careful, in our opinion. This is not the way we want to legislate against Danish companies. We believe that we will get the longest by using dialogue and precisely by making it visible to Danish companies that they themselves can get a long, long series of healthy things in relation to their business by taking these many balls themselves in relation to all the different initiatives that I have outlined before. So we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170118	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170121	The rapporteur himself is playing this game with how to get companies on the road. In fact, the reality right now is that many of the Danish companies, which are best placed on CSR, which do the best in terms of responsible company conduct, call for us to make better legislation because they want fair competition, one can say that they have the opportunity to have proper conditions for the workers and not be outcarried out by all those who do not actually have it, all those who actually expose the workers to some really, really bad conditions. So they want us to tighten up the legislation. As recently as today, it has been seen that Novo Nordisk is out to say that it would be good if we supported tightening these rules. So I think it should also be taken into account that many companies are also interested in it. And if you say that Danish companies are well running, it is in the interest of Danish companies in particular to tighten up these rules, because it also affects the global market. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that working rights are going well globally? Honestly, when we see all the cases of workers in acid to their knees and children's workers and all the things that are constantly seen in production, does the rapporteur really think that there is nothing to worry about in relation to global labour rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170244	I would just like to return to the first point raised by the questioner: Novo Nordisk. In fact, I think that the example of Novo Nordisk clearly illustrates what is the Danish People's Party's approach to this, namely that companies can and will themselves do not need rigid legislation. Then I would like to answer the second part of the question. It is true that we would easily find a lot of examples of how children's workers in Bangladesh are used to make beautiful cowboy pants for Danes and all the other things we know about: children running around in paints, decolourants, bleachers, acetone and everything up to their knees. Yes, there are plenty of examples of this, but I just don't believe that this is something that will be very changed by introducing this so-called legal requirement in Denmark to these big companies in Denmark and the smaller companies that profit from what you have described as particularly risky sectors such as shipping, food production, etc. They won't win on that. I think that is simply the wrong way to do it. We have to do this here in the Danish Parliament on the basis of what will be the best and most beneficial for Danish interests, and so it is the case that we believe that companies come the furthest with their own development of these things by doing it on a more voluntary model than that proposed by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170413	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170415	There I have to say that the Enhedslisten is probably a little more in line with Novo Nordisk than the Danish People's Party is here, because only today you can see that Susanne Stormer from Novo Nordisk writes in a chronicle that more robust legislation is needed in this area. She points out that exactly the legislation that France has introduced and which is what we are proposing here in the Danish Parliament today, it would be very nice if the Danish politicians would be involved in introducing. So I just have to say that the companies responsible are also calling for this. It is simply so foot-thicking that we cannot get this in the house now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170450	I think it is a little hypocritical to say that it is foot-timing in Denmark in relation to our way of dealing with a better human rights situation throughout the world. In fact, I do not think that is fair, I would like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur. In fact, I think that if you look at the history of Denmark and the political initiatives that have come from Christiansborg here at Slotsholmen and have been established in many Danish companies, it has been done quite well. And then I do not think it can be said that just because one company says something, it is simply a sign that everything is Armageddon and needs a big shake. So we do not buy it in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170529	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170532	What exactly is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party saying? Is there a need to do something, or is there no need to do anything? I hear a little from the rapporteur that it is amazing that everything is in place, that Danish companies are doing all the right things all the way around. At the same time, however, I hear that there is a need for further discussion. So what are some initiatives that the Danish People's Party wants to do in this area? As Mrs Flyvholm mentioned earlier, both the trade union movement and Novo Nordisk and Amnesty have made a contribution to the debate, where they believe that there is a need for more robust legislation in this area. The Danish People's Party does not think so. Does that mean that something else needs to be done, or is everything just fine?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170616	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170617	I actually think it's a little provocative, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. No one here has said that everything is fine. Now I have a good short-term memory and I think I actually mentioned very good examples of how this is going on in Bangladesh, I think I mentioned. I think I mentioned child workers; I think I mentioned various chemicals in which children are forced to work. Then I don't think it's entirely reasonable to start postulating it. But the question I asked in the same round was this: would this resolution, which is very loosely summarized here, be able to move significantly to the challenges that we have globally? There is the clear position of the Danish People's Party: no, it would not. We think we are going far, far further, by the fact that the Danish companies themselves are taking on these different agendas on the global goals, sustainability, environment, working environment and employee rights, including human rights. We are not doing this by making rigid legislation, even though we have to hear from the proposers, that we have to carry out some significant legal processes, as was said. There we have a different approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170727	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170727-2	So what I hear is that we should not do any further, that it is up to the business community itself. And we are seeing a business sector right now, and it could be fantastic to make legislation for that, so that there was competition up and not down in relation to these issues. We see other countries that have introduced the legislation discussing it. But we just have to leave it up to the business community itself, or how do I understand the rapporteur? It is not to provoke; it is to try to understand: Does the Danish People's Party mean we have to do something, or should it just be up to the business community itself, and then we are looking at something that hopefully happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170801	What has to be the clear aim is how to get the longest. How do you best achieve the initiatives you want to take? There is our approach to it, therefore, that we are going the longest by the positive role of companies. This is not achieved by making rigid legislation requiring what to write and so on. in their annual reports and everything else. It is therefore better that companies get what we think is right, and it is precisely that they can use these different efforts, which I have mentioned a few times, proactively to raise their own business both in terms of the company's own policy and in relation to their branding as a company in export markets and in relation to the ethical values and ethical values that they also have on companies like Novo Nordisk, which have been mentioned several times in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170856	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319170906	Thank you. I think that we have all witnessed some horrible cases in which companies have turned a blind eye and accepted things that one might be somewhat puzzled that they have no longer actively tried to prevent. I also think, of course, that there are also some who have involuntarily come into these matters. However, it certainly underlines that this is an important area, and that is why it is also good that we should have a discussion on corporate social responsibility and on how to ensure that human rights are enforced when we operate. I think it is fundamental that all business owners should behave properly. Of course, it is not too much to demand that you conduct your business properly and honestly and ensure that the common rules and guidelines we have at home, but also globally, are respected. The good news is, it's not something you can go and hide today if you don't. The punishment in the media is tough, and there is a focus on it if companies are caught not having control of things. It hits hard. Therefore, there are far more companies today than those subject to a legal requirement to make a CSR report that does so. And as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur said, it is an important part of the profile of many companies and part of the business idea behind it to describe the values one represents, including the fact that in one's way of doing business one supports positive development, whether it be in relation to the UN's global goals, social responsibility or labour rights. It is, after all, really, very positive that this is something that consumers are concerned about and that this is something on which companies are therefore also measured by consumers. Today, and it is, in fact, important for me to make it clear, there are far more companies than those we, as legislators, have imposed on us to make thorough CSR reports that make them, because it is valuable for companies to show to customers and consumers and their employees that they behave properly not only at home but also globally. The concrete proposal put forward by the Alternative, Enhedslisten and SF, we in the Left are not clapping in our hands. A number of people have said that there are some things that may be somewhat unclear, but it is fine that we have the discussion. And I would also like to stress that it is not because we are sitting on our hands. I do not remember whether I myself was rapporteur back in 2009 when the first rules on CSR were adopted in Denmark. I think it was sir. Brian Mikkelsen, then Minister of Business, and Denmark was absolutely at the forefront. Since then, initiatives have been taken continuously. And, as the Minister for Business and Industry also said, as recently as December here in Parliament, we adopted adaptations to the Financial Statements Act which clarified and clarified the legal requirements for corporate reporting on CSR in their annual report. In addition, I would also like to highlight the Mediation and Complaints Institution for Responsible Corporate Conduct, which can deal with complaints against Danish companies that do not act in accordance with the international CSR guidelines. And without being able to figure on the fingers, the institution has not been closed by complaints, and I take this as an expression of the fact that it is something that Danish companies are making great efforts not to go into carambola with. Had it been different, that there had been huge challenges and that there had been complaints, the situation would probably have been different. Then, of course, it is also clear that if all companies or a vastly larger sample of Danish companies are required to make these statements, it is an administrative burden that we are imposing on companies and, in relation to the debate that has taken place in the past, I would say that it is perhaps not surprising that companies which are now legally obliged to give up and disseminate a number of information seem to be subject to this too to other and smaller companies. I don't think it's the biggest surprise in the world. But there is also a balance in what administrative burdens we impose on companies in Denmark, and that is why the motion for a resolution does not support it. And I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party and to say that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171429	Thank you. There are brief comments. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171433	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur is also saying this about companies having to behave properly. That is true, and I also agree that there are many companies that are actually making a lot of money out of this. There is, of course, a bias in the case of companies that have large brands to protect, perhaps going a little further than the companies that are not so connected to a fire, and there may not always be the same attention to how it works further down the supply chain. So I still think there's something to come for. However, if you look at the annual accounts law and now I think that this very rapporteur may well be asked whether it is ■ it is quite clear, as it is now with the tightening ups that were made lately, that companies are not required to develop and implement policies to mitigate human rights problems and to look at consequences for the environment and climate. There is only such a follow-up or explanation obligation to say what you have of guidelines. What many other countries are doing now is precisely to go a little further in implementing these UN guidelines and to say that it is not really fair to say in the rapporteur's approach that companies working in particularly risky industries should also, of course, be imposing an administrative burden, but is it not a reasonable burden to impose on companies that it is a matter of basic human rights for workers further down in production?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171600	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171601	In fact, I think that the tightenings that were made in December, to me, to see addresses at least so freshly remembered the backbone of the central challenges. Because I think it is natural, when we make demands on CSR for our largest companies, that they relate to: How do they affect the outside world in their behaviour? For many people, it is an important element of a company's DNA to be very aware of what kind of action is being taken, given that when there are companies that step alongside, the hammer is falling on consumers, and I think it is a good thing that people are voting with their feet if companies cannot behave properly. This does not mean that we should not impose legal requirements, but I think it is very reasonable that we have made a cut in relation to our largest companies, which have the greatest impact, while we should consider very carefully what the consequences will be of spreading it further in relation to imposing administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171708	Thank you. Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171709	I think it is important for the rapporteur to say that we are also allowed to make legal demands, because I think that is also where we have come to do so. Now it is the case that both Amnesty and the new trade union's main organisation and now Novo Nordisk are also out to say that the annual accounts law does not actually go far enough. You can do this a little better, and that is what is in the proposal we are making here. Will the rapporteur not be open to discussing this, including with some of the organisations, and look at how we could go further here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171741	I am always open to discussing ideas and ideas, but I am also of the clear view that we must always have in mind that the things that become legal requirements and which are imposed on companies must therefore also be able to stand up for. With regard to the one-sided imposition of burdens on Danish companies, I think we should also think a little carefully about achieving what we would like to achieve. If you come up with burdensome legislation in an area that is important for human rights or the climate, do you risk seeing that this is now becoming an annoying burden for businesses and will you achieve something that is counterproductive? Then I am not sure that the matter has been raised very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171829	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171831	Now the rapporteur is very much concerned about this burden on Danish industry, and again I have to point out that it is not just Denmark that is talking about this. A law has already been drawn up in France, and this is being discussed in Switzerland, Germany and a number of other European countries, because it is precisely about taking the next step. We have seen how far we could go about volunteering, as we have done, and now it is about taking the next step, so we see that all the companies that do it right, very well • as there are a great many of us who do not compete on unequal terms, but that competition takes place upwards and not downwards. Does the rapporteur not think that it is necessary to start looking at what other measures should be taken than what we have done so far and the voluntary nature of the whole thing so far?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319171919	I think it is quite obvious that this area is in rapid development and that it is something that is becoming more and more focussed on, and I think it is positive that more and more people are becoming extremely aware of what it is for an impression one's company and one's doing and the barn is setting, not only within the company's own four walls, but also globally. But you just have to consider: what are the right tools? After all, that is something that the debate has reflected today: what is the most effective? Of course, I am always ready to discuss this, but I am just raising the flag from the start that making initiatives from the Danish Parliament that will be seen as heavily burdened and costly for companies, is not the best way to promote the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172012	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172013	Rival and rapid development or rapid development, I do not know. I had the first meeting with some French parliamentarians shortly after the 2015 elections, where the work on this was going on in France, so I'm really curious to hear these next steps. Because we have volunteering, we have the opportunity for companies to do so themselves, and yet we see things happening. If we do not then need these legislative requirements, and it is not only when the countries begin to do so that we will then also have the international organisations, such as the OECD or the European Union, etc.? I mean, when we start doing something, people move with us, and when we're left, others are waiting too. So is there no need to start moving on this agenda?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172102	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172103	As I say, this is an area which is developing rapidly. The only question is whether it is always legislative initiatives that are the most effective. In any case, I think that we should be aware of whether it is more quadrupled regulations that are the best or whether they are other tracks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172126	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Then we have reached the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172148	This is basically about how we get fair and proper global production, and I think that is what we need, and I think that is what we need to take political responsibility for. Because it's all around: It's the majority of the clothes we wear, it's the food we eat, it's our computers, it's just the computers we're sitting with here in Parliament, it's our furniture at home in the house, it's the granite that's lying around in most of our public squares. Virtually all this is made by workers in other countries, workers who all too often have to live with completely insane working conditions, workers who all too often get sick or even lose their lives, who are in acid to the knees, who breathe dangerous dust because they do not have proper masks, who are kept as slave workers, yes, who are threatened and exploited. Honestly, this is a crazy brutal reality, and we've known it for so many years. Then why isn't anything happening? I think it may be quite convenient for some of the companies, but also for consumers and politicians, to close their eyes to how bad things really are. But I do not think that is right, because every day we do nothing, we are therefore jointly responsible for the lives of other people, for their bodies and dreams, which are destroyed by their working lives. We are also jointly responsible for the destruction and contamination of nature and villages in many other places around the world to make the clothes we wear every day. In fact, I think that a great deal has happened in this area over the last ten years in relation to the rules that have come into the United Nations and the OECD. In particular, the United Nations guidelines on corporate social responsibility seem to me to have been very good, and much has been moved forward from just saying at the outset that it was up to the companies themselves. There has been a great deal of movement in relation to the fact that there must also be an interaction, so that legislation is made that supports what raises awareness of human rights, about labour rights, which clearly states that companies must respect human rights and labour rights, and which also states that they actually have a responsibility to be aware of where these problems may exist and to prevent them. So these are some very good rules that have been made. We have all joined them and Denmark has signed them. But in practice these rules just do not weigh enough and they are not being complied with, and that is the whole point of departure for us to make this proposal. Because we have the opportunities in Denmark to strengthen that legislation, as many other countries are doing right now. This proposal is basically about the need for companies to exercise the necessary care. It is a matter of responsibility to prevent human rights problems in one's supply chain. A little square, for example. Not good enough if you are dealing with mining or textile production, so just to assume as a company that everything is probably running fine. To be honest, the odds are that it definitely doesn't. Especially in those sectors where there are massive problems, one has to actively look for where there is the risk of human rights violations. You have to take responsibility, you have to do something to prevent those problems, and you have to stop it. Then it is that we say that if we have a situation in which we demand that companies should, of course, live up to the responsibilities that are also set out in the UN guidelines, and if we can see that this does not happen, then it is also a good idea to set up legal processes in relation to companies that do not respect the responsibilities in which workers who have been violated can turn. Then we must be able to run some legal processes that hold them accountable. In this motion for a resolution, we have not determined exactly how much it should be, exactly how much it should be, exactly how is it going to run? That is what will be the next step if you vote in favour of our proposal today, and then we will just go ahead and get the details right. But what is absolutely crucial here is that we adopt legislation, like France and some of the other countries that are moving towards this, which says: this is so important that we want to make the demands that this is so important that we want to do more. We have an opportunity to take that step today. We can take the lead in human rights instead of lagging behind, and we can open our eyes and take responsibility for the millions of workers who deserve a decent life. That's actually what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172629	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172640	Thank you. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Liberal Alliance considers it important for companies to comply with the international guidelines for CSR, in other words social and environmental considerations, be it the UN guidelines for human rights and business, as well as the OSCE guidelines for multinational companies. Everyone has a social responsibility to contribute to economic, social and environmental progress, and I believe that current legislation is taking care of this. On the other hand, on 20 December 2018, we adopted adaptations to the Financial Statements Act, which also includes legal requirements for CSR reporting and due diligence, and we have a review body dealing with complaints about companies that do not meet the requirements of the law on human rights, labour rights, the environment and corruption. Strict legislation and new requirements will impose new administrative burdens on Danish companies, without further benefits or effects in my view and in the view of the Liberal Alliance. At the same time, I would note that Denmark has been a frontrunner in the CSR field for many years. Denmark was among the first to introduce CSR reporting into the Annual Accounts Act in 2009, and both the EU and many other countries have been inspired by the Danish legal rules. That is why the Liberal Alliance sees no reason to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172818	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172823	It is to ask about this, to actually ensure what should be said about proper competition for companies that take human rights seriously, who are really doing something to implement human rights throughout their supply chain. Can the Liberal Alliance rapporteur not also see that, in reality, companies that do well are being given a more fair competition playing field if they make legislation that ensures that companies are not so easily able to look at human rights, destroy the environment and so on, and actually say that it is not easy for them to look at human rights so easily, for example. can impose fines or trigger other consequences if they do not comply with the guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319172909	No, I don't see that. As I understood the question, it was an advantage for those companies that are basically behaving properly, and that is why we must prohibit others from behaving properly. I'm having a little trouble seeing the logic of that. If it is an advantage to behave properly and you have a competitive advantage of it, then you have to do so, and then it is also the companies that deserve to survive and have the best situation on the market, and if then there are some who do not want to live up to it and thus have a worse turnover because they have a worse competitive advantage, then I would hope that they will die, that is to say that they simply go bankrupt because the other is so great an advantage. So I don't really see the logic of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173002	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173004	So let me get this straight. The reality is, of course, that many companies are saying that there are really unequal conditions of competition, because those companies that behave properly, who respect human rights, who do not exploit their workers in production, who ensure that there is a proper working environment, are being outstripped by those companies that do not respect human rights. They are being run out by those companies that have miserable working conditions that pay off their workers wildly. They'll outperform them. So right now there is extreme inequality in the market, since it is actually harder for the companies that behave properly to cope with the companies that are carrying out this totally insane social dumping in the labour market area. That is what we want to remedy, and I just think that, in view of the normal logic of the Liberal Alliance, we should also be able to see that this could be an advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173056	In any case, I would say that the question now makes more sense to me, because before it sounded like it was the reverse world. However, I still believe that it is a great competitive advantage for companies to ensure that their employees have proper conditions and that human rights are respected, because that is something that customers and citizens also focus on, and that is why it is a competitive advantage to comply with those things, and companies know that too. That is why I believe that the legislation already in place adequately covers the problem outlined by the rapporteur. Nor do I know in Denmark any concrete examples and major problems which need to be resolved by this resolution. I think a little bit: what is the real reason for this, because some major problems have been identified since it is being brought up now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173201	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173204	Now the rapporteur says that it can be a competitive advantage to live up to human rights, but one hears companies say that it is not because they are experiencing downward competition from other companies. This will be a burden. That is why we need legislation that means that the bottom is, as it were, lifted. This is because companies compete on the global market and produce on the global market. It's not about what's going on across the canal. It's about what's going on around the world when companies have their value chains around the world. So I would really like to hear more about this about us not doing anything because we have been a pioneer in the past. Does the rapporteur still think that Denmark is a leading country in terms of legislation when it comes to human rights and professions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173300	Yeah, I mean that. I note that other countries look to Denmark and use Denmark as a model and try to live up to what is happening in Denmark in this area. And I would also like to ask what kind of companies are asking for this proposal. The rapporteur says that there are companies that want this. What kind of companies are asking for this further regulation? Then there's this whole thing about it being the whole world. Does the rapporteur think that, because we are sharpening it here in Denmark, where there are really little problems in this area, we are resolving these problems in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173344	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173345	Which companies? In the past, there has been quoted from the debate in Børsen today, where one of Denmark's major companies Novo Nordisk says that more robust legislation is needed in this area. The reporting requirement alone will not ensure that companies work systematically and focused on taking due care. So there is certainly a company there that is calling for it. And then again I just have to ask: is the legislation they have introduced in France less ambitious than the Danish voluntary guidelines we have right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173419	I do not know the legislation specifically in France, but I really do not see the problems in Denmark, I have to say that. And I think that the legislation that is already in place covers the problems that are being described.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173438	No one else has asked for short remarks, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the radical rapporteur, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173457	Thank you very much, President. Thank you to the authors for an exciting proposal and a necessary proposal. We are fully aware that in this area there is room for improvement and that improvements are needed. So far, so good. Having said that, it is also necessary to say that this is an incredibly complex area and a difficult area, because just as we can agree quickly on the purpose, namely to strengthen the work of Danish companies to promote human rights throughout the value chain, also outside the country's borders and all the way back, and equally obvious it is that it is one of the ways in a globalised world to be able to fight for values that are Danish, outside the country's borders, just as difficult and just as many delicate balances are there when it comes to practice. Some of them have already been mentioned. So, to what extent should we impose rules on Danish companies and, can we say, laws and burdens which are not imposed on companies in other countries? And to what extent will it affect the competitiveness of those companies? We are risking what we know in the area of climate change, namely that too high, for example. CO2 Conversely, we would like to impose a certain tax in order to promote energy efficiency and so on. So it is in this area. We therefore believe that, if we are to promote this, it will be essential to have a very direct dialogue with the business partners. And it is quite right, as the proposers have already said today, that many Danish companies have come a long way with this and want to move forward, but unfortunately I also think it is true that there are many companies that are not that far behind it. That is probably why the proposers are putting forward the proposal. How do we ensure that this is something that helps to open the eyes of those companies to the potentials that also lie in starting to make these demands? How far do you have to go? Are we going to impose penalties in such a more traditional criminal sense, or are they financial sanctions, or are we going to have more guidance to make some of these things happen? As several speakers have pointed out, this is not clear from the motion for a resolution. That has not been the intention either, we hear. We may want to promote a discussion on this, that is to say on objectives and means of promoting it. I think that is absolutely fair. In any case, we are ready to take this dialogue, both with the proposers and also with the Danish business community. One of the things that is quite obvious to have more clarity about is precisely how far you are in other European countries. It appears that France has made good progress, and it is then being prepared at other levels. It is clear that it would certainly be delicious if this were something that could be done at European level, in other words, if we could have a common European understanding of how we deal with it here. There is, of course, a little on the way to talking about, at least in the climate and the environment, whether you can imagine making some more general rules here. Would it not be possible to do something of the same in the field of human rights? It's not to stumble off this national proposal, but because of course everything else will have a greater effect and also completely eliminate or at least greatly minimize the challenges of introducing procedures and requirements for Danish companies, which are not done for others. So we are going to propose, also on the basis of what has been said by the other parties, that, in the light of this debate, the proposers might consider whether we could agree on a report if not a majority, so at least a large minority in the current Parliament, so that this is something that can then be implemented after a parliamentary election and go a little further into what the first steps are, and how quickly we can proceed in this area. We have the intention, but also some questions that one can hear, in relation to how quickly and where and how to proceed and how to proceed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173908	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319173909	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think it is nice now to hear a slightly more accommodating approach to this, and neither is it because I am going to write off a report, which I am sure we can easily do. But I would really like to hear whether radicals could not just vote for what they are now. Indeed, what we are pointing to here is simply that we want to implement the United Nations guidelines on companies and human rights, which we have already signed. They point out quite clearly how to handle this, namely due diligence. That is one of the things we would like to see introduced. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is a reasonable responsibility, like saying: well, companies working in high-risk industries must also have policies on how to reduce the number of human rights violations? That is, in fact, just what we are proposing. And the details of how to screw this up with the legal processes, we can take round two. So could the Radicals simply not support the proposal as it stands? I do not think it is so extremely complex or binding in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174025-2	In any case, we can support the intention. But what is the difference between the various UN resolutions to which the rapporteur refers and then introducing them as a law in a Danish context is, of course, that these are global agreements that are not legally binding in this way. That is what the proposers are proposing for them to be in Denmark. And I do not think that we can simply say yes to this without realising what financial costs we are imposing on companies and what penalties we think companies should be penalised, if I may say so. In other words, there are some rather big questions where, I think, we need to take a deep breath and say: can we not have a little more clarity about that? Well, I don't want to deny it at all. Today, in order to be completely open and honest, we had a long discussion in the radical group, and everyone agrees that it is in this direction that we want to do. But we also have such fairly basic principles in the radical group that we would like to have clarity about both the economic consequences and the legal consequences before we impose, if I may say so, whether it is citizens or companies or some others in Danish society, a particular piece of legislation. So it is not for such to be paternal or formalistic, but more on the basis of a real interest in what it is that one could imagine was realistic to implement here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174143	Mrs. Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174144	I think that's fine. I would like to thank the rapporteur for being so open about this, because I think this is an insanely important discussion. It is moving in a lot of other countries, and I hope we can make it do that in Denmark as well. My interest is just that we move as quickly as possible. That is also why we have formulated the motion for a resolution here, I think, rather pragmatically in saying: we are taking up some of what is happening in many other countries, and it is not so forceful exactly what the legal effects of it should be. We can work on that together, so I hope we can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174224	In other words, some of what I hear today is that one might perhaps agree on a process in which one says: we would like to have examined them and the things and clarify them and those things with a view to and so on. etc. Then we will certainly be able to see ourselves in it. So it is not an attempt to tighten up speed or process, but perhaps more an expression of a desire to learn a little more about what process we have to go through before we can actually adopt it here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174249	No one else has asked for brief comments on this rapporteur, and so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174309	The SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslist have tabled this resolution because we can see that in a number of other countries we go further because we take seriously what is stated in the UN's global objective and what is being proposed by the SF in relation to human rights and due diligence, that is, due diligence. And so I think the debate today has been very much concerned with the question: what does that mean in concrete terms? In concrete terms, this means that we would go further from CSR, which can often, although not always, be very fluffy or, excuse me, with a Danish word very hovering, in relation to what it means. That is why I thought I would mention that we have a very good digging medium that looks at what Danish companies are doing in the world to put it into practice. And the Minister for Industry was interested in what it could mean in concrete terms, so when he has time, I would just like to read some examples from, for example. Danwatch, who follows a number of companies around the world. And let me just settle for two examples from the front page of Danwatch's website. One is that Mærsk continues to use this shipyard in India, which is so miserable and has dangerous working conditions, health-harming working conditions for their workers. Ships are being scrapped on the beach that flushes toxins into the sea. There are such wretched conditions that the yard cannot be included in the European Commission's list of approved yards, so you can only scrap ships there if you sail under a non-EU flag, and that is what you just do. That is an example. Another example could be that Bestseller has produced children's clothing in Myanmar under terrible working conditions and with threats and a salary of DKK 1.5. It's an hour. These are some of the concrete things in which we say that we could do something else instead. I was also looking into the management account of some of these companies. Does it say in Mærsks that they are proud that they are cutting up ships on Indian beaches, where people get sick from working and where poisons are flushed into the sea? No, it doesn't say that. There are the positive things that Færsk also does: higher fuel efficiency, etc. etc. All these things are right, but that is the core of what we are doing today. You can select for yourself what it is you would like to highlight in your financial statements of positive things you do. And often these are really positive things. But you can also just as company without consequences rule out other things. What we want is for there to be compensation for occupational injury. There is no such thing today, for example. takes place on a beach in India. So it's just to try to be a little more specific. There are different ways to do it. In France they already have the law, and in a number of other European countries they are implementing this legislation in various ways, saying: CSR is not enough. Those are too often just nice words. We would like some legislation in which we say that there are risk areas where it can be shipping, mining, clothing production, etc. What kind of pay and working conditions do you want, for example? accept? What environmental or climate impact will be accepted? You have to take concrete action and also be able to prove that you have followed up on it. Because today the greatest threat is, after all, cutting out in the media, and it can also be very effective. But that's not what to say, what we want. As a community governed by the law, we want companies to have the opportunity to defend themselves. So should our only grip be that there are media that can find a story and so rude businesses? Do we not also want some rules, a set of rules, so that you know exactly what you have to live up to? You can hear that there is no majority in favour of this today in the Chamber. I hope that we can move forward along this road at least and then try to find a common ground, because the nice words are there. I wonder if we could go one more step further instead of just not getting anywhere. We think there are possibilities that Danish companies can also use this as a competitive parameter. But, above all, it is also our responsibility in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174841	It does not appear that it triggered any brief remarks. We would like to thank the rapporteur, and we would like to move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319174859	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteurs and the Minister for the debate today. I must admit that I do not understand the criticism that a resolution is being tabled and not a legislative proposal. I simply do not understand the criticism made by the Minister, but we must take it another time so that I can try to understand what the Minister's position on the work of the Folketing is. I would particularly like to thank the Radical Left and the Social Democrats for being open to discussing this further. In my view, this is one of the most important issues when we are talking about international business right now, i.e. how we ensure that we constantly raise the standard of competition, that the standard of competition moves upwards and not downwards, both when it comes to the environmental agenda, but also very much when it comes to human rights. So how do we make sure of that? We have taken some steps that have inspired other countries in the past, but we must also recognise now that more is needed, that more firm tools are needed. There was a rapporteur who said that this is an area of rapid development, and to that I would say both yes and no. I mean, there's something going on with this discussion, but I can just say that since I got to Parliament in June 2015, I've been working on this area, and I've had meetings with parliamentarians from other countries where there's a job going on similar to what we're doing with this resolution; I've been following the French legislative process in this area very closely; I've had meetings with NGOs, businesses, etc., and what I hear all the way around is that we need to take some steps. That is why it is also a pity to hear that there is no majority in favour of going ahead with this, but that we have to wait for the business community to move forward, that we have to see what is happening through the way of volunteering and that no legislation can be adopted because it is inappropriate and so on, because these are the tools that are needed. That is why I was very happy today when I read the Børsen and saw the contribution from Novo Nordisk, the main organisation of the trade union movement and Amnesty, which says that what we have done so far is very good, but that more is now needed. If we are to move forward, there is a need for more, and that is what we are proposing that the Folketing should decide on so that the legislative work can be done. Because it is just important to say that today it is entirely up to companies themselves to say what needs to be included in these reports. It is as voluntary as it may be, and fortunately many have moved, but we must bring everyone along, because that is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has said about the very specific aspects of ship recycling, but that also applies to the textile industry. It was no more than a few weeks ago that another article from Danwatch on leather tanning was seen in India. We import soy for feeding in our agriculture... that production means cutting down the forests of South America, and that goes beyond the rights of indigenous peoples. That is also something we have been able to read about in the last year. So I think we should pull ourselves together and get on with this work and get some proper guidelines to ensure that all the companies that do well can compete on equal terms with others. So I hope that we will move it a little further in the committee procedure, and otherwise we will continue to press for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319175242	This does not suggest that anyone would like to make brief comments on it, so we would like to thank the rapporteur. I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. That is not the case, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319175306	The debate is open. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319175333	Thank you for that, President. With this bill, we will have strengthened vocational training, more practice in primary and secondary education. More people must be able to develop and use their abilities by training. That is the way to a good working life, yes, it is the way to a better life. Education gives you the opportunity to create more freedom and more choice. We must continue to ensure this. Our education system is one of the best in the world. We can be proud of that, but not everything is perfect. Almost one in ten young people ends up outside our normal education system. The reasons may be many, but one of them is that we have had far too little focus on the practice in our teaching system. We also see this clearly when we look at the application figures for vocational training. They are inadequate and should be much higher, and we must do something about that. We have already taken good steps towards making our vocational training more attractive, just as we have done much more to raise the group of young people who are without education or jobs. This is what we have done with the new preparatory initial training, which brings together the practical offers of one school, and we have done this by increasing the practical skills of the primary school. However, we are still not in the end because we need to strengthen the framework of vocational schools so that they can support a high level of professional quality and strengthen the search for vocational training and their implementation. That's what we're doing today with this bill. I would like to say straight away that this bill is very detailed and I do not want to go into all the things that are in it. The social democracy is pleased that we give the municipalities greater responsibility for the search for vocational training and that simpler and more coherent training courses are created in vocational training. However, we are also pleased that access to the first part of the initial programme will be extended and that a new basic programme will be established, plus GF+, and that there will be an opportunity to enter into an internship commitment between future students and companies. There are many things that can be pointed out here, but this is a very good legislative proposal, and it is also the case that vocational schools and primary schools now need to cooperate more closely so that vocational schools can carry out selected parts of the teaching of pupils from primary schools. Just yesterday, sir. Jacob Mark and I are on a school visit to Mercantec in Viborg, and they are at least some of those who are the premier school for this collaboration, and there we were just talking about this bill... about making more out of the educational practice assessment, the bridge building and some of the things we need to adopt with this bill. We are pleased that we are building on the package of measures to make vocational training more attractive to young people and to make our education system more varied so that young people can become more aware of the fact that there are other ways of working than through high school. There is a great need for this. Something else that is said very often in our education system is, of course, that we must ensure the future of the economy. We've been doing this with this bill for a year. We have not succeeded in getting it done any longer, and we are really, really sorry about that, because the re-priority contribution should preferably be cancelled completely, and we are, of course, sorry that we could not achieve that fully. But, of course, we support the bill. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they are also voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319175702	It did not trigger brief remarks. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319175711	Thank you for that, President. As our normal rapporteur in this area, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, has been prevented, I have promised to put forward the position of the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party, together with a majority here in the Danish Parliament, has concluded the agreement on •From the primary school to the skilled • Vocational education to the future. We in the Danish People's Party are both happy and proud of the agreement, as it can make a major difference in several ways to the search for vocational education and training, as well as to the number of people who receive a letter on their vocational training. In the Danish People's Party we were in the negotiations among others. It is also important to note that there is a need for more time to complete vocational training. It is therefore gratifying that we are introducing a so-called GF+, which means that you can have an extra 10 weeks on your vocational training. Among other things, it will: mean that adults who want to study for sosu helper or assistant can have more time at school. It is of great importance for us to be able to train some more warm hands for the care of the elderly. A lot of warm hands are missing, and lack of warm hands can be a bomb during a dignified care of the elderly. This has therefore been a high priority for the Danish People's Party. Access to GF1 is also increased so that more young people start on the first basic run instead of skipping it and starting directly on the second basic run. This increases the individual's ability to complete the training and avoid apostasy. In the negotiations, we in the Danish People's Party have also wanted to see an end to the way in which the education readiness assessment in the primary school works today. We see it as a problem that young people, if they want to go to high school, and most of them will be able to be assessed in terms of whether they are ready for high school education, even though they might be able to take another form of youth education, for example. vocational training. We are changing that now, and I am glad that we in the Danish People's Party could get the agreement circle's support for that. So in future everyone will know which youth education they are actually ready for. I therefore expect more young people to be declared ready for training in the future and more young people to be told that they can be admitted to eux or vocational training. This will also help to ensure that more young people take the skilled way to the vocational school. The municipalities are also given greater responsibility for getting more people to apply for vocational training. The municipal council is obliged to set local targets to increase the search for vocational training courses, as are municipalities with less than 10% of the population. In this context, it should be pointed out that the Commission's proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is a step in the right direction, and that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is a step in the right direction. Finally, I would like to mention that we in the Danish People's Party agreed to abolish the re-priority contribution to vocational training. It is a good thing that the government finally gave up. We in the Danish People's Party believe that it is important that we invest in education. This bill is also an expression of that. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180018	This did not give rise to brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180030	Thank you for that, President. Indeed, as everyone in this Chamber knows right now, there are some major challenges in terms of getting enough young people to choose a vocational training course. That is why I am very pleased that the draft law has taken some important steps in order to actually make more young people taste what it means to have vocational training. Right now we have to say that only approx. 19% of young people opting for vocational training. It is precisely in these years that there is actually a huge demand for skilled labour. Only yesterday I was with the Minister for Employment on company visits around southern Denmark, where we met company owners in several places who said that they had a real difficulty in getting skilled workers. So I hope that this bill, which translates several different approaches, will help us to see that, hopefully, the number of young people seeking vocational training will also increase. There are places around the country where you do really well. There are many municipalities, especially perhaps in West Jutland, which have a great many young people seeking vocational training, but I hope that with these measures there will be even more young people who will want to look for this path. And by that I will end by saying that the Left naturally supports this bill. I also have a message from the Conservatives saying that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180216	Nor did it, indeed, give rise to a brief comment by Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180221	First of all, I would like to thank you for your cooperation and good agreement. I think that what we are about to adopt is very good. I have a question, though. The economy filled part of the negotiations. We agreed to cancel the re-priority contribution, and then we also agreed to continue the quality pool. I went to a vocational school yesterday with Annette. They said that it is absolutely essential that the quality pool not only comes forward for a year, but that it is continued, otherwise they will not be able to continue all the many activities they have with bridge construction and attracting new pupils. We shall proceed to the choice of continuing the quality pool. What does the Left think about continuing the quality pool for years to come?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180306	I would remind you that Mrs Annette Lind also has a last name. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180311	Thank you for the question. I would like to say that I understand that, of course, the vocational schools may well want the quality pool to be extended for several years too. It is clear that in one way or another it also provides greater security for them. But it is now the case that I do not have a bag of money here on the platform today. These are some of the things that can be said, as we can easily discuss in the conciliation and conciliation circles too, but that also requires us to be prepared to find the money somewhere else for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180346	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180347	However, does the rapporteur agree that if you have had a level where you have had the quality pool from year to year to cover the re-priority contribution that has been made, it would be the case that if the quality pool suddenly disappears, it would be a saving in the running of schools and that it could be quite serious in the situation we are in right now in making it attractive to take up vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180411	Well, I fully agree that in this way it can be seen as if you have a hole in the economy, where you have to find money to cover the hole in other ways. So I understand perfectly well what the SF rapporteur also points out, and I would also like to say that we in the Left feel that we are doing a great deal to support vocational schools, vocational training, in order to ensure that the quality of vocational schools is also very good, so that young people also receive good training.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180441	Then no one else had brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180448	We in the Enhedslist agree with the intentions of this proposal. It is undoubtedly a problem that fewer and fewer young people apply to vocational training and, unfortunately, we find that fewer and fewer people are carrying out vocational training. It is just a month ago that Danmarks Statistik published new figures showing that in 2018 there were 10%. fewer people who completed vocational training than in 2017. And if you go back another 1 year, you can see that from 2016-2017 there was also a decrease of 10%. This is a very good reason for concern, given that in a few years' time we will be missing tens of thousands of skilled workers in both the private sector and in the public sector. Against this background, it is also sensible to work on policy initiatives to increase access to vocational training, and I would say that the proposal here contains a number of excellent elements. But I would also like to say that overall it can be difficult to see a really consistent and wholehearted effort to get more people through vocational training. That was for example. In the view of the Enhedslisten, a very clear mistake was made in introducing character requirements for vocational training. This has prevented thousands of young people from taking vocational training, which is why it may seem to me that some of the initiatives that lie here are something where, as it were, they go in and repair some of the mistakes they have made in the past. I would say that as long as the admission requirement exists, it makes sense for work to be done to establish the best possible framework for courses, in this case in Danish and mathematics and Danish as a second language, to ensure that young people who do not immediately meet the entry requirements, that is, the character requirements, can enter and secure the necessary qualifications so that they can be admitted. There has, of course, been a lot of debate about where the courses should be, and I would like to say that I can see considerable sense in the fact that adults who have to enter and qualify for adult vocational training have the opportunity to qualify in the educational establishments where they will subsequently have to take their vocational training. On the other hand, I also think that there is reason to be concerned about the consequences that it may have for the Vuc's that in this way business should be transferred from the Vuc's to vocational training. The other day we were a number of rapporteurs gathered at a conference organized by the Education Association and GL, where it became very clear to all of us, I think there was a great deal of concern among the vuc that bite by bit undermined the student base of the Vucs. So I would like to say that I can see the sense in opening up this opportunity for it to be placed on vocational training. But I hope that there will be a broad perception in the Folketing that it is important that we have very strong attention to what this will have as a result of the consequences for the vuc that have already been hard hit. And hopefully, if not now, then after an election there will be a political majority that can hold hands financially under the vuc's. I also think there is reason to note that there is a great deal of concern among the consultation parties about the proposal concerning municipal targets for vocational training searches. I therefore agree that it is worrying when, in some municipalities, you are down to 5%. of a youth year applies to vocational training. However, I also think it is worth noting the cautionary remarks made in some of the hearings that the target figures risk putting oneself in a situation where guidance is more difficult to function independently of institutional and sectoral interests. We need more young people to take vocational training because they think it is a good and attractive offer. On the other hand, we must be very careful to push the students in one particular direction. As I said, we agree with the intentions of this proposal. We think it has many good elements. There are, as described here, also elements that we are a little nervous about the consequences of. However, by offsetting the overall impression of the bill, we will consider it a small step in the right direction, in other words towards prioritising and strengthening vocational training. That is why we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180952	There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319180957	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. One way or another, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says that it is really important to get more young people to take vocational training. And yet Enhedslisten brings out some things that you think are problematic, so that you should not push the young people either. What will Enhedslisten do if you do not want to push too? You can push in many ways, you can push carefully. But does the Enhedslisten think that it will really be possible to get more young people to choose a vocational training course by just talking about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181039	No, the last thing guaranteed isn't. In other words, my concern is and I do believe and hope that most of the education rapporteurs share the view that it is extremely important when it comes to providing guidance for young people in primary school, that young people do not get the impression that because politicians consider that there is a social need for more skilled people, they should be pushed towards education that they do not actually want. In other words, we are on the wrong track, and I also have the concern that it does not actually work because young people are too smart to be pushed in the direction of something they do not want. So that's what I mean by that. That is why I think we have to ask: why is it now that vocational training is apparently not attractive enough? And there I think there are many elements that we need to bring into play, and among others. Vocational training is really pinned down by the savings that have been made. In addition, there is a lack of internships. So we must raise the quality of vocational training. We should not try to push young people in a direction that they really do not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181141	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181143	As I hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur, there is no push or demand. At least not when it comes to character requirements. That is one of the points the rapporteur made in his speech. If, however, there is no requirement of character, and we can see it in relation to general secondary schools, where there is also a requirement of character today, then it is likely that there are very many young people who end up in an education where they are simply defeated after defeat because they cannot meet professional requirements. And I would like to hear the comments of Enhedslisten on that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181220	In other words, it is obvious that these figures have also been reversed in different contexts in the past. When access has been closed to a large number of young people, it is clear that then the dropout from the training courses will be reduced, and that is why it may appear as if it has been done properly here. On the other hand, we know that thousands of young people are being cut off from vocational training. So I think there are a great many young people who would actually have been able to carry out vocational training but who are excluded from it, and I think that is a huge problem. Since this is the case, it makes sense for access courses to be set up, so that, for adults, we help them to get a grade level so that they can actually enter the course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181309	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181317	Thank you. Well, we are very pleased with the agreement reached on 22 November last year between most of the parties in the Danish Parliament, and the bill here translates parts of the good agreement. As previous rapporteurs have explained, this draft law provides, among other things: the country's primary and vocational schools are much better able to participate in these binding collaborations, and that is one of the things we believe in when it comes to getting more people to choose a vocational training course. We think it is too little that only 25%. after the 10th class chooses to go the way in which they continue their training in a professional direction. We simply need to be able to do better. It's not like somebody thinks this bill alone is gonna do it. There are many other initiatives that must also be taken. There is a change in culture and there is something about us all being better at talking up vocational training, but this is what we believe is a good step in the right direction, which is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181425	This has not triggered any comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181433	First of all, I would like to say that we are planning to vote in favour of the proposal. We are not part of the conciliation circle and therefore we have not had the opportunity to take part in the negotiations and make our mark on this bill. That is why I would like to use my speaking time to go a little further than the legislative proposal, which we support, as I said, and instead put a little emphasis on the fact that we believe that there is a need to think completely new. Because, as a former rapporteur said, we simply have to ask ourselves why vocational training is not attractive enough and why we are not able to reverse the trend in which too few young people choose vocational training. And there it is not enough to choose relatively small patch solutions. I was therefore pleased to see a recent article in the magazine of the Association of Education, entitled "Rive High Schools and Vocational Training Down and Build a New Youth Education." These are some thoughts that I am very much in line with. The article shows that Danske Gymnasier, something called Education Policy Network, and DEG-L says that everyone agrees that there is a need for a fight with a system where young people today enter a silo and where they have only a limited possibility of re-election. I fully agree with that. We need an education system that is much more flexible than what we have today and where there are not such thick walls between youth education. If, for example, the young person... after 1.g want some more practical subjects, he or she must be able to change over without having to start all over again. We cannot do that today, and that is deeply problematic. So the vocational schools and colleges are far too separate. Another thing that needs to be done about is that when young people have to choose youth education, it is problematic that they have to choose direction so early in life. The door slams hard in that feeling many young people have, and therefore many of them do not dare to opt for vocational training because they think that stx keeps more doors open afterwards. So they also mention this in this article: it would be sensible to postpone the elections, for example. until you are about 17 years old before you have to make a decision that is so big. And perhaps you should not make a decision that is as square as the one you are making today. It is deeply problematic that vocational training is still too widely chosen from among young people and that too many drop out when they have started training. That is why we need to be more courageous and we need to think completely new. This requires a great deal of work and perhaps even more extensive work than the conciliation circle has been doing here. Perhaps it is controversial to say so, but it is painfully necessary to look at the whole system of upper secondary education and not just turn on small handles. The proposal that has been put forward by several people is simply to have one entry point; to combine high schools and vocational training, so that all pupils start on a common basic course; that, for example, one must: the main course consists of different lines, which the students should be more easily able to switch between; and that they may have to wait with the specialization and with the internship for a subsequent further training. Yes, it may well be, it is controversial, and perhaps it is also revolutionary if one should do so in Denmark. But it is not so revolutionary either, because we just have to look to the other side of the Sound, because there, in Sweden, there is a system similar to that I have just mentioned here. As I said, the alternative is yes to L 199, but we have some anchors against this proposal. We believe that there is a great deal of lack of concrete action that can really address the problems that need to be resolved. And we believe that, in particular, the vocational schools, but also the primary schools, with this proposal, are being given increased responsibility without any additional funds being provided, and this does not seem to be sustainable. But let me conclude with the positive, because there are positive things, and that is also why we are voting in favour. We welcome the fact that an increase in practice is being proposed, for example by schoolchildren. can take their electives in vocational schools and that vocational school teachers can provide primary education. We welcome the fact that character formation and professional pride must be part of the purpose of education. We welcome the fact that this proposal extends access to the first part of the basic programme. There are many things about what we consider to be positive, and that is why we are voting in favour of L 199.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181942	No one has asked for brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319181953	We need many more young people to take vocational training, and not only because it is important for our society that we also have skilled people in the future, but because it is really great to take a vocational training course, and you can feel that a great many of the young people who come out after a vocational training course are at least those I have met are very proud of what they can and they have a great identity in relation to their subjects. Unfortunately, I think that many years were spent talking down vocational training, and then many of the young people and many of the young people's parents were worried about whether they are safe in the future if they take vocational training. That is what we are doing, and we must continue to tell young people, and we must make it increasingly attractive for young people to take up vocational training and show the sea of opportunities that are in the process of doing so. You can do a lot of things, and you can start by adopting this bill, which does some good things. With this bill we improve cooperation between primary and vocational education and training, the ongoing cooperation, hopefully in relation to communication, so some primary school teachers have to go out and become more skilled in vocational education and training, some of the elective subjects in primary school can be interpreted into vocational education and training. I think that will be very good, and I hope that the vocational training courses will become aware of this and take advantage of this opportunity and then it will be compulsory with practical/music electives in the training. Then, personally, I think it is good that the municipalities have a responsibility for the search. There are still too many municipalities that have not really established the good cooperation between vocational training and the primary schools. We simply demand this from the municipalities if we are to succeed. Now a little has been said about the fact that young people have a large drop-out in vocational training. With this we also say that you need to focus on the good educational environment; we know that is something that is important. There is more competence development of vocational training teachers. We know that teachers who are skilled also have an ability to keep the students where they are. Then you expand the first part of the basic run and create a new basic run plus. So I think it's a pretty good deal. These may be minor improvements, but I really hear that the sector is positive, and at least I think it has been very good. Then there are some discussions that are still waiting. We spent quite a long time in the contract circle discussing economics. Should the re-priority contribution be continued? After some arming, we agreed that we should not, because we cannot keep saving on vocational training if they are also to focus on establishing new collaborations with the public schools, and if those teachers that we develop skills must also have time to prepare and do good teaching; so that is really good. But in the future we will have to discuss whether we should continue with that quality pool, which is so important and which can be used precisely to make the extra that we would like them to do, and we will at least fight for that after a choice. I hope the other parties feel the same way. Then there are two games that were sent to corner kicks, and there was a good reason for that. What's going to happen to the bridge building? Bridge building is very important for cooperation between primary and vocational education and training. It was set up to change it, but I really think it was sensible for the parties to say that we would like some people who know the practice to look at how to do it in the future, and then we would have to discuss it politically after a parliamentary election. Finally, we also need to look at the educational readiness assessment and everything that young people have to go through in education, where they have to be assessed and where they are going and what is going to happen in the future. I think this will be a major discussion, in which the SF, at least as a starting point, takes the view that all young people are ready for some kind of education or training. We do not think that we should be able to label non-training units. It is our responsibility as adults to direct young people to where they belong. All in all, I think that this is a good agreement, which I believe will make a positive difference to vocational training and which will, I hope, lead more young people to go that way in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319182417	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and then we go to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319182428	Thank you. Vocational training is the way to many opportunities. The words come from office student Zacharias Birkholm Andersen. Zacharias, together with 14 other young people, participated in a panel for eud and eux students, which I set up in the spring of last year. The panel has been a huge gift for all of us who work in education, because the 15 committed young people have openly and frankly given their opinion on what it takes to attract more young people to vocational training and, above all, to keep them all the way up to the end of education. There is no doubt that these young people can go a long way in their education. They are smart and ambitious, and they are fantastic ambassadors for vocational training and all the opportunities that come with them. We need more like Zacharias, but that requires political action. That is why last November 22 was a good day, because after months of negotiations we managed to gather broad political support to take action to get more young people into the skilled career path and, at the same time, to strengthen vocational training. For a great many young people, vocational training is a wise and ambitious educational choice, where professional pride, knowledge and creative desire are key elements, where there are good opportunities to read on and where exciting jobs await. We must not only tell young people; we must also be better at showing them, and we must do something active and concrete to make this path clearer and more attractive to choose. This is what we do with the agreement •From primary school to skilled • Vocational training to the future, and the political agreement we are now implementing with this bill. I would like to thank all the parties that support the bill. One of the intentions of the political agreement is a dispute with the automatic choice of youth education. Today, primary school is very much pointing to secondary school, and many do not see vocational education as a natural extension of primary school. 73 per cent of a year chooses a secondary education, while only 19 per cent. of young people opting for vocational training. There may be many reasons for this, but one of them is that they have not had enough experiences with the practical subjects. Danish school students are good at communicating and telling, but we also have to show the students the value of what they can create with their hands that craftsmanship, care, care, commerce, service and technology are also professional. With the agreement, pupils in primary schools gain more experience with craft trades and insight into the possibilities offered by skilled training. As part of the bill, primary and vocational schools are given even greater opportunity to enter into binding cooperation, and vocational schools can provide parts of the education of primary school pupils. In other words, the primary school must nurture the craftsman's dreams, and there must be a shorter route from primary school to skilled school. The initiatives contained in the agreement must also ensure that new pupils in vocational training from the first day meet safe, attractive young environments with professional challenges and strong traditions. We will establish a new basic course in vocational training in the first year and there will be better opportunities to obtain an internship with an internship commitment. This is the time for the ambition of the agreement to be put to the test, and I look forward to following the further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319182737	No one has asked for brief comments, I see, and so we thank the Minister for Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319182803	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Annette Lind, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319182821	Thank you for that, President. With this bill, we will strengthen the well-being of our students. Too many children and young people today show signs of displeasure. Several feel stressed and lonely and depressive compared to the past. It is therefore also important that we get information and follow developments so that we can rectify and help them to a better everyday life. We also know that well-being is very important for what students learn and what they take away from their schooling. Good comradeships and a good school environment without educational disturbances are a prerequisite for students' desire and opportunity to learn. Therefore, with the reform of the primary school, a goal was also set to increase the well-being of pupils. I am very pleased that with the reform of the primary school we achieved a general goal that all pupils should become as skilled as they can, regardless of their social background, and that they should then thrive, and with the reform of the primary school we also made the first historical survey of well-being, and I think it is very good that we have then continued on both vocational and upper secondary education. It is an annual national survey of well-being which, like in primary, secondary and vocational education and training, is now also being carried out. That's what this is all about. There has been a lot of talk about well-being measurements, especially in the primary school area. There are some municipalities that have used some consultancy services for national well-being surveys. We're not gonna fucking do that here. It is so that it becomes a central well-being tool, which is made available from the Agency for IT and Learning. It is therefore also those who are going to process the data that I really appreciate so schools, municipalities and institutions should not have contact or access to the answers here that are transferred directly to STIL, The Agency for IT and Learning. I think this bill is a good bill. I think it is important that we look at the well-being of students. Especially, it can be said, for the students who come to the fgu, it is very important, as it is young people who may not have it at all, so we also have to look at what their well-being is like, and this is precisely to strengthen the well-being; it is to measure and find out what you can do better. I should also like to welcome the Radical Left here and say that they support the proposal, as we do in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183047	It did not give rise to any requests for short remarks. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183056	Thank you for that, President. The new preparatory initial training starts in August. In the Danish People's Party we have great expectations of new fgu schools. In other schools and educations, you follow up closely on the well-being of the students and whether they are well. This bill means that once a year we are examining whether the pupils in the Fgu schools are well off, whether they thrive in their school. If you thrive in your school, there is the greatest chance that you can also improve at the professional level, yes, in fact, good well-being is a prerequisite for learning. Of course, walking and hanging with your head and having a hard time influences the desire to learn something new. But who are the young people in the future Fgu schools? We are dealing with a group of young people who have had more difficulty than most students. It can, for example, be done. be students who have had a difficult professional experience and who have had too many bad experiences with going to primary school, just as it can be pupils who, for example, have had a lot of bad experiences with going to primary school. struggle with social phobia and anxiety, eating disorders or other problems. It may also be that one has been abandoned at home as a child because one's parents have not managed the parent role. The challenges for students at the Fgu schools can be many and differing in character, but it is important that young people are taken care of. If this group of young people is to thrive, it does not just require effort from the schools and the close relations that are around the student at the Fgu school. This also means that, with the new municipal youth effort, the municipalities must ensure that the young person is given a holistic approach, including the family, the community, etc. The municipality, together with the school and the parents, will share in raising the young people. If it succeeds, it will also be able to be read in the well-being measurements. Another part of this bill is about data ethics. Some municipalities have developed their own well-being measurements rather than using the one made available by the Board. This has led to a debate on whether schools down to CPR level could read the pupils' answers and use them in a context that was not intended. When the students in the primary school answer questions about their well-being, they should feel safe to answer and not be afraid that others are sitting somewhere reading, otherwise they will not get a very relevant answer from the students. Therefore, we are doing it now, so schools must use the well-being measurement made available by the Danish Agency for IT and Learning. The students' answers therefore in the future go directly to the Administration for IT and Learning, after which the individual students' answers are not reproduced. The well-being surveys will continue to show how pupils thrive in schools. Are they satisfied with the schools, their subjects, etc.? We in the Danish People's Party support this new way of doing so, and in the Danish People's Party we support the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183402	No one else has asked for comments on this, so we move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183411	Thank you for that, President. This bill proposes a national annual survey of well-being within the Fgu, as it says, the preparatory initial training, as well as the well-being measurements carried out in primary school. This is, of course, with the aim of following the development of the students' well-being in these new institutions, and it can be said that especially in these years, when we are unfortunately seeing more and more young people who are miserable, who are in pain in their lives, it is important to follow these young people in the new Fgu institutions from the outset. That is why, of course, it is a bill that we in the Left think it is quite natural that it is supported. The draft law here also ensures that the IT tool used is a tool that can be fully secure. And this is also crucial in ensuring that students can fill out these questionnaire forms without concern. I have to say that, as rapporteur for children and education in the Left, I actually believe that this is a tool which is really, really important for us to use, whether it is in primary school or for that matter in upper secondary education and therefore also, of course, in the new Fgu education. It is incredibly crucial that we keep a finger on the pulse, on how young people feel, and on whether they also thrive in their education, because if that is not the case, we also have a responsibility to do something about things. All in all, this is a very good bill, which the Left supports. And I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183604	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183609	I also think it is good to have well-being measurements on education in Denmark, most of all because you can then follow how the well-being of young people is such in general. I would like it to be anonymous that when collecting young people's data, it was anonymous and that cpr was deleted. Because I don't see what we politicians need them for. And the bill says that it's central to the government and very valuable that you have to be able to collect these data and use it over time. But I think it is more important to take account of the legal certainty that your data is processed anonymously. Why won't the Left be in on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183653-2	But the reason why the Left actually insists that it is also important that data can be collected over time is that ultimately we want the best, including for young people. And I have to say that, as rapporteur, I have actually listened to the advice I have received about it, and that is why I also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183714	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183717	I don't know what kind of advice it is... it probably depends on who you ask. But what is at the heart of it is whether you think you should be able to go right in where you can say: where do the children come from? For example, are they... from a exposed residential area and should it be compared to a well-being at a particular time? Because I don't think it's the government's job to collect data and then cross them in that way, so I don't actually think so. And there I just cannot understand that the Left, which is usually so much concerned with legal certainty, thinks it is a good idea for the state to store data and use it in that way. I'm a little puzzled about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183752	Well, I can say to the SF rapporteur that it is quite true that we in the Left are very concerned about this, including with regard to legal certainty and so on. I just have to say that I really also think it is important in many contexts that one can follow a course, including historical one. I also believe that in this case it has been necessary to maintain that you also have a CPR number. There we have, of course, linked things up to a CPR number in many contexts, which is why I may not have the same concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183826	There are no requests for further comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mr Enhedslisten's. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319183836	The proposal here, as in primary and upper secondary education, introduces well-being measurements on the new preparatory initial training. As a starting point, it is very positive that there is a focus on the well-being of students in our education system. This is so needed at a time when we are experiencing a growing distrust among young people, a distrust which, at least in the view of Enhedslisten, is very much linked to the culture of performance and the race of character that characterizes our entire education system. We need to take action to counter this in a number of different ways. In this light, we can benefit from well-being measurements if they are used to identify the causes of the widespread distrust and if they are used to find ways to increase the well-being of young people in the education system. The extent to which they have actually contributed to this may be in doubt, but we think it is reasonable that well-being measurements should also be introduced into the fugue. What you can be in no doubt about is that there has been a lot of wind about how the well-being measurements in some municipalities have been misused for individual registration of the children. The Minister and the Government address with the proposal here the criticisms that have been made and the draft law, as stated in the notes to the law, sets out a different balance between public access to data on the well-being of pupils and the right of pupils to privacy. However, I have also noted that in the consultation answers there is, of course, concern from several quarters that the student's data in the well-being study is not properly shielded from outsiders and that the students are not guaranteed an anonymity in the reporting and storage of data. That is why we are concerned about the element of the draft law which follows on from what Mr. Jacob Mark just asked about. We want that to be clarified in committee and, once it has been clarified, we will take a position on how we deal with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184056	There is no wish for short remarks. We move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184110	In the Liberal Alliance, we are in favour of the proposal's initiative to introduce a national annual survey of well-being. But there is also the matter of well-being measurements that they contain very personal questions about the individual's feelings. That is why data security has been something that we in our group have discussed in depth, since we have also been concerned about the certainty that data will be stored with great confidentiality. One thing is that it is confidential data provided by the individual student. Another thing is that it's crucial for the student to dare to answer openly and honestly in these measurements, and if you don't dare because you're afraid that the information is flowing, then we won't be able to use the well-being measurements at all. So we are pleased that we are also introducing well-being measurements on fugitive grounds, and we are gallant at strengthening data security on well-being measurements, so that schools, institutions and municipalities have access to measurements at a more general level, but not such individual responses. Of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184233	Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184237	Thank you. The government won't make replies anonymous and delete CPR numbers. It is as it is; we could not get it through in the SF, fair enough. I would really like to know whether the Liberal Alliance as a party after the reign, if there is such a time, you do not know whether the government will be reclaimed... will be prepared to make the replies anonymous.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184307	There are not many points where the Liberal Alliance and the SF agree, but there are still some, and this is one of the areas where we are completely in line with each other. Had it been to the Liberal Alliance we would have been alone in government or together with the SF had 90 mandates, they would have been anonymous answers, because we are just as concerned about data security as the SF is in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184332	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Jacob Mark another brief remark? No, he does not, and so we thank Mrs Laura Lindahl and move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184339	Thank you. The draft law provides for the introduction of a national annual survey of well-being in preparatory initial training. As well as the well-being measurements in primary and upper secondary education and in vocational education and training, the wish is to follow the development of the well-being of the pupils in order to strengthen the well-being of the students. Well, the purpose is to strengthen the thriving. So the purpose is good, because unfortunately too many children and young people do not thrive. But what really affects a student's mental well-being? Yes, there can be many factors: age, living conditions, parents' socio-economic conditions, the individual lifestyle of the student. The Danish Psychologist Association notes in their hearing answer that children's well-being at school is best supported by the fact that there are sufficient resources at the school in terms of time and competence of the employees, to see the individual child, to strengthen learning and communities, and that at the same time there is access to specialised support. They also note that the aspects that are important should be given priority before it becomes relevant to use resources for data collection, otherwise there is a risk of simply identifying problems and challenges that have not yet been created on the basis of which to deal with them. In line with the comments of the Danish Psychologist Association, we will find in the Alternative that if the purpose is to strengthen the well-being, we do not increase the well-being by simply observing it. The school leader's association also points out in their hearing answer that they do not believe that the well-being measurements in themselves strengthen the well-being of the pupils, even if it is formulated in this way. It says: "The school leader must once a year measure the well-being of the students with the aim of following and strengthening the well-being of the students. We also share the EEO's concern that the result of the well-being survey should be included in education statistics, as this may result in schools being ranked instead of focusing on solving problems. It is a pity if the well-being of children becomes part of further benchmarking and competition between schools. We have also seen, as previous rapporteurs have noted, that in several hearings there is concern about the lack of anonymity. Like many consultation parties, we therefore believe in the Alternative that the focus should be on the well-being initiatives rather than on uniform measurements at all courses. As a starting point, a student at fgu does not enjoy participating in a survey of well-being. We believe that there is far too much talk about numbers and tests and far too little talk about the well-being and general life of children. Having said that, however, we recognise that well-being measurements are a way of ensuring the well-being of pupils in educational establishments. We therefore support the proposal for a mandatory measurement of the well-being of the institutions for initial preparatory training. However, it is important for us to make clear the importance of following up on well-being measurements and resolving the problems of well-being with too many children and young people who do not thrive. So I would also like to ask the Minister: what exactly is going to happen as a follow-up to these well-being measurements? However, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184720	No one has asked for brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319184731	Thank you. Working with children and young people's well-being is one of the most important work being done right now out there, because we can see that there are more children and young people who are not feeling well. There may be many reasons for this, but I personally believe that it can be due both to something in private, digital media, a stressful everyday life in the home, but I also believe that it has something to do with the political structures that we decide to do, namely that when you test children more and more, it is up to 30 times in national tests and then there are the voluntary tests that the municipalities are doing in addition • when grades take up more and more, when the classes are growing, when the teachers have less time to prepare when the educational institutions are spared, the well-being work that is in progress, so of course it is important for the well-being of young people. That is why I believe that the most important work we could have done was to change the structures that make children and young people miserable today. But it is also important to know how things are going with the well-being, which is why it was right to introduce a well-being survey into the primary school, which is why it was right to introduce it into youth education, and that is why it is also right to introduce it into a fgu-education as it is now going to happen. As has also been said, some young people are involved, who in many cases have suffered in their lives. This is among other things. what we decide today. Then we also decide to address the concern that has naturally been about the municipalities' interaction with these well-being data. Apart from the fact that I do not think the Minister goes far enough in relation to anonymity, I would like to commend the Minister for moving out quickly after all, since this whole matter of municipalities having no control at all over how they collected these welfare data and also went too far in relation to how they used them. The Minister put an end to these tests, and now we are, as it were, only getting started when we know that it is under more controlled conditions, for example. with this mandatory tool provided by the Ministry of Education, and it gives more certainty about the students' data, and that's really good. We might have thought about it, and we will also work for it by a new majority that the students' CPR numbers had been removed and made anonymous. We still think that the tool had been available to work on the well-being of students, while at the same time removing some of the great concern that children's CPR numbers should be kept. There is also a fundamental discussion about how much the state should actually have around its citizens, where I do not think it is necessary here to have lying. However, the proposal is a good step in the right direction and therefore the SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185020	It has not triggered a wish for comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185030	Thank you. The tribulation measurements need to be adjusted, and fortunately we agree to do so, and that is very welcome, so I would like to acknowledge that, because data security is not something we should take lightly. When we tell our doctor about diseases, when we go to the psychologist, because we have a life crisis, or when we talk to a lawyer because we have to divorce, we expect the private information we provide not to come into the wrong hands and that they are treated with confidentiality and not just shared with others. This, of course, must also be the case for school students when we ask them to answer personal questions • questions that come close to and are about loneliness, feelings and perhaps your innermost secrets. The measurements are a tool for following students' well-being at national level measured on a number of issues, but we must never compromise on safety, and pupils and parents must be confident that their information is treated confidentially and used for the right purposes. With this bill, we are tightening up data security on well-being measurements in all areas of education, and we make it mandatory for primary and secondary schools and vocational schools and fgu institutions to use an IT system provided by the Agency for IT and Learning. The IT system will not cost schools and institutions anything, and it will be used to collect pupils' responses to well-being measurements. In this way neither municipalities, schools nor institutions will have access to the individual pupils' replies, but they will continue to be able to see the results of the well-being measurements on e.g. Class and school level. In addition, we in the Ministry of Education also engage with more clear and clear communication on the use and purpose of well-being measurements for pupils, parents and schools, and the safety of third-party access to well-being measurements is strengthened, for example. in the case of researchers. If we are to be able to use the pupils' answers for anything at all, it is crucial that the students answer the questions honestly, and you do not do so if you have a fear that the information will come into the wrong hands. Finally, we must remember ourselves and each other that well-being and the good life of children and young people have not been done by collecting data on the students. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185238	Nor did it give rise to a desire for short comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185315	The debate is open and I give the floor first to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Malou Lunderød.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185336	Thank you, President. The bill we are discussing today is, after all, the implementation of the health pool agreement, which we have been involved in together with the government, the Danish People's Party, the alternative, the Radical Left and the SF. And the specific legislative proposal that we have here is aimed at ensuring clear rules for the social treatment of citizens with drug abuse during the period, from the citizens asking for treatment, to 14 days after which treatment should then be initiated. Citizens who have a drug abuse often also have other challenges, and often they are actually known in the municipal system. These are complex cases in which the citizen needs action from several sides. It requires municipalities to succeed in cooperating across departments and administrations to find the best solutions and processes for the citizen. This requires clarity about the needs and treatment of the citizen and close cooperation with the treatment site to ensure both quality and intensity in the course of treatment. The first part of the bill is then about making it a duty that the treatment offer at the start of the treatment prepares a treatment plan, and that is really good, because it can contribute to the citizen's motivation and ownership being included in the treatment as well. At the same time, we are thinking that it will stop the treatment site from having this constant contact with the citizen and having a plan at the start of treatment. What may then concern us a little bit is that we are now once again introducing a plan for this citizen, who probably has a whole folder full of plans from different parts of the municipality. It can, for example, be done. be an employment plan or a plan for the person's children or all sorts of others. And that is why we in the Social Democratic Party have actually proposed an exception in social legislation as well. For example, we would like to see people with abuses, of course on the basis of a specific professional judgement, exempted from general requirements and regulations across areas. These may be sanctions, but they may also be waiting for some types of treatments, which can then be started immediately. Similarly, we have proposed a continuous and coordinating caseworker for precisely such a target group as this one, where there is more than one challenge, so as to create more coherence in social services. It's important to us that these people don't run from one office to another. We can therefore be a little concerned about another plan, and we may be concerned about whether it actually has the effect that we want it to have. That is why, in the work of the committee, we would very much like to have a discussion on how we can ensure that this plan actually has the effect it should have and that it talks with the other plans that may be in the municipal system. Because I think that the intention behind it is, of course, that it should have an effect and not be just another administrative burden. Then there's the other part of the bill that's about the gift card thing. At the moment we are actually seeing a very large and violent increase among young people who have drug abuse. There are, for example: a study by Momentum based on data from the Danish Health Service, which shows that the proportion of young drug addicts has increased from 25 to 45%. In just 10 years. The same study then also shows that in reality it has shifted what it is that addiction is going on, away from a classic opioid addiction to more of hashish addiction. And so I also think that we are seeing a development that shows that hashish is very much the gateway for young people to harder drugs and an addiction. What you can then see with gift cards is that it is actually one of the tools that works and that there is really good experience with the use of it. Nine municipalities have already tried to do so, and good experience shows that after just 9 months, half of the young people were drug-free. We also note that it actually also shows that some of them are being stopped from running criminally. These are very good elements, and that is why we support it in the legislative proposal. But we're left with this feeling of: is it enough? Now does it make the difference we actually want it to make? After all, this is a complex area which requires a great deal of interplay within the municipality and between the municipality and other actors. Therefore, we would like a discussion on how to strengthen this more effectively, and we will also be aware of this and how to ensure that the treatment plan in particular will actually work in the interaction with the other plans that may be in the area. Otherwise, however, we support the legislative proposal in its entirety, and I would like to welcome the Radicals and say that they also support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185823	There is a request for a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185829	Thank you. Now I haven't been in the negotiations in the Ministry of Health about the rate pool, but I'm really happy with this proposal and think it's really, really good. But I just have one question, because the rapporteur is only talking about cannabis abuse. Is this particular proposal aimed at cannabis, or is it directed at all types of drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185851	In fact, I have not been in that debate either, but as I read the proposal, it is aimed at all types of drugs. Speaking of cannabis, it is because I am sensitive to the fact that for young drug addicts in particular, who are now half the people we have in treatment in our drug treatment, the hash entrance and thus also the entrance to other types of drugs. But the treatment of drug abuse affects all drugs, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185920	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185922	I hope that the rapporteur has read the studies that have been carried out recently, where there is complete disprovement that cannabis can be a gateway drug, in other words a drug that leads to other drugs. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur have any evidence of this? Or can the rapporteur imagine that the people in question have first smoked cigarettes and had coffee and drunk alcohol? Why cannabis? Does the rapporteur have any evidence that precisely cannabis leads to hard drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319185949	I can at least refer to the study that I mentioned earlier, which Momentum has done, which shows that of the people we have in drug abuse treatment, we have had a much greater proportion in the past, which has been dependent on those classic opioid drugs, i.e. cocaine and heroin, where we now have a much, much larger proportion, which is hash abuse addiction and where some of them also develop it has a special word, now I have just forgotten that cross-abuse, that is to say, addiction to several types of drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190021	No one else has asked for brief comments to the rapporteur, so we thank and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190035	Thank you for that, President. Since our social rapporteur could not be here today, I have promised to present the views of the Danish People's Party to Bill 187. The proposal, which is the implementation of the pool agreement, which, as has already been said, is in the field of health, must be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. The background may therefore be reasonable enough, but it is a little special to have to deal with something that has not been discussed. The reason should be that the content of the proposal relates only to the social action of people with drug abuse. Prior to the pool agreement, a study was carried out on the possibilities of shortening the treatment guarantee for people with drug abuse. Of the proposals made in the study, there were among others: the content of this bill. That the proposal provides for clear rules for the social treatment of drug addicts, we in the Danish People's Party can support it. When a citizen makes a request for treatment, the effort must be made quickly, and this is done by drawing up a treatment plan as well. This does not always happen today, as it is only an option and not something to be done In order to go through a course of treatment with a positive result, it is important that the addict is motivated. Any kind of motivation can be reduced if it doesn't happen relatively quickly, that this effort is now being set in motion. As is also described in the proposal, there have been positive results with the project that has targeted children and young people between 15 and 25 years of age. 50% of the participants are drug-free, 9 months after the end of treatment. The treatment consists of several elements and treatments, and it can also be combined with a gift certificate as described. As is also seen in many other areas in the social field, there are major differences among the municipalities of the country in how social treatment is. This bill must be amended by clarifying the rules governing social treatment of drug abuse. In this way the state of law will be clarified. The Danish People's Party supports the bill as part of the pool of bets. We consider it important that the treatment of abuse should be initiated as soon as possible, that it should be effective and holistic, and that professional quality should be in focus. So the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190309	Thank you very much to Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190316	Thank you for that, President. Since the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has no opportunity to be here tonight, I have promised to read the speech. Right now, we are discussing L 187 on an enhanced treatment guarantee for people with drug abuse, and this is a very important legislative proposal, because in this way we are helping to ensure that citizens who want to be treated for a drug abuse must receive rapid, effective and comprehensive treatment. However, there has been a need to have clear rules in this area if we are to ensure this help as quickly as possible, and that is actually what we are addressing here. So the government has chosen to launch an inter-ministerial study, which in the autumn among other things. concluded that there is a need to strengthen the processing guarantee. The study revealed that there is a difference between municipalities in the interpretation of the existing treatment guarantee in terms of social treatment. The Ministry considers that this could lead to an uneven approach to the visitation and that it could also have negative consequences for the aid and support received by drug addicts. In other words, it is the rules in force that are unclear and that impose a level playing field, and that is why we must clean up. I am therefore also pleased that a broad support has been found for the initiative of the pool of rates negotiations in the field of health. Today's bill proposes that we clean up the rules so that the requirements for municipal treatment efforts are clarified and that we also support holistic efforts for those citizens who want to get out of drug abuse. Against this background, the government puts in place, among other things: This means, among other things, that the municipal council must ensure that the treatment offer is drawn up and that a treatment plan is drawn up. It must ensure a systematic, targeted and coherent organisation of the course of treatment itself, while at the same time deciding on treatment based on a holistic coverage of the citizen's problem and needs within 14 days. It must therefore ensure effective and holistic treatment. In addition to this, it is also intended to disseminate these effective methods of treatment, which include: is about the municipal council being given the opportunity to use gift cards as a social offer to drug addicts. This should help to make the treatment services more flexible and give the citizen a surplus to monitor the treatment more closely. In addition to this, an authorisation clause is also introduced to ensure flexibility in the regulation of requirements, and this does not stop here: the Social Protection Agency will, following the bill, revise the national guidelines on social drug abuse treatment so as to ensure that there remains a common basis for quality development in the municipalities. So with this bill, initiatives have been taken for a great many good things, and that is how the bill here also ensures a good and proper treatment for the future. So the Left supports the bill, and I also have a greeting from the Conservatives, which also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190641	Thank you very much to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, and warmly welcome Mr. Jakob Silver Mound from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190653	In the absence of our social rapporteur, I must say that the Enhedslisten is in favour of the bill here, but that we would point out that it is far from sufficient to solve the problems of the treatment of abuse. The problem is not only that there are different practices in the municipalities, but it is also very much a matter of weak municipal funds and that outpatient treatment is much cheaper than day care, which may be absolutely necessary to ensure sufficient solid action and, at the same time, to get drug users out of their usual environment. Therefore, the Enhedslisten will continue to work to ensure that the processing guarantee is not only clarified and standardized, as is proposed in the bill here, but also that a substantive right of treatment is given as an abuser, which will allow a better opportunity for 24-hour treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190746	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. There are no brief comments and a warm welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190754	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we also think that this is a very good agreement that the pool parties have made over in the Ministry of Health, because it has clearly been a messy process when addicts should be treated. They have been thrown around in the system, and it is quite clear that the rules have been too unclear for the municipalities to be able to navigate it. Now we clean up the rules, and we support the holistic approach, and I think that is very important. Because, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, there are some who have cross-diagnoses, some who have an abuse while suffering from some mental illness, and I think that the impression of most of us sitting in here is that they have been allowed to hover around the system too long. So we need to get them caught when they're motivated to get out of their abuse. That is where we need to take action. Then it may well be that we need to make more massive efforts, which will be more expensive for the municipalities at the moment, but which will have a greater impact on the longer term, because we are linking ourselves to the motivation of the individual citizen. We think that this implementation of the agreement is sensible and the Liberal Alliance, of course, supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190920	Thank you to Mrs Lindahl and warmly welcome to Mr Lindahl. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319190925	Thank you very much. As some may know, I've just been on the street in Aarhus as a homeless person or internship as a homeless person, I'd rather call it that, because that doesn't make me homeless. But I was on the street a week to learn how to make a better homeless effort. The fact is that we spend a lot of millions of dollars on the homeless effort, and at the same time there are more and more homeless people. So, in Aarhus, the number of homeless people almost explodes, especially young homeless people, there are more and more. I don't mind spending a lot of money on the fight against homelessness. I don't mind spending even more than we do today. But it is incredibly important that we use them wisely, and therefore I went on the street to talk to the homeless and talk to those who help them. I slept in the shelter, I slept in the shelters, and I visited places and projects for homeless people such as the Stadium, the Creep and the Sidetrack, and talked to homeless people and all those who are trying to take care of them and those who are trying to get them out of homelessness. What does that have to do with this bill? It's got a lot to do with this bill. For among the many, many sad fates and diagnoses and problems and challenges that those people had, I think the greatest and most humiliating was the abuse of hard drugs, especially hard drugs, cocaine, drugs such as crack, morphine, heroin. It is drugs that keep the addicts completely locked in a reality where they have to raise hundreds, perhaps thousands of dollars a day by doing crime, etc. etc. And the prerequisite for getting out of homelessness is simply to get out of that abuse. That is why I welcome this proposal, and I also agree that there must be clear and good treatment for abuse, which is being applied quickly. I talked to several addicts while they were spraying cocaine or smoking crack, and even in that situation they were talking about getting out of their abuse. Getting out of the abuse is simply so present to the people, but as they say, it is not a decision that a street worker can make for one or a case worker can take for one. The decision to get out of hard drugs comes deep, deep inside. It may be because you're losing contact with your kids because you might have a boyfriend or because you're dying of it. Then you make the decision and contact the municipality, and then you can't wait for two months. Then it has to be a quick treatment, an effective treatment and I would say that it also sounds right, very wise in this draft law with a comprehensive plan. I was talking to a former drug addict named Betty. She said that when you have to get out of your abuse, it's not just about getting off the bench and getting drunk and getting into an apartment and sitting there. You simply have to change the content of your life. We need a new social network, we need new interests, we simply need a new life. That is why it is incredibly important, as this proposal says, to support the abusers on a number of levels so that they can have a different social life and learn something and so on. etc.: You have to learn again how to shop, how to control a daily life, how to cook, how to get back into life. So the alternative, of course, supports this proposal and also the gift card option. And, like the Socialists, we would also like to go further, in other words we would like to have a shorter treatment guarantee. The moment the drug addict, who is addicted to hard drugs, is motivated, maybe only a few days. There has to be an immediate effort so that you can get started immediately, and then it is a very good idea with a thorough coordinating case officer, so there is someone you talk to and who follows you throughout the process. Whether it is a direct treatment action against drug abuse or it is a social effort or what it is, there must be one person who can be trusted. So even if we want to go further in the alternative, we think it is right, very good, that some money has been allocated to this in the Ministry of Health. And it is really, really good that it is becoming much clearer and the same for all municipalities, so they know what to do, because we simply have to help abusers out of their abuse, both because of course it is a human gain, a huge human gain, and because in the long run it is also a really good social investment, because it costs money in the health sector, in the justice sector and in all sorts of other places. And that cost is much, much greater than the investment we could put into it to get people out of abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191425	Thank you very much, sir. Torsten Gejl. We've come to sir. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191448	In the SF we do not believe that there are any people who deserve to be trapped in the prison that drug abuse really is. In the SF we believe that as a community we have an obligation to help people out of that prison, ensure that there is rapid help for those people, especially when they are prepared to get out of their drug abuse. It has been the case that local authorities' practices in helping people with drug abuse have been quite different. With this deal and this bill, you try to standardize practice. It is said that when the processing guarantee, like it, comes into force, we must make a holistic effort. I think that one of the big mistakes we make with people who have social problems is to think in pillars. Then we solve a problem here, and some others will have to solve the other problems. I really think that if we want to help these people, young people and older people, then you have to look at the whole and look at how you can generally lift them. Then the proposal also envisages increasing the use of these gift cards, and it is important for SF that gift cards remain a motivating means of making use of treatment offers. We've been able to see that it works, and it's fine, so spread it out. However, a gift certificate cannot replace a good treatment offer, and therefore our primary focus should also be on strengthening the treatment offers that exist in the future. We are also very happy to participate and will also make proposals in the future on how to strengthen these treatment services. But this is a good step on the way, and that's why SF backs it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191638	Thank you very much, sir. Jacob Mark. I do not see any more rapporteurs, so we now have a unique opportunity to hear the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191652	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for receiving the bill today, and also thank you for some very good speeches. It is of course very important that when there is a citizen who has a drug abuse and is ready for treatment, there is a welfare society that is ready to help immediately. That is why I am also very pleased that the parties behind the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement agreed to strengthen the processing guarantee, and that is the agreement that this bill brings about. The study of the possibilities of shortening the treatment guarantee for people with drug abuse showed that there is a difference among municipalities in interpreting the existing treatment guarantee, and it is of course crucial for the effect of treatment that citizens in drug abuse receive help very quickly and when they are motivated. The purpose of the study has therefore been to examine whether the current treatment guarantee is sufficient and good enough and, as the study shows, a number of stakeholders in the field • thus point out those who really know something about the area • that it is not an abbreviation that will have the greatest impact on citizens in a drug abuse. Instead, the study points to the need to strengthen the rules in force and to clarify the rules in force, as several rapporteurs have also said. It is therefore against this background that we are strengthening the demands made, from the citizen's request for help, and for the treatment to be started within 14 days. The draft law introduces a new obligation to draw up a treatment plan, and in addition we also provide for the possibility of using gift cards in the treatment of drug abuse, and I am, of course, at the disposal of the questions which the committee would like to see clarified during the committee's proceedings. Then I can't help but reflect on what Torsten Gejl of the Alternative said as one last thing. Because when, on the basis of the latest homeless census, we made a strong and solid homeless plan, we played by the government to allocate 250 million. kr., and then I'm really proud that we came ashore and got priority 150 million. kr. For that. I would be very sorry if we did not give priority to the last 100 million. kr. I think it would be a good idea if we were to do that, especially because the last 100 million. kr. In fact, among other things. were to go to projects to ensure that fewer young people became homeless. That plan is about to be rolled out now. There has been a homeless census here in February... the homeless count comes every two years... and I just hope that, across the parties, you will want and also feel obliged to give priority to the homeless area if it turns out that there has been an increase after the big plan we have agreed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191945	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319191948	Now it is rarely the case when you come up with a stake in the stake-pool negotiations of 250 million. kr. that you are left with 250 million. kr. later. All the projects are being cut back. But doesn't the Minister agree that in relation to how much money we allocate to this area, it's a problem that at the same time the homelessness just increases, yes, in Aarhus almost explodes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192014	If you take the latest homeless census, you can see that in Odense you have succeeded very well in reducing the number of homeless people, and in Copenhagen it is roughly the status quo. And where we can see the biggest increase is in cities where you typically do not identify with homeless people. That's how it is in the larger provincial towns. In fact, I believe that the latest homeless count was a wake-up call for those cities that do not identify with having homeless people, so that they also get a systematic housing first-effort in place. Because if you have a systematic housing first effort, you also have the plan to ensure that the homeless are properly taken care of, first and foremost, by securing housing and then by securing the right social services in that housing. So in the municipalities that work very concentrated with housing first, the challenges have been met. And I would just like to appeal to you that, if you are standing here again and experiencing the increase in the number of homeless people, then I think that you can make a political commitment to deal with that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192121	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192122	Well, Aarhus is not a small provincial town, and in Aarhus the number of homeless people has exploded; there are more homeless people in Aarhus than there are now in Copenhagen. So I think it is appropriate to ask whether we are spending the money properly. Well, in Aarhus there is a huge readiness with places to stay and homeless collections and lots of shelters and lots of people trying to help the homeless. Can the Minister not be concerned that we are spending that money a little wrong, and would the Minister not agree with me that it might be wise to learn something more about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192200	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192201	Yes, but we are learning all the time, and that is what we are doing from the projects we are setting in motion. Housing first was established as a bet pool project back in the '00s and showed very good results. This was the time when treatment first started and then found a place to live, to housing first, where they were first found a place to live and then treated. It is true that Aarhus stands out, especially in relation to young people in Aarhus, and I have to say that I am sure that the Aarhusians could also have spent the 75 million. kr. to young housing first housing, which thus did not come with, from the government's original proposal and which was sorted out in the course of the wagering pool negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192241	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights, and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192259	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192322	Thank you, President. The SF has proposed to introduce a minimum age of 3 years for the transition of children from crèche or day care to kindergarten. I would like to start by stressing that I fully agree with the importance of early efforts to strengthen the basis for children's further learning and well-being, and that, like SF, I am very concerned about ensuring good quality in the Danish daily offers. That is why I am very pleased that the government, together with others, is doing so. The Danish People's Party, but also several other parties here in the Parliament hall have ensured that approx. 2 billion kr. over 4 years to strengthen the daily offers. This is done both with the agreement on strong day-to-day offers, of which a number of parties are part, the parallel social agreements and, of course, with the 1,000-day programme on the first 1,000 days of the child, one billion. kr., which was deposed this autumn, is now being rolled out. These are, of course, resources which, among other things, are: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the This is, of course, because we are concerned with targeting the funds so that we strengthen the quality of day-to-day offers where there is the most need. We will use the money to create more quality, and that also means that we are not at present ready for Christiansborg to introduce rigid rules on the structure of daily offers, which all day offers must follow regardless of local wishes and needs. I can see from the proposal that SF believes that as far back as 2008, the municipalities have let children start earlier and earlier in kindergarten. In this respect, I cannot fail to note that the SF was in government during the period 2011-2014 and that SF's party chairman at that time was, after all, a minister for exactly the day-off area. During that period, the SF did not introduce rules for the transition from crèche to kindergarten, and it may well be a little surprising that neither the proposal on minimum standards, which the SF has also made nor the proposal we are discussing today, was implemented or even just proposed by the SF when they were in government. But it may be that during the debate the SF can make us wiser. In Denmark we have municipal autonomy. It is out locally, you know the needs of the citizens and also know which solutions are best, and it would be a very big breach of that principle if Christiansborg's side started to regulate in detail how the municipalities should organise the tasks that they are best at solving. We have chosen a welfare model with municipal autonomy, because there must be room for individual and local considerations to be taken into account. This also means that there are many different approaches to how day offers are structured and organized. In some places you have an integrated daycare system with several age groups in the same daycare centre; in others you have a daycare room and daycare for the small children and kindergarten for the slightly larger ones. And then there is, for example. where the children are divided into age groups corresponding to their age and then once a year they move to a new living room. And thus there will not be a definite move from crèche to kindergarten. My point is that there are a number of different models and a number of different solutions, and it is out locally that you decide which organisation works well. So when I say that the organisation of day-to-day offers is the responsibility of the municipalities, it is, in fact, because I sincerely believe that it is extremely important to safeguard a model in which professionals and citizens will have as much influence as possible on the close welfare situation. Then I must also say that I am of course concerned when I see that there are some municipalities which propose to move children earlier in kindergarten into their savings catalogue when they make budgets. That is why I would also like to send a clear signal to municipal politicians that I expect them to make their children's policy on the basis of what is best for children. Of course, the municipalities can arrange their day offers in different ways, but it has to be because they believe that they can create good and safe day offers for the children not because they can save money. Having said that, my position in this matter is that decisions on citizens' welfare should be taken as close to citizens as possible, and that is in the municipalities and not at Christiansborg. Therefore, the government cannot support the establishment of rigid and square rules on when children should move from one day offer to another in the day offer age. However, the whole debate on quality in the day institutions and the fact that we invest in our day institutions and have the early efforts we have already prioritised, and I am sure that we will also be giving priority to that afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192814	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192821	Thanks for the speech. I think it was a good question that was asked about why we in the SF have not actually put it ourselves before. I think that is frankly because we have not been aware of the problem before. This is the first time this proposal has ever been put forward in the Danish Parliament, and I am making it on the basis that a number of parents who have contacted me have said: we are experiencing our children being moved earlier and we feel that it is happening before our children are ready for it; and it is precisely in several municipalities that it has become such for reasons of austerity that children are moved earlier and earlier. We have been able to see the trend, it is clear, we are moving children in the past and in the past to save money, and that is actually why we are only now making this proposal. I would like to hear from the Minister what the Minister will do about the development in which we see municipalities moving children earlier from crèche to kindergarten to save money. The Minister says that the Minister does not think this is very good. But what do we do about it, because development is only going one way right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319192924	I think it is important to say that children are different. There are children who have a huge drive and simply need to be uprooted and where parents report that children are bored and that they need new challenges. You have to pay attention to them. And then there are the children to whom attention must also be paid and who can face some challenges that make it the best thing for them to wait. It can, for example, be done. the child is too early to be born or has other challenges, and it is there that is needed for the pedagogical look and for professional professionals who can go in and take this assessment. I am not prepared to withdraw that competence from the municipalities. I think one thing is forgotten in both this proposal for the transition to kindergarten, but also in the discussion about minimum standards, and that is that by putting it up for Christiansborg you will have a quite violent centralisation, and I do not believe that that is the best thing. I believe that when it comes to this very close well-being, the decisions are best taken by the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193034	I can be in doubt whether the Minister has read the proposal, because it is designed so cleverly that there is local freedom. It is true that the starting point is that children are moved at the age of three, and that is what the financial resource should be given to. But it is quite clear that if a child needs to be moved earlier, one can, in consultation with the parents, move the child earlier. It is based on pedagogy and not on economics. Now the minister is saying that this is a rigid rule, so what I really want to ask is: is it also a rigid rule that you start at school when you are 6 years old? It's exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193109	There is certainly a difference. When you start school at the age of 6, it is because there is compulsory education, and the obligation to teach has been decided jointly in the Folketing to translate into starting school when you are 6 years old. After all, there is no child-care obligation in general. Then there may be a rule for children living in vulnerable residential areas where, since 2010, I believe it was, a rule was introduced that children of three years of age should be admitted to an institution, and that is where we change it to happen from one year of age. But there is no obligation to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193145	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193148	The minister gives a whole speech without saying what she really means. And so I would like to ask directly: what does the Minister think is the right age for when to start kindergarten? Because this discussion isn't about making some fixed rule, it's just about when the normal time is. Well, what's the starting point? Is it 2 years and 10 months? Or is it three years? I would therefore like to ask: what does the Minister think should be the starting point for when children start in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193219	Mrs. Lotte Rod is as lucky as I am in having children of her own. I have one who goes to the nursery and one who goes to kindergarten. Children are exactly different, and therefore the question is not meaningful. Well, it's not meaningful to ask which age is the right one to move up to kindergarten. It has to be up to an assessment locally, and it has to be up to the politicians who are in the municipalities to discuss what day-off offers they have. For example, if you have a day offer that has organized itself into three groups with a small group, an intermediate group and a large group, then the whole change from crèche to kindergarten does not make sense. And that's the look I'm actually just appealing to you to have, namely that there are a lot of different ways of organizing yourself locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193311	But with this proposal there will be exactly the same individual assessment in the future as there is today. The question is: what is the starting point for children to start in kindergarten when they are 3 years old or when they are 2 years old and 10 months old? Therefore, I would just like to ask the Minister what she says about what the educators say: that what has happened by children going to kindergarten now is that there are many more diapers and that the standards we have in our kindergarten are based on children dropping their diapers when they start in kindergarten. Does the Minister think that this is a problem? Does the Minister recognize that our standards in kindergarten are too poor when there are so many young children?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193354	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193355	My clear starting point is, of course, that it is out of the locality that you prioritise and make decisions about what works best in each municipality. And in the individual municipalities you can have different solutions. In some municipalities you can have children's houses where you have a small, medium and large group, or you can have old-age integrated rooms, i.e. where you have such a roll once a year, and then you can have some where there is a direct move. Well, that depends on what kind of area it is. Are they children who are at risk? Are they children who have a disability and yet are included in the institution? That is where you need to have the professional look, and that is why I just appeal to you to be careful to believe that it is in Christiansborg that you have the best solutions that you can then push down on them out at local level. I don't believe that. I believe that it is out locally that the best solutions can be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193450	Thank you very much to the Minister. Then we go to the rapporteurs and the first to speak is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193507	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the SF for raising the debate on what everyday life we give our children and what the framework for our daycare institutions should be. This is an important debate and there is no doubt that we owe our children and the employees who have our children in their hands every day that it is a daily life with both time and presence. We share SF's concern that the development that has taken place in many municipalities in recent years is more about economics than it is about children. This is really true both of what we are discussing today, namely the transition to kindergarten, but it also applies to the transition to school, where we see a similar development with fewer and fewer people being allowed to postpone school start. So the whole movement towards that this becomes a screw you can turn on if you lack money rather than looking at the needs of the kids is something you have to overcome. That is an intention and an objective that we share. It means a lot to a group of children that you have some children moved up several months before the 3 years. This means something that we have heard in this Chamber before, about how many people use diapers. It means what kind of need they have for adult contact, and generally it means something to the child's development. And there's a lot going on around the 3 years. It makes a very big difference to the tasks of adults as well as to the perception of how the standards feel for adults in relation to whether they can reach all children. In the Social Democratic Party we do not agree with everything in the SF's concrete proposals, but we fully share the objective that this should be more about the child and less about the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193656	Thank you very much, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193710	Thank you very much for that, President. Since our child and family rapporteur, Pernille Bendixen, could not be here today, I have promised to present the position of the Danish People's Party. SF proposes to introduce a minimum age of 3 years for children going to kindergarten. As the proposers themselves describe it, there is a great difference between when children are ready to go to kindergarten and it is already possible today to estimate that a child can stay longer in nursery or day care if they are not ready for kindergarten. This is assessed by the teaching staff together with the parents, and in the Danish People's Party we are confident that the staff can make the assessment. In addition, it is up to the individual municipalities to set an age of when children are going to kindergarten. It is quite true that there is also an economy behind that priority, but alternatively, the municipalities would have to find the funding elsewhere every year with the consequences it would have for some of the other citizens of the municipality. The Danish People's Party is therefore of the opinion that the municipalities are better at assessing it than we are here in the Folketing. If we decide from here to go through with this, according to the SF, we're going to have to find 325 million. kr. It's a very high bill to move an age limit 2-3 months. However, we always welcome the fact that more money is being spent on children and on more hands, which is why we have also supported both strong day offers and the first 1,000 days when 2 billion have been added. kr. can be used for more hands, education, curricula and good management. We cannot support the proposal because we think it is expensive and because it is already possible for the municipal council to set the age limit as it is today. So the Danish People's Party does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193901	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193906	Just so it's settled, the proposal's funded. This means that the municipalities themselves do not have to find money for this. We have a proposal for funding and always like to discuss other sources of funding. In fact, when we propose this, it is precisely because we want it to be the staff who, together with the parents, must assess when the child is ready. As the rapporteur says, it is today the municipal council that does so, and in many cases the decisions of the municipal council do not take into account what is best for the child or what the parents think. They are based on rigid economic thinking. Then the rapporteur does not see that if you really want what the Danish People's Party says about allowing staff to assess, it makes sense that the economy is there, and then it is really up to parents and educators to find out together when it makes the best sense for the child to move up?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319193958	I believe that the municipalities can easily assess it, even if it is, as you say, the municipal councils that decide it. After all, they do so in cooperation with the management of the day institutions and in relation to the budget negotiations. I believe that if the parents were to take a different question about this, which I heard the rapporteur asked about this, they could always go to the parents' boards in the day institutions and thus pass the matter on to the municipal council. Even if the children are moved up in kindergarten it may be around summer time or other times, so they start in kindergarten a little before the municipal council can also allow the money to keep up. It is, after all, sometimes we see that when the child is not 3 years old, the same economy is still away with that child, even though the child is moving up in kindergarten, and that the economy only changes after the child has reached the age of 3 years. In this way, there is a little more staff, for example. if you change over for a summer period.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194107	That is exactly the flexibility we would like to have in all municipalities, namely that the money goes along and that the standards are good, but that the question of when the child should move up is based on what is best for the child. I would like to ask the rapporteur something a little more general. Now the rapporteur talks a lot about the municipal council and cooperation with parents. Can the rapporteur imagine that some local authorities have felt pressured because of their economy to lower the age limit and therefore also the norms? For de facto, there is a deterioration in standards out there locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194142	It is always up to the individual municipality. We have municipal autonomy, and there is always a municipal council that must distribute the money that is for the budgets. There you have to choose the municipal council that you want to take care of in the individual municipalities. We do that every four years. At least in the municipality I come from, the members of the municipal council are also close to both parents' boards and other things and have regular meetings with them. There you could take the discussion if it was thought on the parents' boards that there was a problem about this. So I think that should be taken advantage of. That is why I would like to insist on the fact that there is still local government autonomy and that money is being found out there for yourself. But I would urge you, of course, to let the money follow the child. We would also like to see this in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194235	Thank you very much to Mrs Susanne Eilersen and welcome to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194244	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the SF for raising the debate in this Chamber tonight. Because with this resolution, the SF will impose on the government before the end of the parliamentary year 2018-19, and it is here in a moment to introduce a minimum age of 3 years for children's transition from crèche or day care to kindergarten, unless parents specifically want their child to start earlier in kindergarten, for example. is considered to be educationally sound. This is a proposal that SF justifies by the fact that practice in the municipalities has changed and that there is also a great variation from municipality to municipality in relation to when the children start. In the Left, however, we do not believe that in this way the state should enter and regulate this area. In fact, we think that the freedom, as it is, lies with the municipalities. We also believe that the competence to organise these things, such as the European Parliament's Committee on External Economic Relations, should be strengthened. age breakdown and structure are best found in the municipalities. And we do so because it can be said that the municipalities and municipal councils are closer to the citizens and should therefore also follow local needs. So all in all, we have to say that we are not going to support the resolution here, and I can say from the Conservatives that they are not going to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194417	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194421	The problem is that today it does not follow local needs. The problem is that today, when assessing when children should move from nursery to kindergarten, in many places it is not such that it is based on what is best for the child. It is based on the fact that the municipal council has decided that they should do so when, for example, they do so. is 2 years and 10 months, because you can save a given number of millions of kroner on that. And the trend has been clear. From 2008, when there were 12 municipalities where they moved before they were 3 years old, it now applies to half of the country's municipalities. Is the rapporteur not concerned about the tendency that we, like our children, push away in kindergarten earlier and earlier, even if we do not know if they are ready?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194508	Well, obviously I also think it is important that we keep an eye on this development, but I have to say that this is not how I am concerned. I worked with this area for almost 19 years before I became a member of parliament, and I have to say that I have just as sometimes experienced that there have been children who could hardly wait to be allowed to go to kindergarten, that is, where they have been more than ready and perhaps not been challenged enough in the nursery, but of course would have more challenges if they were given the opportunity to go to kindergarten. I think it is really important that we trust that it is the professional and municipal staff who have their hands on the pulse and know what kind of situation you are in at local level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194603	But that is really the best argument for voting in favour of this proposal, because it gives professional freedom. The trade staff haven't done that today. They are dictated by the municipal council: The children in your day care institution must move at that time. With this proposal, we say that it is the professional staff and the parents who together assess when it makes the best sense for the children. So the kids can still move earlier than they do today. You can see, for example, that... In the municipality of Brøndby is the amount given in the crèche age, approx. 147,000 kr. When the kids move up to kindergarten, it's 83,000 kroner. per child. It is a marked deterioration when they go from one to the other. So when it happens earlier and earlier around, the money drops to the kids too. Is the rapporteur not at all concerned about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194652	No, actually, I'm not. And it is perhaps on the basis that I actually have great confidence that the council members who sit around the municipalities have two ears and that they also listen. I also know that sir... Jacob Mark himself is a council member, and in this way there is really confidence that when voters vote every four years, they will vote for some of those whom they are sure will listen to the parents. So I think it would be wrong if we, on the part of the state, were to get involved in these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194724	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen and warmly welcome Mr. Jakob Silver Mound from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319194732	If a municipality finds that its costs in the area of day care are too high, it can choose more ways to deal with the problem, and it has historically been possible to see how it has been handled. You can choose the raw shape and say: We cut 20, 30 or 40 employees away in a hurry. This often causes quite a lot of noise, and the staff will obviously be upset, and the parents will be even more upset if possible. Therefore, over time, the way to regulate the economy of day-care institutions has been refined. One of the first inventions was to look at the children's groups. It wasn't very inventive, but if you just turned up a little, so that there were 11 crèches instead of 10 or 21 kindergarten children instead of 20, then it goes without saying that when you look at unit costs, it's not so hard to see that they actually fall. It is a method that has been systematically worked on in the municipalities. There was an average group size in the crèches of 12 children in 2017. Another method, and this is the one addressed by the SF's proposal here, is to shift the groups from age to age, because there are different costs associated with the children, depending on their age. Sir. Jacob Mark has described it very well with the figures from the municipality of Brøndby. We have seen it wrapped in an awful lot of pedagogy, which has often appeared exceptionally cheap. Some of this may have a reason, because can it not be very good that the big kindergarten children start a little earlier in the sfo so that they can get to know the school before the hard reality hits them in the nursery class? We all know the stories, but overall it has happened that there is a systematic shift in the age groups, so that the oldest kindergarten children have been pushed up to school, because there was a much lower unit cost than in kindergarten, and we have seen a shift from the day care area to the nursery area. That's bad. It may be quite true that there may be cases in which an institution for 0-6-year-olds considers it sensible to make the shift a little earlier. And if you do so without the cost of resources, that can be sensible enough. However, there has been a system of disregarding the fact that these were different needs. The practical aspects have already been mentioned, issues of diapers, dinner lurs, and what I know, but there is also the whole of cognitive and motor development which plays a major role if we do not follow the level of development of the children in this way in the organisation of work. So the short part of the length is that you've developed it here as an instrument to reduce the standards, and therefore it's really good that SF tackles it. I think we watched the TV show... Who cares about our kids? Here the other day, some amazing photos of what it means for the children and for the reality of the day offers when there are too few employees. When the only employee present in the yellow room just has to go out and change the child that is still not clean and leave the whole group of children, we have seen what consequences it will have, namely that there are children who must sit alone in the living room. So the short of the long term is that it can be wrapped up nicely, but there is no doubt that the municipalities systematically use it here as an economic mechanism to reduce the standards conditions. This is such a slow shift, because if you move it for a single month, there may not be so many who experience it immediately, but when the displacement has occurred over time, it has just as serious consequences as if you had just removed the staff. So I would like to thank the SF very much for making this proposal. I think it is very important that we deal with the whole issue of standards and not just by saying more staff, but also by looking at how large the groups of children should be in the individual types of institution, and that we, just like this one, look at how old the children should be in the individual groups of children, because this has just as much a consequence of the quality of the teaching that needs to be carried out. So as has become apparent, Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195241	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195249	Thank you. Here too, I would like to thank the SF for raising the debate. As previous rapporteurs have explained, the SF proposes to introduce a minimum age of 3 years for children's transition from day nurseries to kindergarten. I actually understand the background; one is concerned that it will be a saving exercise to send children more quickly from nursery to kindergarten, because it is cheaper with a kindergarten child than a nursery child, so I actually understand that. But my appeal to a proposal like this is that these very rigid rules should be placed on the institutions. I have two children myself in day care. My daughter is 21⁄2 years old, so she goes to a nursery, and my boy is 41⁄2 years old, he goes to kindergarten. But in the institution in which they go, they have set themselves up in a different way. There they have a crèche, which is for the 0-2-year-olds, then they have a mini-children's garden for 2-3-year-olds, and then they have from 3 years of age and up a forest children's garden. So there you have chosen to adapt in a slightly different way than the traditional one, and that means that those very rigid rules about when to move will be harder to live up to if you have taken the freedom locally to try to adapt in an alternative way. When my boy went to this mini-children's garden, there was no room in the woods, so he actually stayed there until he was 31⁄2 years old before he moved up to kindergarten, and I thought that was too late. My daughter is about 2 years and 10 months away, and she could really be ready to go to kindergarten now. I know that it has been taken into account that if parents want to do so and there is a professional assessment, then you can, but the fact that it suddenly becomes an exception and an exemption, instead of the starting point being just the individual child, becomes too rigid for me, and that is actually the main reason why we do not support this proposal as it stands. It is not because we think that we should have children in kindergarten earlier than they are ready, not at all, but it is in recognition that we should be able to adapt locally as we would like, and this puts a limit on this. That is why we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195529	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195532	So, this proposal is based precisely on the individual child, because you can choose to move the child locally when it makes sense, without being financially punished or pressured to do so. Try to think of the municipalities where you have to move when the child is 2 years and 8 months old. What if the baby isn't ready until 2 years and 11 months? Then they'll be punished in the institution. Which institution has the most freedom: the one where you know you get the financial resources until the child is 3 years old, but where you choose for yourself, exactly when the child should be in which room it is SF's model or is it the model in which you in some municipalities are pressured to move the children, perhaps even before they are ready, because that is what you have just decided municipally? Where is the most freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195625	Well, freedom is in the municipality. After all, there is no municipality that can't do it, as Mr. Jacob Mark and SF suggest. In my municipality you have a crèche standard until the child is 3 years old, regardless of whether you choose to move the child, because you consider that the child is ready when it is 2 years and 10 months. So that freedom is totally local, and I think it is perfectly fair for a local council or city council to choose to do what Mr. Jacob Mark is suggesting. I just don't think we should do it from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195701	I think that is actually a very honest answer, because then the rapporteur says that freedom does not lie with the parents or with the professional staff, freedom lies in the municipality. And that is actually the essence of this, i.e. that freedom has been used to take away the freedom from parents and professional staff, and it has been used to take away the educational starting point and say that we are putting the need for savings higher. That's actually the essence of this. I actually think I just want to hear the rapporteur, when is enough, so how far down can the municipalities go before the rapporteur thinks that we should start to set some rules from in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195740	There is no doubt that what I would rather be was that each institution was given its total freedom, that the municipality chose to say: you get a bag of money, institution x, and then you can choose how to dispose of the money, i.e. whether the money should be spent on several hands, or whether the money should be spent in relation to making a minimum age limit for kindergarten. The parents' board could choose it locally and the local manager in the day institution, and that decision could be made in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195817	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no more brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319195823	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for this proposal and also for the latest proposal, which dealt with minimum standards in nurseries and kindergartens, where I could not be there myself, but which we supported in the alternative. I also think that this proposal is very positive. As a starting point, I am very pleased with all the proposals where we allocate money to crèches and kindergartens, because I think it is extremely important that we give priority to our children, and I think that more money is needed for that. And that comes in connection with this proposal, that is to say, it is a form of financial contribution. Then there is what has been discussed today, that is, a rule that children are not moved up to kindergarten until they are three years old. That is, of course, what has been argued for is a form of limitation of local self-determination, and I think that is also a valid argument. On the other hand, I understand the proposal that it takes this into account, i.e. that it is still a professional assessment, but that it is a protection for the professional staff, the parents and the child, that is to say, a kind of precautionary principle, perhaps, which does not allow the money to be decided, but takes care of the children in the first place. I think that is very sympathetic, and that is why we would very much like to support this proposal. The proposal we have ourselves on financial standards in kindergartens and nurseries is called economic norms, because we believe that there should be room for a degree of freedom in the individual institutions too, as was mentioned by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, a freedom to decide what money is spent on, but it requires, in the first place, that we allocate some amount of money that makes sense. That is why we call our proposal'minimum economic standards', because we think it should fit some kind of reasonable standarding. And that it can then be used according to professional judgement in the individual institutions, I think there should also be freedom to do so. That is at least how I understand the SF proposal, that is to say that it has been taken into account and that it is in fact also the intention behind it. It may be that we can get answers from the SF to some of the points that were also made, among others. by the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, that is to say that some institutions have groups other than age groups, and where they do not just group it from 0 to 2 years and 10 months and saw them at 2 years and 10 months and up. How does SF think it fits with such a daycare institution? As I said, it is fantastic when someone wants to give priority to children and actually also allocates money to it and not just stands and promises something and says that you are in favour of the intentions and that it sounds really fine and as a very good idea, but that there is a comma here and there that is wrong. I think this is very good and we would very much like to support it in the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319200134	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, and warmly welcome to Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319200143	Thank you. I can't get the documentary. Who cares about our kids? Out of your head again. I don't think there's a single parent who's seen the rocks with the kids who don't get hurt in their stomachs. And contrary to what we are so used to in here, it is not a journalist who has just tightened it, or a journalist who has been out looking for some single matter that stands out by being extreme. Well, this is reality. This is the everyday life of children in Denmark. Every single day there are children in this country who don't get the smiles and hugs that they need; children who are sad and who go around in the wardrobe alone and the adults don't have a chance to see the individual child. That is simply not right. In the Radical Left we have talked to the educators and the leaders. We met with her manager, who resigns in the documentary... Tina is her name... who says very clearly, just as many other educators also do, that it is about norms. But it is also about how many tasks the educators have away from the children, and it is about the age of the children, because in recent years children in the institutions have become younger and younger, and that does not match the standards that we have. In the Radical Left, we have already worked actively to try to convince the government that parents should have the right to stay in kindergarten instead of necessarily starting early school. But here the government is just black. We have a minister of education who believes that it will destroy the whole community in primary school if children were allowed to stay in kindergarten and not start school until they are ready. Today we are discussing the second piece, namely that children should have the opportunity to stay in the nursery and start in kindergarten when they are ready. I think it is a pity that the SF has not made this proposal with the rest of us, because I think we could have done better together. First of all, there's something about the name. It is, if I may tease you a little in the SF, as if you've got that thing at least a little bit on your brain. It sounds good in an election campaign that there are minimum standards and minimum age, but in reality I think we would do well to call this the right to be in the crèche until you are 3 years old, because you also have the right to start earlier, if that is what you as parents want for your child. Secondly, there is also a question of phasing in. It is of course very important when we make this change that we are going to do it wisely so that we do not end up in a situation in those cities where there is already a shortage of crèche places, where, from one day to the next, parents run the risk of being left without a crèche place and have to come up with all sorts of strange solutions because they cannot get their children to start. So, of course, we have to think about that when we do it. Thirdly, I have a radical problem with SF's economy. We therefore support the proposal, but we have our own funding for it. Then I would like to say to the government that it is quite fair that we have as much disagreement on child policy as we are in all sorts of other areas here in the Folketing. But I have to say that I do not give much for the Minister's two arguments here today. Firstly, we hear that it will not then be an individual assessment and that it is today an individual assessment. Listen, that's wrong. Well, today it's not an individual assessment. Today, it has just been decided that children should start when they are 2 years and 10 months old. This isn't gonna get any worse. Secondly, we hear that it must be up to such a professional assessment, but it is not a professional assessment today; it is not educational; it is only savings in the municipalities that make a decision that you can save some money by children starting earlier in kindergarten. In the Radical Left, we will do what we can to ensure that we have proper standards and that children can have a good day-care life, as it used to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319200617	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no brief comments, and that is why we shall turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Jacob Mark of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319200629	It is as if in Danish politics there has been a tendency for many years to push children away faster and faster, regardless of what is best for the child, but with regard to what is best for the municipality or state treasury. Children are being sent home faster from the maternity wards because the kingdom lacks money. Children are being pressured faster from crèche to kindergarten. That's what this proposal is about. There are also fewer adults in both the crèche and the kindergarten, because the kingdom lacks money. From kindergarten they have to move on to school faster, as it is cheaper to have them there. In youth education, in higher education, in the labour market all the way, it has been such a trend for a number of years that these children cannot get on fast enough. I would like, and SF would like, that trend to reverse, and that in future we should be based on what is best for the children and not on what is best for the state or municipality treasury. That is really why we are making this proposal, because we have been able to see that for a number of years it has been the case that the municipalities have been saving money, in other words making major budget decisions to move the children away earlier, because it is cheaper to have a child walking in a kindergarten than in a crèche. Then it is not based on what the child needs; then it is based on making the calculation go up. In the municipality of Brøndby, a very clear example is given as an institution approx. 147,000 kr. to have a child walking in the crèche and approx. 87,000 kr. to have a child walking in kindergarten. When you change age, so children get faster in kindergarten, yes, then there's less money to run day offers for. In 2008, 12 municipalities passed the children from crèche to kindergarten before they were 3 years old, and today it is half of the country's municipalities. And it just shows that the trend has also been made here. It's not about the children; it's not about what's good for the children; it's not about what's educational right; it's not about what the professionals think; it's not about what the local leaders think; and it's not about what the parents think. It is about how we make the economy go up, and we must stop thinking about child politics that way. So this proposal is basically and simply about giving the staff and parents the freedom to choose for themselves when it is best for the child to go further. Mrs Lindahl's children's day-care facilities would allow the SF's proposals to be adapted in the future, just as they wish, but there will be more money to do so because no decision has been taken by the local authorities that the children should hurry. There will be no age-integrated institutions that will lose freedom. On the contrary, the old-age institutions will be given freedom because they are not financially penalised. The freedom to decide for yourself what is best for the child has been introduced. Well, I don't know if it was an argument for the occasion that this was supposed to be more rigid rules, but it's more rigit that you've got a forced decision from the municipality that the kids have to move when they've reached this particular age. That's also why it annoys me a little bit. In fact, I hear that the rapporteurs recognise that this is a problem. I actually think I would like to tell Mrs Anni Matthiesen a secret, who said: Jacob Mark is a councilman. I have also been, and when I became a council member in 2010, it was decided in Køge Municipality to lower the age from 3 years to 2 years and 10 months, because we had to save 200 million. kr. And then it was only a few years after the teachers were really called out and said: this has harmful consequences for the children, it is not based on what is best for the children, it is bad for the standards, and the educators are pressed because they are too small when they get to the nursery room. Then we changed it again to three years. And it is true that we had the freedom to change it back because we had a positive economic outcome that year and because we actually chose to prioritise it, that is to say to take the money from something else. It is quite true that out of town you have that choice. Unfortunately, for many years the elections have been constantly pushing the children faster, and that is why we say stop. It must be based on what the children have best of, and not on what the municipalities' municipal funds have best of. This applies to minimum standards when we talk about whether there are enough adults. That is also true in relation to whether we should push children off. We do not think that should be done. So we're working on this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteurs who support it. I will try, with all my heart, to make the positive spirit of the Social Democratic Party reflect in the rapporteur's speech when we are going to vote, and if only to continue to do so, when we hopefully have a majority after an election, so that it can become a reality. Thank you to the alternative, which I hope has been answered in my speech and to Mr Enhedslisten's question. Jakob Silver Mound, who backs up. And I would also like to thank Mrs Lotte Rod for her support. I understand that we will find funding in different places. We can negotiate for that. I think it is a good proposal for a name, and I promise to bring the Radicals when we make this proposal again, because that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201221	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201243	Thank you. We're gonna deal with Bill No. L 207, which deals with how to calculate fuel consumption of vehicles, which are of course used to set registration and fuel consumption tax. This is happening today according to the so-called NEDC method. Back in the autumn of last year, in September, it was decided that we should now move to the so-called WLTP method on 1 April, which will therefore give a more accurate picture of how far the vehicles are running on the liter, so to speak, and thus also a more accurate taxation. The draft law then provides for the transitional period for determining the fuel consumption of cars to be extended by the NEDC method until the end of 2020. It has its justification in the uncertainty associated with concrete measurements of the cars that have been type-approved according to the new calculation model, i.e. simply whether it is the correct conversion factor that was put into the legislation back in September last year, which therefore had to be multiplied by 1.21 for petrol cars in order to make a conversion which at the same time ensured that car taxation overall did not increase. In fact, the uncertainty which has arisen now that the Treasury has to recognise that the correct conversion factor cannot be provided has been pointed out by the industry on several occasions as far back as when we were discussing the last year, but only here for the eleventh hour has it become so clear to the Minister of Taxation and the Ministry of Taxation that this conversion factor cannot be implemented in a reassuring way and that, therefore, shortly before it comes into force, we must ask for urgent action on this bill and for a postponement of the date of entry into force of the new method of calculation. It would clearly have been best if we could now make the correct conversion factor, that you actually had so well managed that you could do the calculation and have the new calculation method of the cars implemented. We must then acknowledge that we are just not there. There is simply not a good enough basis for the Treasury to say that it is the right conversion factor or so far to say what it should be. That is why it is proposed to extend the transitional period and we will continue to run the NEDC method for some time to come. I think that is both politically regrettable because we would have liked to have had the new conversion factor, the new calculation method, but of course not a good way of being legislators, that we should have to change it here at the eleventh hour. Nevertheless, what we are standing there, and it is also, we think, a necessity for us to do so. So we will support the urgency of the legislative proposal and will also support the legislative proposal itself. The consultation answers do the same, but in general it is also the case that it is pointed out that it would be preferable to find a lasting solution and that a correct conversion could be made now. But the most important thing for us in this situation must be to ensure that car taxes are guaranteed and that the necessary time is allowed to come up with a correct and lasting solution. It has been calculated that there is no revenue effect in the legislative proposal, and also that there is no impact on the environment. Nevertheless, we would like to use the committee procedure to ask a little about the climate effect, whether there is one of the legislative proposals, because one of the points of moving to the new method of calculation would be to get a more accurate picture of what the fuel consumption of cars actually is. This would push a little towards car prices in the various segments, and therefore we should hope that it would mean that we would have an advantage for cars that run longer on the liter. We would like to ask what the effect of extending the current method of calculation will be. It could, of course, be up to date to listen to some of the proposals we have made on how to spread green car types more quickly in return. This parliamentary term has, of course, most of all been about changing general car taxation and typically making ordinary fossil-powered cars cheaper, but that too little has been done to spread the green car types. As you know, we would have liked to have discussed this on a number of occasions: introducing a greener company car tax, making more company cars be especially electric cars, but also to a greater extent that the municipalities' cars could be, and that we are doing more to strengthen the infrastructure around the electric cars, etc. This could also be an occasion for that. With those comments, however, I should like to give the Social Democrats' agreement to the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201751	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201758	Thank you for that, President. As our tax rapporteur is prevented from being here today, I will read the Danish People's Party's rapporteur's speech. When buying a car in Denmark, part of the tax depends on how far the car runs on its fuel source. It has been known to most people that when you buy a car, the calculated kilometer, which is on the sales layout, is very rare for what the car is really driving. To solve this problem, the EU has introduced a measurement method called WLTP. This is clearly positive, as the new method shows more correct consumption. The challenge has been that some cars with the new measurement method will rise in price here from 1 April when the transitional regime expires. I believe that most people have seen the many car advertisements that encourage buying before they increase. It has created a lot of uncertainty. In the Danish People's Party, we think it is positive that there should be a more accurate measurement method, but we do not want consumers to suffer in the form of higher taxation. We therefore think it is a good idea that this legislative proposal extends the transitional period until the end of 2020. We agree that this is a permanent solution, but it makes good sense to postpone it until 2020, as the Folketing will then look at the taxation of cars and transport in general, in the light of the work of the Green Transport Commission set up to ensure a more environmentally friendly transport sector. Against this background, I can inform you that the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201934	Thank you, Mrs Susanne Eilersen. Then I welcome Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319201947	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. The former rapporteurs have already explained to a great extent what this bill is about. It is a question of extending the current transitional period so that it runs until 2020. After all, it is because the government has set up a commission to look at how we can get 1 million green cars by 2030. They must come up with their proposals by 2020, and then it is obvious that it is at that time that we are also looking at the fuel consumption issue. So in order to make sure what it is actually the cars cost and not to have too much uncertainty, we think it is a very good idea to extend this transition period. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202031	Thank you so much. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Jakob Silver Mound, Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202045	Thank you. In the absence of our tax rapporteur, it has become my task to regret the fact that billions of dollars do not come into the treasury because cars in misleading tests appear more environmentally friendly than they really are. This has meant that the Danish Treasury has been cheated for no less than 24 billion. kr. in the period 2010-2016 and in our view this is a scandal which is twice as big as the infamous tax scandal. In 2016 alone, the common fund missed more than 6 billion. kr. in revenue. Something may be the result of cheating and deception. Among other things: Volkswagen was forced in 2015 to admit that they had installed cheat software in their cars so that the cars appeared less polluting in tests. But the main problem is that cars are tested with a laboratory test rather than under realistic circumstances, the so-called Real Driving Emission tests. The extent of the scandal can be read in a report prepared by the Green Group in the European Parliament in March 2018. One thing is that the state has missed and continues to miss billions of kroner, which in itself is horrible because these are funds that could have been used to lower the prices of public transport or lower the charges on electric cars to promote the green switch-over, but it is equally horrible that consumers have been cheated because there are a lot of people who have bought a car that cannot drive the number of kilometres on the gallon that they have been promised. It is subversive to climate and environmental policy that we cannot rely on information about the pollution of cars because we do not have the right information to be able to organise our policy in this area. Parliament has decided to introduce a more accurate test, which has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, namely the WLTP test. It is not a Real Driving test, but it is better than the one we have today, and Enhedslisten supports the progress that lies in moving to this test. However, in the Enhedslisten we have not been able to support what a large majority in the Danish Parliament has agreed in connection with the adoption of L 237 in 2017, namely that when the WLTP test is introduced and the cars have to pay more of the taxes they should have paid all the time, then the charges should be reduced accordingly. As you know, when we treat the draft law here as an urgent proposal, it is because the government has become in doubt as to whether the calculation has been correctly applied in relation to the cancellation of the increase in car charges. The unit list cannot support the postponement of the introduction of the WLTP test. We should have introduced this more accurate test for the pollution of cars long ago, and by postponing the introduction of the test more polluting cars will still appear in too environmentally friendly a light. At the same time, we have disagreed from the outset that lower car taxes should be introduced corresponding to the additional revenue by introducing WLTP. Should there be any additional revenue from introducing the test now, it will be a plus only to our eyes, because we want to use such additional revenue to promote the transition to green transport and to electric cars. Against this background, Enhedslisten cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202423	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound, and a warm welcome to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202431	Thank you for that, President. This urgent proposal is an expression of the fact that the Folketing is taking the side of the citizens, and this is because doubts have arisen as to whether the transition to the new WLTP system will lead to higher charges for the citizens of this country, which is already plagued by the world's highest car charges. Since there has been an intention to reduce car taxes three times since the elections, we want to eliminate any doubt that this should be the case, i.e. that the new system should lead to higher charges for citizens. That is why we are extending the transition period from the old system to the new system, and that is, of course, very, very good. For, of course, we must ensure that citizens who already pay too much in car taxes will pay no more than the political intention is with the latest agreement on lower car charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202551	You're welcome, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. And welcome to Mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319202609	Thank you for that, President. In the alternative, we have supported the urgency of this proposal, in that I believe that when it turns out in a moment that the proposal has a majority and will be adopted there is a reason for it to come into force on a certain date so that there is no confusion during a transitional period. If we didn't let it be dealt with urgently, there would be a month of some kind of chaos around this pricing. This does not mean, however, that we are in favour of this proposal as a whole. As a whole, we cannot support the proposal at all, nor did we support the proposal last time it was up. For many years ahead, passenger cars have escaped unduly cheaply compared to registration fees and ownership fees due to, among others, Car manufacturers are cheating on this area of car pollution. This will then be corrected by a new method of measurement from the European Union, but the government will not really correct it. The government, on the other hand, will use the opportunity to compensate for this by easing taxes. It is, in fact, just another discount for the car market, and we heard from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur that this is very positive. I think it is more a scandal that we are now standing, as we are doing today, when perhaps we should think a little more about the environment, also in relation to the consequences of this. The fact that it should be a little cheaper for consumers to buy some cars that pollute a little more is completely contrary to the logic that we in the alternative think should be in place right now. It may well be that consumers suffer a little and that it will be a little more expensive if you want to buy some cars that use petrol and pollute the environment a little more, but that is exactly what we think is a sensible pricing, a sensible way of doing so, and then instead of spending the money to make it cheaper for cars that do not pollute; so that we in society at all are beginning to think a little more about having a principle whereby it is the polluter who pays the real costs that various parts of our society have for the economy as a whole and for the environment and for people, and that we are not simply thinking of the economic advantage of this proposal and of all sorts of other proposals. We simply think it should be made cheaper to consume in a way that serves our planet. At the same time, however, it may cost more if you consume in a way that is particularly harmful to nature, the environment and climate. The polluter has to pay so that we ensure that products and transport and food have a price that actually corresponds to the socio-economic consequences and, as I said, it could be a electric car. I think this proposal is completely in the wrong direction. I think it might have been mentioned earlier as a question from one of the other rapporteurs: will this then lead to higher or lower CO2 it might be interesting to know. Will it contribute to the realisation of the government's plan that more people should buy electric cars, more green electric cars? I mean, we hear so much about this plan, but now it's a commission that we have to wait for, and of course I can see the reasoning that we can postpone these things until this commission is done. At the same time, I think that there is an inability to act when it comes to climate. Recently we heard that, yes, we need a climate bill. It was an excellent proposal that came from the citizens and that was discussed in this Chamber, where the whole intention was really supported by one hundred per cent, but it just needs to take a little longer. When it comes to the fact that there are some consumers at risk of having to pay a slightly higher price for their cars, then we can really trade and then it can just go fast and then it has to go over the weekend. However, a climate law that actually protects the environment and the climate and people is something that must take years. It has to be in a commission. We must consider this and take note of all the good that has been said, but we cannot really vote to do anything about it. I do not know whether that was apparent from what I just mentioned, but we do not support the proposal in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203039	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203042	In fact, I agree with much of what the rapporteur said, at least what was about the polluter having to pay. That's a very good principle. But then I just do not understand that the rapporteur is not in favour of lower taxes on cars, because if the polluter has to pay, the polluter has to cover the costs of that activity, for example. driving a car. That's what the car owners do. They're paying an overpriced price. They pay much, much more: 16 billion. kr. more than the costs they impose on society in terms of pollution, in terms of road wear, road accidents, etc. So the drivers pay and they pay an overcharge. They pay too much. So if the rapporteur really cares about the 'polluter pays' principle, then the rapporteur should be in favour of reducing car taxes rather than rising.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203143-2	Thank you. Now I don't know the numbers you're referring to there. And it's just gratifying if there's some kind of reasonableness in it. However, I believe that precisely in this area of transport we actually have a real alternative, namely the green cars, which we have heard the government talk a lot about. And then it is that I think we can put the taxes on those cars that pollute more and put them down on the green cars. So it is not because, as a whole, I want more taxes on transport. I just want us to encourage the choice of more environmentally friendly solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203222	Nowadays, if you buy a fossil-free car, you don't pay taxes on the first DKK 400,000. So there are very low taxes on green cars, if you like. I do not really know what to call it, but I think it is a little bit problematic that when you stand and talk about some fine principles that the polluter has to pay for it and they have to pay for it when they buy a car and so on. That's not a secret number. Peter Birch Sørensen had an article in Politiken the other day, where he wrote that drivers already pay overpriced. The wise men have been out saying it. It's not secret at all. It's quite common knowledge. So it is just that if you have such principles that are good, you should also know that in this area motorists are paying in advance and they are even paying in excess.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203325	I think, as I said, that we can do even better in this area and that it is quite right that we should differentiate the tax on various types of cars. I do not believe that we, as Danes, cannot afford a car and I believe that we are in a situation where the climate is really important. It is important that we give priority to all kinds of issues. And if the Liberal Alliance has become a supporter of this polluter pays principle, then I think we should make some calculations for all sorts of other parts of society where we can transfer it here and have it debated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203404	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, there are no more brief comments, and I warmly welcome Mr Graakjær Grantzau. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203415	In Denmark, a car owner can be deducted from the registration fee for a car if it drives a number of kilometres on the liter. Unfortunately, the number of kilometres on the liter that has been calculated has proved to be wrong. It is a European standard that has been updated, and it must then also be updated in Danish law at some point. And that will mean that a number of cars will be more expensive because they are running less on the liter than they had previously thought. In the Radical Left, we think that from the very start we should have introduced this new standard, and the money that had been added could have been used to lighten the tax on cars on renewable energy or cars, which are hybrid cars that are on both fossil and renewable energy. It has chosen a majority to postpone, and it should then be put into effect here on 1 April, that is to say in the near future. I think there are many of us who have noticed that the car industry has been advertising that you should buy your car by 1 April, when prices will rise, and now the government will be coming in at the eleventh hour, so you have to say, and will have dealt with an urgent bill that can come into force before 1 April, so that car prices do not rise there. We think you should've figured it out sooner if it's really true that it's because you can't figure it out. We think it is more because once again there is no political will to change the registration tax in the green direction, and because at this stage we do not want to increase car taxation on cars for which an improper deduction has been made, because we have thought that they have been running longer on the litre than that. That is why we cannot support the bill. It follows, as other rapporteurs have said, that we were also opposed to an earlier draft law on the same subject. We also think that, in the interests of consumers, this new standard should be put into effect, so that a car owner pays the tax to which the number of kilometres that his car can drive at 1 l is appropriate. That is why we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203634	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319203648	To those who follow the debate, I can tell you that, to help us politicians, we get what is called a consultation note when we have to deal with a legislative proposal, and it is consultation answers that have been obtained from stakeholders, from people who know something about it, hopefully, and who can comment on the bill. I think it is a little telling in relation to this draft law that, firstly, it is quite clear, it is quite short, and it is probably due to the urgency of the matter, but it is also mainly car organisations that have given back answers and no green organisations, for example, have provided a hearing response. I would just like to highlight one of them, which I think is a little interesting. It is from the Danish Car Industry Council that calls for the debate on vehicle taxes to generally be held at as low and quiet a level as possible, and they recommend that, in relation to the further process, when the extended transitional period has expired, it should take place quietly. And of course I know what the Danish Car Industry Council thinks, that is, that the prices are sensitive, compared to the fact that we have these debates. I just thought this was a little telling, because if we were on the right track, we could talk a little more quietly and quietly, but the problem is that there has been a zigzag course for years in this area, at least from the time when charges were imposed on electric cars, and this has been a conflicting area of zigzag course. This is really about more than a calculation of fuel consumption. It is about how we are going to achieve the green transition to private transport, which is a fairly large emitter of CO2 We have to live up to the Paris agreement, but we also have to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. And the Prime Minister stood on this platform and said that now we should have a million electric cars on the roads. And what followed was a deal that delivered 1,000 electric cars or what was sold in less than 2 days of petrol cars. We have never had so many petrol cars on the roads, and again this discussion is being shot to the corner in relation to a commission being set up according to the government. We need to take action and it is urgent to find a lasting solution to how we can achieve what the Prime Minister said about 1 million electric cars. Because it's easy to promise it, the hard part is to implement it. In relation to the very specific legislative proposal, we have three questions for the tax minister, and the question is that we cannot quite understand that it should not have a revenue significance. The car industry has, of course, welcomed the fact that many have used the argument that it will stop a number of car price increases and therefore we want answers as to whether it is correct that the price of some cars will be lower with the delay than without, and what examples might be of it. We also want answers to which cars it is about, where the price will be higher with the postponement than without, and how the Treasury comes to the conclusion that the revenue from the registration fee will not change as a result of the postponement. Intuitively, it seems a little difficult to understand. These are some written questions we want to ask the tax minister in this urgent committee work that needs to be done. But I think I can already say that the SF will not support it. We think that this issue is simply too important and that it is too urgent that we should not have sat together long ago and made an ambitious agreement. It is always the case that you turn a little different buttons, and we do not get to the end of it. And I almost wish that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen asks me the question why the registration fee contributes more than 16 billion. kr. more than the socio-economic costs, because I think that discussion is also interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204150	Well, we'll be able to find out soon enough, for sir. Joachim B. Olsen has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204155	That is not the question I intended to ask, but now I have the opportunity to ask two, because I would like to make Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen happy. The first is more of a matter of principle. Is it really SF's view that business should dictate what we are discussing or not discussing? Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen read from the hearing reply, which recommended that this debate should take place quietly. Should we not agree that we politicians have freedom of expression and we are debating exactly what we want to debate, whether it makes somebody in the business community angry or sad?
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204236	I read it out because I thought it was a little interesting in terms of whether or not you should. It is also an area that is really very sensitive to political discussions, but my point was that if, as a car industry, you want things to be quiet and so on, it is just not possible right now in this area, because it is so important that we get that change, and so we cannot ■ as I actually hear Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said that he would live up to that wish, because it is political and also conflicting material, because it is about more than cars, namely where we are going as a society. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen has some very ideological views on the tax side, and so do I, but with the aim that we are incredibly busy if we are to achieve our climate objectives in transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204339	I just have a feeling that had it been in all sorts of other areas where there had been someone from the business community who had said that we should not talk so much about that, then the SF would not have accepted such a wish. We do not either, because we think that car taxes are too high, and we are going to say that, and it may be that it annoys somebody so much. That is our position on it. However, in relation to car taxes, they are too high in relation to the costs that carism imposes on society. I fully agree that the polluter has to pay it's a good principle, but it does the drivers already when they have paid the tax on their petrol, and I am just of the opinion that 1 t CO 2 2 Today the drivers are being overtaxed, and I just don't see that being very sensible, and I don't even think that is very ideological. It is just not very wise to overtax somewhere while perhaps undertaxing elsewhere. But pollution should be taxed equally if it is the same type and amount of pollution, no matter how it is emitted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204457	In fact, only 30 seconds have been allocated to Question No. 2, but since it's a complicated question, it goes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204458	Thank you. I just have to say very quickly that it wasn't because I was going to be prepared for the wish that was from the Danish Car Industry Council, but I just thought it was a little interesting. However, we cannot live up to this precisely because of the concerns that the rapporteur has also raised, namely that this is very political. In relation to the question I actually wanted to ask, I would say that when the hole in the ozone layer blew loose and people were very worried at the time, one might well have calculated some price at what it cost and said: we should not fix it; we should just find the right price in relation to the gases that cause the ozone hole. This is something we need to solve, no matter what the socio-economic burden is, because we shouldn't have fossil cars, we shouldn't have them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204604	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen for an equally thorough answer. And then the ride's come to sir. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204615	Thank you very much. As several rapporteurs have said, the aim of the draft law here is to extend the transitional arrangements which were made in connection with the calculation of vehicle taxes. This is something that has been done to calm down the charges, even so that we do not run the risk of increasing the new calculation methods, for we certainly do not want that from the conservative side. In recent years, we have managed to reduce car taxes by several rounds, and we think that is very good. In fact, we also want even lower car taxes, but also more environmentally friendly taxes, in the sense that taxes must be reduced most for the cars that pollute the least. That is why we are also eagerly waiting for this Green Transport Commission, which has been set up, to come up with proposals on how we can recalculate our car taxes so that they also support a green conversion of our transport. Because we need to get turbo on it, and here, of course, the tax structure also has a role to play. That is our long-term objective, and it must be, but in the short run we want to calm down on car taxes and, in particular, ensure that car taxes do not increase. That is why we also support the extension of the transitional regime and support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204737	Thank you very much, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments, so that is why we have come to the tax minister. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319204748	Thank you, President. I now have 15 minutes at my disposal, and I do not want to spend all of them, because many rapporteurs have mentioned things in the past. But when I, as tax minister on behalf of the government, have put forward this bill, it is to ensure peace of the car charges. This also suggests that there will be a majority in favour of at least examining the proposal and I would like to sign and thank you for the fact that no one is blocking the draft law and also a relatively broad majority. When we have put it forward, it is because, as I have said, uncertainty has been created as to what to pay in car taxation. There will be a new method of conversion. In the autumn Parliament decided that the fuel standard from 1 April should be calculated according to the new WLTP method, which should give a more accurate picture of actual fuel consumption. A different method has been used in the past during the transitional period, namely the NEDC2 method, but it has been shown, as I said, that there is uncertainty as to whether, with the change we are now making with the new method of measurement, we have hit the conversion factor correctly. The car industry has created uncertainty about this. They have an interest in that, one has to hurry up to say, but as the tax minister said to the car industry at the meetings they have been to in the Treasury: you have to give the figures and we have to analyze the figures. When you look at the figures in the Treasury, it's hard to say that the car industry is right. If we thought they had it, we should put forward a proposal for a different conversion factor. Conversely, it is also difficult to deny that they may have a point in relation to whether we have hit correctly. That is why the government has openly chosen to remove that uncertainty by extending the transitional regime. The conclusion of this will then coincide with the fact that the Green Transport Commission is scheduled to report. Then you can look at whether the conversion factor has been right and what the correct conversion fact has to be forward-looking, and then there is tranquillity about car taxation. Whether we can be quiet, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also mentioned in her reading of part of the consultation answer from one of those who is entitled to a hearing, I cannot say, but then at least there is peace of mind as to what to pay in taxation, and also calm about the three reductions in car taxation that the government has carried out with the Danish People's Party since 2015, which has made the cars cheaper and which I, as Minister of Taxation, am certainly proud of. This should not be an obstacle to something tax-technical. That is why, as I said, we are proposing to extend the transitional regime until the end of 2020. This will mean that from 1 April there will be no change in the way in which fuel consumption and car taxes for new cars are fixed. So there is security and tranquillity for those who might consider buying a new car also after 1 April. I would like to thank the consultation parties for the answers received, not only the response which included recommendations that we as politicians should remain calm, but also all the other answers. There has been an extremely short period of consultation over the presentation, and this is due to the fact that we had to reach it by 1 April. But thank you for the fact that those who have sent in hearings have done so quickly. In relation to comments on what has been said here today, I can say to the SF that we will look forward to answering the written and quite reasonable questions about the effects. Turning to another method of conversion, there are some cars that will be cheaper and some cars that will be more expensive, and we have then tried to strike a balance so that the overall car tax is the same, and we can easily answer which cars will be cheaper under certain conditions and which will be more expensive. To the alternative, I'll tell you what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also mentioned that this principle of the polluter having to pay, which I agree with completely, is being followed in the car sector, in fact to far too large a extent, in relation to what is socio-economically sensible. So, if you were to go into it at last, you would have to take the tax burden on some other things where you do not take off the derived costs in relation to pollution. For our high car tax also leads to people driving their cars for much longer than it really makes sense, and there are a lot of old and less environmentally friendly cars out there that should be switched out with new and more environmentally friendly cars, and that therefore prevents our high taxes. We can then patch that up with scrapping premiums and other things, but we have too much, far too much car taxation also in relation to an environmental agenda. On the other hand, it can of course be said that when we reduce car taxation, there will be more cars. It also causes some problems. There are different things, and the short answer is that it is not quite simple, but the charges are also seen from a polluter having to pay-perspectives - too high in Denmark, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned it. Then there was the Enhedslisten. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is not present in this Chamber, and that was also stated by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur as something, Enhedslisten's tax rapporteur, Mr. Rune Lund, in fact, had written. And Mr. Rune Lund tends to be very industrious, so he will probably follow the debate at home or see it afterwards. And then he can see my answer here: it is not true that some people have cheated and cheated the Treasury for a large billion dollars, as a result of some car manufacturers miscalculating how far a car travels on the gallon. It is true that if you had calculated it differently and more correctly, there would have been more money in the box. But that money is not in the pockets of some crooks; the money is in the pockets of people who have bought a car cheaper than they would otherwise have. This has led, moreover, to people buying larger cars and typically also more environmentally friendly cars, because the Danes have a car budget. And we can see that when we lower the tax, people spend roughly the same, but they buy some slightly larger cars, and they are typically more environmentally friendly and typically also run a little longer on the liter. They are also safer, which means fewer people are injured in traffic. So the fact that some money has not come into the box has brought some other positive things with it: we have got cheaper cars, surely more environmentally friendly cars and, with a certain probability, also more roadworthy cars. The money is certainly not in the pockets of some crooks, and therefore it cannot be compared with the profit and other things. That's not true. I think that is what I have to say here today, and we are looking forward to a speedy reading of the committee. We must, of course, make every effort on the part of the Treasury to respond quickly to the questions that must be so that we can deal with the bill so that it can enter into force and we do not want anyone to be affected by any increases that a large majority of the Folketing does not want.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319205514	I think the Minister's eight minutes will be the last. There are certainly no brief comments. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190319205533	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for a long day's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 20 March 2019 at 10:00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
