ParlaMint-DK_20190117100050	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100113	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100125	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that a further condition be placed on becoming a Danish citizen, namely that an applicant should be married to a Danish citizen resident in Denmark, that the marriage should have lasted for three years before an application for citizenship is made, and that the spouses have lived together throughout the period. The government cannot support the motion for a resolution. It is a very special privilege to be granted Danish citizenship, and we are therefore already making quite high demands on those who wish to become a Danish citizen, high but also reasonable demands. As you know, the government, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats in June last year, entered into a new citizenship agreement in which we tightened several of the conditions for becoming a Danish citizen. I think it's a really good deal we made. It is simply a great declaration of confidence from Danish society to be granted Danish citizenship, and as an applicant you must also show that you want Denmark. The agreement therefore makes even greater demands on oneself to be able to support oneself, that one should have made an active and real effort to learn Danish, and then we put down a hard fight against crime. However, the Government cannot support the proposal that it should then also be a requirement that the applicant be married to a Danish citizen. It is clear from the motion for a resolution that the authors of the motion for a resolution include: believes that, in addition to the other conditions, it is also important to keep in mind that the applicants are well integrated in Denmark and that a marriage with a Danish citizen for at least 3 years will be a good indicator that Denmark will actually be an applicant. I fully agree with the proposers that it is important for an applicant to be well integrated in Denmark and that Denmark is wanted. It is a gift to become a Danish citizen, and it must be something to reach out for, and that is also why we make high demands to become a Danish citizen, among other things. requirements for residence, self-reliance, language, knowledge of Danish social conditions, Danish culture and history. However, by demanding that an applicant be married to a Danish citizen, we risk excluding a number of people who actually meet these language requirements, self-reliance, that they have stayed out of crime. In addition, we exclude children who, of course, cannot meet the requirement, and we therefore run the risk of excluding a number of people who are well integrated and actually want Denmark. The person who meets all the conditions and who has done everything that could be desired for him to become a part of Danish society, but just has not just succeeded in love, we end up ruling out the possibility. I do not think we can do that, and I do not think it is fair either. It must also be said that there are already more flexible residence requirements for applicants who are married to Danish nationals. An applicant who is married to a Danish citizen may obtain Danish citizenship after 6-8 years of continuous residence depending on the duration of the marriage, contrary to the general starting point, which is 9 years of uninterrupted stay. Such an applicant would thus, provided that he fulfils all the other conditions, not have to wait as long as he becomes a Danish national. However, as I said, it is important for an applicant to want Denmark and for one to make an effort, and when a person does so, I think we should recognise it and give him the gift of becoming a Danish citizen and who they have so fully earned, even if he has not just succeeded in finding a Danish citizen to whom he could marry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100602	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100607	About 60 000 citizenships have been given in the last ten years. My question to the Minister is: is that a fair figure? I can't believe it's actually scary many; I do. I think it is frightening that many people, also on the assumption that one must be Danish in the heart to have citizenship, and I do not feel at all convinced that all the people we give Danish citizenship are. That is also why we have then voted against the law on citizenship several times since I began as a native court rapporteur in 2011. But does the minister think that this number of 60,000 is a good number?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100702	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100703	In fact, I find it difficult to put a number on it, because what it must be about is whether we actually meet the requirements that we make of becoming a Danish citizen. And these are demands that we have screwed on several laps and to say what it is that has been considerably tightened on, also with the Danish People's Party, last summer. And if you meet the requirements, then you stay out of crime, support yourself, learn the language and have the knowledge needed for Danish history and culture, and have proved it through testing, then you have to have Danish citizenship. But it should not be easy to obtain Danish citizenship, and neither is it; it is something to reach out for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100752	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100754	I mean, I have noted in the discussion we have had many times not only with the Minister but also with the rest of Things that there is simply a basic pretext in which I totally disagree with all other parties. The basic preface is that what is essential in the granting of citizenship is the consideration that is shown to Denmark and the Danes not only by handing out citizenship, but by making it a rare event where the people who are so really Danish in the heart can acquire citizenship. I just think that this proposal is intended to prevent so many from getting citizenship; I still think it is too many.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100844	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100846	It is quite all right to think that there are too many people who get Danish citizenship. That is why we have tightened up the rules, in other words to make sure that the people who acquire Danish citizenship are people who want to take Denmark in; that it is people who have reached out for it. However, if you then meet the conditions, I also believe that you should have granted that citizenship. Then there is no point in saying: You must also have just found love in Denmark and been married to him or her for a number of years. So it must be the demands of self-reliance that you have knowledge of Danish culture and history, that you have stayed out of crime and the whole series of tough demands that apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100938	Thank you. Then we move on to a new rapporteur. There are no more comments. And this is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117100953	Thank you for the floor. The authors of this motion for a resolution wish to make it a requirement to be married to a Danish national resident in Denmark for at least three years in order to obtain Danish citizenship. I share the opinion of the authors of the motion that it is important for foreigners to be rapidly integrated into Danish society, that they become part of Denmark, just as we in the Social Democratic Party believe it is important that we make great demands and have high expectations of foreigners who want to obtain Danish citizenship. That is why I am also pleased that the demands for citizenship have been tightened up, most recently with the political agreement of last summer, as the Minister also mentioned, where we have tightened the standard of conduct, among other things. in relation to gang crime and sex crimes, where we were given greater attention to the possibility of disqualification of citizenship, where we had the documentation requirements strengthened in the cases of disease and where we had the requirements for self-reliance tightened. And then we tightened the requirements for the applicant's efforts to have acquired the Danish language. The language is an absolutely essential condition for becoming an active part of the community and Denmark. So there are many relevant and important demands we are making today for future Danish citizens. It is a demand for language, self - support, law - abidingness and social knowledge. I fully agree with the proposers that we achieve better integration, the more we interfere with each other, the more we are part of each other's school life, working life, leisure and family life. That is why the Social Democratic Party also has an integration policy which, among other things, includes: is based on a number of proposals for diversification, that is to say proposals to ensure that non-western immigrants are not concentrated in selected residential areas, selected schools and day care centres, but are spreading and actually living a life with, and not with, the rest of us. In addition, we are also part of the political agreement that must come to an end with parallel societies. But we cannot support a demand that you marry a resident Danish citizen in order to obtain Danish citizenship. We are not in favour of forced marriage either when it is imposed on religion or when it is imposed politically. You have to marry for love and not for citizenship, and then we politicians have to push on to help and make sure that love can arise because people meet. This possibility is provided by the legislation that opens up for us to get to know each other, where we work, where we live, and where our children have their everyday suggestions that make us share everyday life here in Denmark together, that we have a co-life and not parallel life. Against this background, I must inform you that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101230	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Langballe for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101234	Thank you. Well, that forced marriage thing I hadn't seen coming. In fact, I believe that people will marry voluntarily, and that is, of course, also provided for in the proposal, but leave it at that. I think that is a strange interpretation of it, but peace be with it. I would actually like to ask the same question that I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is: does the rapporteur think that 60 000 citizenships in the last 10 years are a reasonable figure? Well, as I said, it's scary many. I believe that history will judge us, judge us as irresponsible and useless politicians, who first opened up mass immigration and then threw citizenship in grams. I can't believe they're gonna do that in 30-40 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101339	Well, I'd like to say that this forced marriage thing may have been an attempt to be a little funny. I agree, of course, that you can marry voluntarily, even if we implement the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution here, but I kind of agree with the Minister when she says that in this way you exclude those who have not just succeeded in love... succeeded in the great lottery of love... but who meet all other requirements and are fully as Danish as those who can gain access to citizenship and be admitted to a bill. Well, it can already be hard enough not to win in the lottery of love in life, so I think it is a wrong link to make, and that is why we reject the resolution. To the debate on numbers, I would like to say that again I am very much in line with the Minister. I know the Danish People's Party would like us to select a certain number of citizenships that can be triggered per year, but we are making tough demands. It actually takes a great deal to qualify for citizenship today, and when people then meet the requirements, when they have settled down and spent the years needed to meet the requirements and meet all the expectations we have of them, then I think they should also have citizenship. That is why it does not make much sense to set a specific number, because it depends entirely on how many meet the requirements. I am glad that we have tightened up the demands, and that has been a response to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is asking, namely whether too many have been given. Well, I think it's better rules we have after we've tightened the requirements than it was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101512	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101513	But this is where the chain gets off. I know that I disagree with all the other parties here in the Folketing. I don't think it's a human right to have citizenship. I simply do not think so. I think you can live and live in Denmark and be happy for it without having a Danish citizenship, frankly. And by the way, I know people who don't want a Danish citizenship and therefore live here without it. They are happy and happy people, but they have just not acquired citizenship because, in my opinion, it is reserved for the very, very few. In other words, the way in which one simply slaps out citizenship without ensuring that people are actually Danish in the heart I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101608	Yes, but that is probably a very correct picture the rapporteur is drawing up, namely that with this assessment he is probably in a slightly different place from, by the way, not only the rapporteurs here, I think, but also in general, in the discussion on Danish citizenship. I don't think most people recognize that you're slashing out citizenship. In the past, the rapporteur said that they were being thrown in grams. Well, these are quite tough demands we make and some very firm things we expect people to qualify for citizenship. That is true, and it is important, and it is good that we have tightened the rules. And it is also good that we have now reached an agreement where we are beginning to have increased attention to the fact that if it turns out that some people had acquired citizenship, who are criminals against the foundations, then we should also be able to look more closely at opportunities to deprive them of it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101651	The next question is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101655	I understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur believes that obtaining citizenship is a right. Now Christian Langballe mentioned it just before: It is one of our fundamental positions in the Danish People's Party that it is not If it is, then we can potentially receive half a million people who must have citizenship in 10 years' time if they all meet the conditions and want to become Danish citizens and are entitled to it because they meet the requirements. So it's just basically that we have to turn this ship around and say that no, of course you don't have a right to it. No human has. Fortunately, we have legislation that says that citizenship is given as a gift by a resolution in the Folketing. So it is simply wrong thinking to say that it is a requirement that all people on earth have if they do... etc. Just briefly: is it a right to obtain Danish citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101804	It is the Folketing that grants Danish citizenship by law. Then have a majority of parties, among others. also the Danish People's Party, in the Folketing made an agreement on what it is then for some demands we make on the people who must qualify for citizenship. After all, this is a political consensus that we have achieved. So, no, that is neither human rights nor anything else we have a right to. I didn't say that either. But that is something we have agreed on, also with the Danish People's Party, in a political agreement, which is what we must do to qualify for Danish citizenship. I would therefore like to ask what kind of foreign policy it is in relation to influx and to granting residence permits, which means that Mrs Krarup can see that half a million people will be able to qualify for this citizenship in the next few years. What kind of foreign policy are we going to pursue in relation to who comes into the country and gets the residence permit that is the starting point for the possibility of qualifying for citizenship at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101858	If there is another question, just press in. If you press the button, you have two questions, okay, it wasn't the last time I was here). Press the button, then the technique works too. She's on that's broken through). Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117101914	I hope, of course, that we will not suddenly have a large influx again as in 2015. We will do everything we can to avoid this, and we have reached a large number of agreements in the area of citizenship in order to limit the possibility of obtaining citizenship as much as possible, so that we first of all make sure that people are as Danish as possible. But the thinking that there are some objective criteria and that when you meet them you are automatically a Dane is wrong and it is dangerous and we should distance ourselves from that. For it must always be a gift to some who really, really show that they want Denmark. That is why I warn against the position expressed in the statements we are hearing from the rapporteur here. We are in favour of tightening up everywhere, we are in favour of all these agreements, but we also want to reverse the thinking so that it becomes a gift and not a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102012	It was good to find out that it is not because we have an alien policy in which we are faced with having half a million people who meet the requirements of citizenship in a moment. The temporary nature that we introduced, which is now becoming more part of our foreign policy, is also positive in the light of this discussion. Then I just want to say that I basically think that the difference is probably the one that I think it is positive when people who have their lives here in Denmark, work here and have their family have and have taken root here, also Denmark with their whole heart and apply for citizenship. I think that is actually a plus, and I will be a little proud every time I stand here on the platform when we welcome the new citizens. It is positive when you have your life in Denmark and have had it for many years and have your family here, that you then also choose Denmark so clearly for. I can only hear that the rapporteur and I probably do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102100	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. For the record, I have to repeat the rules. It is true that you have two brief comments, but you have to press both times if you want the two comments. Those are the rules. The next person to take the stand is Mr. Knox. Mads Fuglede, as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. Here you go. Sir. Christian Langballe will come later. Excuse me, President). It's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102138	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we agree with the Danish People's Party that a Danish citizenship is something very special and should only be given to those foreigners who have clearly shown that they can and will the Danish society that they have taken our values to heart. We have therefore also helped to tighten up the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship in several stages, most recently in connection with the citizenship agreement of June last year. We in the Left are satisfied with the current rules, which we believe make high but reasonable demands. Having said that, we do not think it is right for your choice of partner to have an influence on whether you can obtain Danish citizenship. For us, it is absolutely crucial that applicants can speak the Danish language, support themselves, have knowledge of Danish history and of Danish social conditions and, of course, have not been involved in serious crime, so objective criteria that say something about how well integrated the applicants are, not who they have chosen to share their lives with. If the proposal is voted through, it will mean that well-integrated couples who fully meet the strict conditions that apply today will be excluded from obtaining Danish citizenship. Furthermore, it is not clear from the motion for a resolution whether single people will be able to obtain Danish citizenship. It seems unreasonable to us. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102314	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102318	Well, I can ask the same question, because I think it is essential to have an answer as to whether the rapporteur believes that the figure of about 60 000 citizenships distributed over the last ten years is a reasonable figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102338	I think that is too high a figure, and that is why I am pleased that we reached an agreement to tighten up the requirements on how to obtain Danish citizenship. If we look into the so-called paradigm shift and the sharpenings we have already made, it is my expectation that that figure will go down, and that must be the point of our policy, not to make demands that are unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102412	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102412-2	In fact, I do not think it is unreasonable, but it is also because I am thinking from a different premise than I think the rapporteur does, because I believe that there is indeed a consideration to be given to Denmark and the Danes, and it weighs more heavily on me. You can see what's going on over there, among other Malmø. This is how Denmark could have looked if the Danish People's Party had not been there, with such civil war-like conditions. And if we imagine a projection of half a million non-western immigrants who, at some point in the next 20 to 30 years, will have citizenship, I just think that things are going in the wrong direction. That is why we have tabled this proposal, because we think it is reasonable for someone to agree to it. And so the marriage mate can vouch for that, that is, that this person has actually earned citizenship. And no, everyone shouldn't have citizenship. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102507	No, I don't want everyone to have a Danish citizenship. The Danish society must be wanted, and there must be objective criteria about that, and we have helped to tighten them up together. It should not be criteria that go on who you have chosen to share your life with, and you should not interfere in how people marry. I don't want to be involved in making legislation where you got involved. But I would very much like to be involved in making legislation that interferes with everything else, so we are sure that those who become Danish citizens are some who want Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102539	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102548	Thank you. In 2015 and 2018, significant restrictions have been made in access to becoming a Danish citizen. The Enhedslisten is outside agreements on these tightenings and wants to relax the rules on the first occasion, and we would like to return to the rules that applied under the 2013 nationality agreement, and on some points we would like to see further relaxations. The constant tightening means that in this country there is a growing group of people without Danish citizenship and thus without full civil rights. It's not good for our society. Today we are discussing a very far-reaching proposal from the Danish People's Party, which will exclude all foreigners who are not married to a Danish citizen and have not been for a number of years from becoming Danish citizens. This, of course, cannot be supported by Enhedslisten, both because it is a serious discrimination against unmarried people, but also because there is certainly no need for any further restrictions on the right to become a Danish citizen, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102656	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102656-2	Now, for the 8 to 9 years, I apologize, 7 years, I have been a member of the Folketing, I have never heard Enhedslisten put forward an overall logic that reflects the demands that it takes to obtain Danish citizenship; I have never heard anything reminiscent of demands. That is why I am not surprised, of course, that the rapporteur does not agree with the Danish People's Party. It must be given. But I just mean, i.e., I simply think it is a harmful business if it is the case that you just distribute citizenship to all kinds of people without making demands. Should you know the Danish language? So, do you have to have a stay in Denmark at all, or do we have to distribute citizenship to people who live in Germany? I mean, what kind of demands are you making? I have asked these questions a number of times, and I have never had a sober answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102811	I am well aware that since the rapporteur has been a member of the Danish Parliament for 7 years, he obviously has a busy everyday life, but I could then invite him to go to Enhedslisten's website and we have one of these called www.Enhedslisten.dk. There is a constitutional issue left from 2018, where we list some of the demands that we believe can be made in relation to being able to acquire Danish citizenship. Basically, we are convinced that if you are legally and permanently resident in this country and you know the Danish language, you also have the right to be a citizen of society and thus also the right to participate in Danish elections and to get a passport. However, it is quite clearly defined in the constitutional proposal that is in place from 2018, and I can only encourage the rapporteur to go and look at the Enhedslisten website.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102857	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102858	Well, now we have a debate here on citizenship, and I must honestly admit that what I probably do not spend the most time reading Enhedslisten's programme of principles. I don't spend time reading Enhedslisten's program of principle. I think it's a little bad for my health, too. However, I believe that when we have the debate, it must be possible to specify what kind of demands are made to become a Danish citizen: what is the level of language? Are there any residence requirements? Should you live in Denmark? Or can you be away and have it? In fact, I think there are quite a few things to which the rapporteur owes an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117102946	Well, now I do not want to be the cause of the rapporteur's health being put to the test, so I can therefore list some of it so that the rapporteur does not go into the Enhedslisten website. So what we are proposing in the first place is to relax the language requirements for it to be Danish examination 2. We also think it should be introduced that instead of taking this Danishism test, we should take a course in Danish social relations, so that citizens who apply for citizenship are aware of what kind of society they live in. Then we also believe that it is necessary to relax the length of stay so that they can follow, for example. the Swedish and Finnish rules, so they say after 5 years of residence and 4 years for refugees and stateless persons. We also want to relax the conditions for exemption from nationality requirements in relation to sickness or unemployment, and we also believe that it is necessary to relax the period of care for crime, so that citizenship is not forever excluded if, for example, you are not excluded from citizenship. has committed crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103041	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103053	Thank you for the floor. In the Liberal Alliance we basically agree with the Danish People's Party that the course that has been taken in relation to Danish citizenship over the past many years has been too lax, and that is why we have been together to tighten the rules. We also agree to go further and look at, for example. such things as the definition of self-sufficiency; we think it is actually too lenient. To anticipate Mr. Christian Langballes's question about the number of citizenships over the last ten years, I would say that, on the basis of the rules that apply today, it is quite clear that too many citizenships have been granted over the last ten years; I think we can agree on this quickly. It also has the consequence that the proposal made with B 41, unfortunately, is relatively easy to bypass, because so many citizenships have been given, while, as Mr. Mads Birded mentioned, putting single people, who otherwise meet the conditions, in a bad situation. So what I think we should be together on, that is, the circle of parties that are together on the current agreement, is to find the best possible indicators of when you have actually earned the right to become a Danish citizen, when you are properly integrated. I would also like to say for the record that it is not true that the Danish People's Party stands alone with the view that it is not a right to be a Dane. Neither does the Liberal Alliance. Being a Dane cannot be described as a negative right of freedom, and of course it can never be a negative right of freedom, so we are quite in agreement that it is not a right one has. So, for the reasons I have indicated, we agree with the intention of being restrictive in relation to the distribution of citizenship, but not the specific resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103335	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103340	Since citizenship was initially granted and now we have to go back to 1850, when the first law of citizenship came... it was actually the case that everything, trade and good conduct and personal relations were discussed here in the Chamber. Are you a real Dane? Now we have just reached a number of citizenships, so we have to make some objective demands, so there will be some in the Folketing who think it would be completely unreasonable, but I think that is how we should do it if we were finally to change it, so it was as I would like it to be. I think there is some sense in saying that a spouse can vouch for the other spouse and that this is a way of indicating that he or she is Danish. Actually, I don't think it's that crazy. Then there will be conditions that will allow you to dispense. There are already derogations, so it is just as if there are others who really can demonstrate that they are Danish, then we can take it from there. But with all the names that stand down over the page, we have no idea whether the people we grant citizenship are really Danish at heart. We don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103514	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103516	Thank you for an exciting question. If we go back to the 1850s, part of the Danish citizens then were no more Danish than that in the following decade they helped to instigate a civil war. So the way in which the whole citizenship had been constructed at that time can be discussed. After all, it will not be practical for the Danish Parliament to discuss matters relating to persons, in other words, to proceed with proceedings, here in the Chamber of Parliament. There is a great deal to change on other legislation before we can proceed in this Chamber. So I don't think that's the way forward. In fact, I think that what we agree on is that we should be very, very restrictive, but for such low-practical reasons we have to go the way where we really are squeezing by means of relatively sober criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103622	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103624	Well, I am well aware that there must be some confidentiality rules. But the fact that, overall, the Danish Parliament is discussing for each individual person pro et contra, seems to me to be entirely in agreement with the way in which citizenship was granted. And you did it because you thought that consideration for Denmark and the Danes was of course heavier than just giving out citizenship. For as Grundtvig says, they can rise against us. Well, that's what Grundtvig said!
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103702	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103703	Well, I really don't think there's any reason for that, sir. Christian Langballe and I, and thus also our parties, talk us apart. We are basically very much in agreement with the need to be very restrictive. But to tell you the truth, this proposal is too easy to bypass. Well, it's so low-practical better to be restrictive using other methods.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103729	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103733	In his speech, the rapporteur said that if you cannot become a national you are in a bad position because you cannot marry a Dane if this proposal is implemented. I would like to oppose that. You are not in a bad situation because you are not a Danish citizen. You are in an excellent situation: you can live in Denmark, you can have a permanent residence permit. There is no reason to feel sorry for people who do not have Danish citizenship. So I think that is the wrong view. On the other hand, I am pleased that the rapporteur agrees with the Danish People's Party that it can never be a right in any way to obtain Danish citizenship, and that one must always start from Denmark and the Danish people and see if there are some people who think it is wise to grant citizenship. That is what has not been done in the last many years, which has led to, I think, the biggest national disaster in Denmark's history, perhaps at all, because Denmark is no longer Danish on many points. But I would ask the rapporteur to explain why it is that you are disadvantaged if you are not a Danish citizen but live in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103849	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103850	I am really happy to have this opportunity to express myself more clearly. I do not think that we can rule out a situation where it would be entirely justified for some single person to obtain Danish citizenship and where the connection between the person seeking and being a Dane is perfect. One can think of countless situations where it can be very, very sensible for a person who, for one reason or another, is single to become a Danish citizen. When you compare it with the unresolved issues that lie in this proposal, about pro-marriage and similar things, I think it is a little arbitrary demarcation which I would be sorry to have made part of the circulars that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103947	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117103956	Thank you for that, President. Who has the right to rights? That is really the fundamental question when we talk about citizenship, about who can apply to become Danish citizens. Because citizenship is about full and equal rights in a society, about the right to participate in all aspects of democracy. Therefore, citizenship is also a fundamental element in including people as active citizens in our society. If we want the people who live in Denmark to be active citizens who participate and engage, we must also invite them to participate in the democratic processes and recognise them as citizens. I could also put it in another way: responding to the request for citizenship made by residents is for me and for the alternative a natural part of the integration effort. It is because becoming a Danish citizen means that one is recognised as an equal and equal citizen of the society in which one lives. This means that you can exercise participation and engage in all democratic processes. That means you have a nationality, and that means you have a home. The alternative basically believes that all people should have the right to become Danish citizens if they meet the conditions. We want a citizenship law that guarantees the individual's legal status and legal certainty, and that requires us to change our practice. The individual's ability to become a full member of society must and should be independent of the political mood and the political majority in the Folketing. Therefore, the granting of citizenship should be an administrative decision on the basis of clear and precise legislation based on objective criteria and leaving no discretion. This applies both to applications for citizenship and to applications for derogations from the conditions. Does the alternative mean that being married to a Danish citizen is a factual criterion for becoming a citizen? No, we do not think so, and we cannot therefore support the proposals of the Danish People's Party. Denmark must be the best country for the world and we must work actively for the UNHCR's ambition that by 2024 there will no longer be people here on Earth who do not belong to a nation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104222	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104226	It's very far-reaching and when you say it, I think it sounds like a beautiful thought. In the real world it would just destroy Denmark. That's the way it is. If people around the world have the right to Danish citizenship, it will have some consequences that I do not even think the rapporteur is willing to take on that, I do not actually think so. Then I would like to remind the rapporteur that the rapporteur, like me, has descendants who have to live in this country and live with the decisions we have taken, and that will only lead to the dissolution of Denmark which is even greater than it is today. It's advanced today, but it's just gonna be even more. By the way, I would like to say that, according to the Constitution, citizenship is not granted by law by the majority of the Folketing. If it is the case that the rapporteur gets his way, then the constitution must be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104345	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe thinks it's a beautiful thought. I can say thank you for that part. But I didn't hear a question. I am well aware that we have a different legal position today, and that is also why I am presenting the position of the Alternative. And that is not what it looks like today, I am well aware of that, and we are then, as Mr. Christian Langballe has also previously highlighted, probably rather disagree with the Danish People's Party on this point, i.e. how we view this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104420	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104422	Well, I do not think the rapporteur should be too happy with my sketch of this. Well, the biggest crimes have actually been committed in the name of goodness, they are. The Marxist utopia has had so many victims there are so many who have been sacrificed on the altar of communism, millions. It was kind of a beautiful thought, but in the real world it was just demonic, and that was kind of just my point. I believe that it will be poison for Danish society if you really believe that people around the globe have the right to Danish citizenship. In other words, it will have completely incalculable consequences for the citizens who live here, and our welfare system will, by the way, come to its knees very quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104514	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104515	Yes, but now I did not present a position that says that all people around the globe should have the right to Danish citizenship. Of course, that is not how we see it in the alternative at all. What we are talking about is people who live here legally and who have stayed here in Denmark legally, as the rapporteur also says, is the citizens who live in Denmark. And that is where we think it is positive if they want to apply for Danish citizenship. As I heard the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party say, we also think that in the alternative, it is a positive thing if people who live here want Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104556	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall proceed in the course of our speeches to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104607	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party believes that you should only be able to become a Danish citizen if you are married to a Danish citizen. To understand what that means, you could think: What if it was me? What if it was me and my family who went out to another country, settled us, found a job, learned the language, and were so happy to be there that we wanted to stay there? How would I feel about the Danish People's Party's proposal? I would think it was wrong, because I think it must be the case that if you feel at home in a country and you make an effort to live up to all the rules that exist, then you must also be able to have citizenship. Then it's no use that it depends on who you're married to. The Danish People's Party's proposal raises a number of questions. The first is: Does the Danish People's Party imagine that if you come as a couple, you should divorce to marry a citizen in order to become a citizen? Or does the Danish People's Party imagine that you should stay in a bad marriage to have the chance to become a citizen? Or does the Danish People's Party imagine that if you are one of those who hasn't just found love, you should marry just in order to get citizenship, you become a better Dane of it? These questions are absolutely absurd, but that is the consequence of the proposal made by the Danish People's Party, and therefore the Danish People's Party must have thought it through here when they can come up with the proposal that you should be married to a Dane in order to become a citizen. I do not think it is really a surprise to anyone that the Radical Left cannot support the motion, but there is one thing in the resolution that we agree with, because the Danish People's Party writes that it is only possible to acquire the knowledge needed to enable it to meet the requirements to become a Danish citizen, for example. the Danish examination and the citizenship test. This is actually the first time I have heard the Danish People's Party say it, and I think it is a good thing if we now agree that one can just acquire the knowledge and go up and answer the questions for the citizenship test, but that it does not say anything about whether one is actually Danish in the heart. Because if the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party agree that it is just symbolic politics and that it does not work, then perhaps we can also agree to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104901	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117104904	Now I didn't expect to agree with the Radicals, so I don't think I'll ever be. Because it is almost the case that when Radicals mean something, it makes sense to think the opposite. But peace be to it. I think that's a good suggestion. I actually think it is. And I think it's a good suggestion that someone is voicing their approval and saying, "This is a Dane." It is on top of the other tightenings and the other requirements that are • of course it does. And I think that is a very good suggestion. Of course, we can give all sorts of theoretical examples, but the proposal is a good one. What I am just asking the rapporteur is: of the 60 000 citizenships that have been granted in the last 10 years, how many of the beneficiaries are so supporters of the Danish people's government, how many love Denmark? Does the rapporteur know? No, I do not think the rapporteur knows that, because too many have been given, but the rapporteur would like to give even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105013	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105015	I think it should be the case that when you live up to the rules, you should also be able to become a Danish citizen. What's beautiful about being a Dane is that it's something you're in the heart. It's not something that I or Mr. Christian Langballe can make himself a judge. I am therefore rather pleased that although the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party once again says that when the Radical Left thinks something, it is usually sensible to think exactly the opposite, it is nice that the Danish People's Party now seems to think the same as the Radical Left, namely that we cannot say anything about the fact that the test of citizenship and the Danish test work, because you can only, as the Danish People's Party itself writes, acquire what it takes to get up and answer the questions correctly. But it doesn't work. And when the Danish People's Party has now come to that realization, perhaps we can also agree to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105112	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105114	In other words, it is now dangerous when the rapporteur from the Parliamentary Chair says that we agree that it could, as far as I am concerned, go beyond the forthcoming elections, and I do not want that to happen. And we don't agree either. Because that is part of the demands that are made, and there are, of course, more demands. And what is true is, of course, that it is crucial that you are Danish in the heart. There are some formal matters. For example, you have to... could speak Danish, it almost gives itself, i.e. to be Danish. That you also need to know something about Danish history also gives yourself, and that you have to take the country to yourself in a way so that you do not hate Denmark. I think there are too many Islamists who hate everything Denmark stands for, who have acquired citizenship over time. Is it okay for them to be granted citizenship? No, actually, I don't think so. History will judge us. We will be accountable for who we and the various parties have granted citizenship, because it will therefore be the future generations who will live with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105210	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105214	But what does the Danish People's Party itself write in the resolution? What the rapporteur writes is • and I quote again, just so that we are fully aware that this is not something I am making up, but that it is something that you have written yourself that you can only acquire the knowledge that is needed so that you can meet the requirements to become a Danish citizen, for example. the Danish examination and the citizenship test. So, the Danish People's Party writes here in black and white that the fact that you have to answer some questions does not work. You can just practice, and then you can go and answer right. It doesn't say how Danish you are in the heart. That is why I just want to repeat: on this point, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party agree because it is symbolic policy. It doesn't work, and when we agree on it, we might also agree to change it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105306	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105317	Thank you. The Danish People's Party here proposes that one should be Danish married to be able to obtain a Danish citizenship. In other words, it would make very good sense that foreign citizens who are married to a Danish citizen could also acquire citizenship. We therefore agree with the authors that this is a good indicator of the desire for society and its integration, and I myself know a number of married couples who would benefit from just the possibility of obtaining citizenship when you are Danish married. That is just not what the proposal is about. The proposal is that the needle eye, which is already very small, should be even smaller, so that in future you must also be Danish married in addition to meeting the other requirements that are being made. We don't support that in the SF. Moreover, as many others have already said, this would also affect the many who have not just been lucky to find the one. So, as everyone else has said here from the platform today, neither does the SF back the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105431	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105434	I could ask the same question I have put to others: does the rapporteur think that the slightly less than 60 000, I think, citizenships distributed in the last 10 years are a reasonable figure?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105447	I do not think we can talk about figures at all in this context. In fact, I believe that the needle eye is so small today in terms of obtaining Danish citizenship that the people who get through it certainly deserve it. In other words, I have also congratulated them on this in a number of contexts from the platform, and I will do so again.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105509	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105511	Now it sounds from some of the other rapporteurs as if you do not have civil rights if you do not have Danish citizenship, so I would like the rapporteur to reply to: is it true that what citizenship gives the right to in addition to the passport is to vote in parliamentary elections? You can actually get social benefits in Denmark without being a Danish citizen. You have the same rights as others, in relation to the Constitution, if you live and live in Denmark. Is that correct? So, do you need a Danish citizenship to be well in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105548	No, you don't necessarily have to. There are some who want it because they have married a Danish spouse and because they may also want to have children together. This may be a very good reason why you also want Danish citizenship. There can be many reasons for wishing that. The rules are so tight today that most people are not in fact satisfied. And that means that my neighbors can't just get a citizenship that would have meant that one spouse could call himself Danish, just as the other spouse can, even if that is actually what they want. I think that's too bad, I'd have brought it home in my back pocket. That's why I think it's right when the Danish People's Party writes that when you're Danish married and you've been married for 3 years, it's a really good indicator that you want this society. If it could have been a criterion that applied to married couples, then I would have kind of backed it up. Now it has just become a criterion in the proposal that it should be a further requirement that everyone should be Danish married in order to be able to obtain Danish citizenship at all, and that may be to tighten it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105648	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117105656	The Danish People's Party proposes that, in order to obtain Danish citizenship, an additional requirement must be made, namely that the applicant must be married to a resident Danish citizen for at least 3 years in order to obtain citizenship. I know that it is the proposalers' intention to protect our citizenship, and there we are very much in agreement. Citizenship is a privilege that we give to people who make a positive contribution to this society. It's not a legal requirement, it's not something you're entitled to. It's a gift we give to people who make a special effort. That is why, as an applicant, a number of conditions must be met in order to obtain citizenship. This applies to employment, relations with Denmark, the absence of crime and other factors that say whether the applicant has actually been integrated. In fact, the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party recently concluded an agreement that tightened the demands further. We have thus indicated that citizenship is not something we are just giving. We Conservatives would like us to have gone one step further in terms of better screening. We think there are too many caliphates and democracy-haters who are given citizenship. The best way to avoid this is to have some conversations with them. Today, you can acquire citizenship without ever meeting anyone from the public sector. We don't think that's good enough. It must be done in the same way as when you are up for the theoretical test when you get a driver's license. So we would really like a better screening than today. So, although I share the opinion of the proposers that we should make demands when it comes to citizenship, we cannot quite follow them in this proposal. If we introduce a separate and mandatory requirement that you should have been married to a Danish citizen for 3 years, then we exclude a lot of people who live up to the other conditions, and I believe that people who meet the conditions are therefore not in conflict with the law, contribute positively to this society's ability to apply for citizenship, whether they are Danish married or not. So if you haven't just fallen in love with a Dane, you can't become a Danish citizen. We are not in favour of this. Not to mention what this is going to mean for the number of pro-form marriages. That is what will also be the consequence of it. In addition, it is also excluded per year. automatically all children wishing to become Danish citizens. One must be able to obtain Danish citizenship through commitment and diligence. It shouldn't be dependent on your love life. Therefore, we cannot support DF's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110001	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110004	Well, that's too bad. That's a fantastic good suggestion. I would like to sign up, and there I think, in fact, no, I know that the rapporteur and I agree entirely with the screening and the fact that we need to get hold of some of these Islamists and have them excluded from citizenship. I agree with the rapporteur on this. I do not agree with the other. I think that citizenship is not something we are entitled to. People can live and be well in Denmark without having citizenship. That's the way it is. I think it's a great idea, a really great idea, that you're married and that your spouse agrees with you. Actually, I think it is. And then you can come up with all sorts of hypothetical conclusions, and pro-marriage may come up with some of them, which I should not rule out, but on the basis of which I think it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110103	I think our proposal is even better... is an excellent proposal... so to screen them, talk to them. It is better to avoid that Islamists and democracy haters and caliphate supporters acquire citizenship than to focus on whether or not you are married to a Danish citizen. That's where I think we can catch a lot. We're not gonna do that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110124	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110126	We can always discuss who got the idea first. I think it was the Danish People's Party, but it shouldn't separate us. We can agree on that, and we will have to work together to achieve that. I think that's excellent. Let's do it! )
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110140	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110207	I regret that before I got up a little quickly on Parliament's platform. Now I think it's the right order... that's good. Thank you for a good debate. I personally believe that far too many citizenships have been awarded, and this proposal is therefore also to be understood. I honestly admit that this is to limit the granting of citizenship. That's the point. And I think it is a very good idea to make it a condition that there is a spouse who agrees with you. And there are, as there are today, quite a number of exemptions which can be used so that exceptions can be granted, but this could be a key requirement for people who apply for Danish citizenship. I think it's an excellent idea. In the last 10 years, a little less than 60,000 citizenships have been given, and I do not know what feelings it arouses in the members of this high thing, but to me it is frightening many. I can't believe I actually see it as an irresponsible act that a large majority in the Folketing has distributed so many citizenships. History will judge us. If you ask the question of which of these people has really become Danish, the answer is fluctuating in the wind. In my opinion, the answer must be: far from everyone. We have given citizenship to people we do not know, who may not even speak Danish and in many cases do not speak very good Danish. However, I believe that language must be an essential condition for receiving citizenship. Now there are also various reasons for granting citizenship. My opinion is that only the person who is Danish in the heart can become a citizen. Of course, and the rapporteur of the Radicals is right about this, there is some knowledge that needs to be acquired, but there is something more, namely that one is Danish in the heart. Then there are also those who believe that in order to be really, really good and to be really, really neighborly, we just have to give out citizenship. One should then just remember that there are others who will pay a very, very high price for one's anointing goodness, and it is the Danes; it is Denmark. Both present and future generations will pay a very high price. In time, a parallel society has been created by citizens who are not Danish and never will be. I dare not think about what Denmark looks like in 40-50 years, but we can already see for ourselves how dramatic a demographic change Denmark has undergone in the last 30-40 years. It is simply a population change. In 1985, approx. 5,000 people in Denmark of non-Western origin, today it is half a million. If you then also think that at some point these people will have citizenship, you have to say that the Denmark we know will be gone in 40-50 years if we are not careful. These are the gloomy prospects. That is why we should limit the allocation of citizenship even more than we have done. If you ask what kind of bleak prospects I'm talking about, why don't you look at Malmö, where there are riots, car burns, shots in the streets... all in all, it's more like a civil war. Denmark would also have looked like this if the DF had not shouted guard in the rifle and the immigration policy had been tightened. But it is also the way Denmark can look in 40-50 years and perhaps before, if we are not careful. I am quite sure that our descendants will ask what a large majority in the Danish Parliament was thinking of when the limits of mass immigration were opened and later citizenship was distributed in large numbers. Sixty thousand in ten years are simply too many. Yes, we have tightened, but not enough, and that is why we are proposing a further tightening which is on top of the others and which is that only spouses of Danish citizens can apply for citizenship. The idea is that a Danish citizen agrees with the other person by marrying him, and that in itself is a good measuring tool, in relation to whether he is Danish in the heart. It is clear that there will be children involved in this and that they will also receive citizenship in the same sense. Are there not exceptional cases? Yes, there is, and therefore there will still be the possibility of applying for a derogation. We already know that today, and there will be no change in that. Finally, I would like to say that our proposal aims to limit the allocation of citizenship. Too many citizenships have been distributed over time. We owe it to Denmark and the Danes that we actually start thinking about the country and our descendants before we think about giving out citizenship. Then I would like to thank you for the debate. I can see that I have not been sent off with any mandate and that I cannot hope to convince the government and the minister who is now busy with something else.But of course I have planted a seed that can then grow and become a large tree that you can find shadow under. So I hope that this can lead to the reality of one day, but that is how it is with the Danish People's Party: We put forward ideas, and we believe that at some point, if we fight hard enough for them, they will succeed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110931	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110937	I am curious to know whether the Danish People's Party believes that you cannot be Danish if you are not married.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117110950	I have actually tried to explain what my position on citizenship is. I do not believe that we should distribute citizenship, as we have done, and I believe that we should have as many criteria as possible and as many strict conditions as possible. When we make this proposal, it is to make sure that people are really Danish and because we owe it to the country and the Danes to take into account that we are absolutely sure that people are Danish. Then, as I also said, you can apply for a derogation from this requirement, just as you can apply for a derogation from language requirements. And then I understand that the Radicals normally vote in favour of all derogations, so you can just do that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111035	Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111040	I don't really think I got the answer to my question, so I'm gonna try again. Does the Danish People's Party mean that you are more Danish when you are married than when you are not married?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111052	I believe that we have a greater opportunity to make sure that people are Danish if it is a spouse who says that they are good for them. Yeah, I mean that. We can't look into people's hearts. We can't search their hearts and kidneys. We cannot do that, but we just have to make sure that we do as much as we possibly can, so that we know that they are Danish. Then, if you really are Danish and really care about it, you can apply for a derogation from this, and then you can present what you think you are advocating that you should have a derogation in this case. This is already happening today; it is a practice that we are well aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111135	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rights of the Child. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111200	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111208	Thank you. It is rare that the Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution which has put me in such a difficult situation as today. This is because they have tabled a resolution which actually fully supports the key points of the government: the EU's future multiannual financial framework, the so-called MFF, should not be more than 1%. of the EU's gross national product, GNP. And that's positive. I'm glad. This means that I now expect us to have very broad support for the government's negotiating mandate when we come up with it in the Committee on European Affairs. However, there are just two things that make it impossible for me here today to promise to vote in favour. One is the substance and the other is the timing. The substance first: we share the view that the EU's multiannual framework for the coming period should be adapted so that the EU budget is 1.0 per cent. of the EU countries' economies. It's in line with what it is today. We think this is appropriate; it is the path to follow. It is not right for Denmark and the other Member States to pay more to the EU because Britain has chosen to leave with brexit. Basically, it is also the task in Brussels to feed and accept that the European Union's economic capacity is different without Britain, and no one benefits from the fact that we close our eyes to that fact. Having said that, unfortunately, I have to say that there is an error in the premise of the Enhedslisten proposal. The government's main point is that the budget must continue to amount to 1.0 per cent. of the EU countries' economies, but this does not mean that the Danish EU contribution will not be higher. Indeed, in the coming budgetary period, Danish prosperity, our gross national product, will be higher than in the previous budget period. And if you pay and apologize if it sounds like a little simplistic 1 percent. of a larger amount, so is 1%. of a larger amount more than 1%. of a small amount. Therefore, it cannot be said both that one has to pay 1% and that it has to be the same amount, because our prosperity has increased over the past period. So 1 percent. of a greater wealth is therefore a greater amount than 1%. of a lesser wealth. An EU budget of 1%. of the EU's GNI means that we are helping to increase the EU contribution in line with the prosperity that is in Denmark and, if I may use the expression, in line with the solidarity that I believe should be there in the EU, so that countries pay according to their ability. I think this is fair, and I also think it is necessary, because we are deeply dependent on the outside world, and we are deeply, deeply dependent on our cooperation with the other EU members. Our prosperity comes out of international trade, and our security depends on international cooperation. Therefore, we cannot close our eyes to the common challenges we face and which require joint answers. In the European Union, for example, this is the case. migration, climate and the need to support our future prosperity and development through common strong European research and development programmes. Therefore, the government is also ready to increase the Danish EU contribution in line with Danish prosperity. Unfortunately, however, the Commission is proposing a considerably greater increase in their proposals and therefore a disproportionate increase in Member States' EU contributions. In the view of the government, this is out of step with the citizens both in Denmark and in the other countries. It is also out of step with the economic reality in Denmark and in the other Member States. Therefore, there should be no doubt that our overriding priority in the current negotiations is to negotiate the level of expenditure down to 1.00%. of GNP. We will and cannot accept a disproportionately large Danish EU contribution. Against this background, I do not wish to deny that Denmark may be in a situation where we will have to vote against an EU budget if it is the case that the financial framework is being blown up. The Commission's proposal, as it stands today, is simply unacceptable to Denmark. We go from the Danish side hard after a budget of 1.00 per cent. of GNP, and I am pleased that the Enhedslisten now confirms that there is broad support for this as a Danish negotiating line. But at this stage we do not know the premise of the final negotiations, which, as you know, go beyond the expenditure side, also deals with the revenue side and the issues of discounts. We are simply too far away from the finish line now, that we can meaningfully lock ourselves on to what we should think and what the final Danish red lines are. The negotiations on an MFF are lengthy. They've started a long time ago. They are going to run all the way over 2019, over a parliamentary election and over a replacement of the Commission, and only once, I think, by 2020 will we be ready to take a final decision. It is never easy to reach agreement, and it is certainly not when we have a brexite that is unresolved right in front of us. As you know, the agreement will have to take effect from 2021... it will be in two years from now... and therefore it is difficult for me to see that we are ready to compromise at this stage. That is why it will be a long time before we come to the crucial negotiations. But the government is in no way sitting on its hands waiting for negotiations to enter the final game at some point. On the contrary, we in Denmark have been the first to show how, on the basis of the Commission's proposals, expenditure levels have been reduced to 1.00%. the EU's GNP and how the budget can be moved significantly towards more modern policies. It is a proposal known in Brussels as the Danish waterfall model. It is not because we have many Danish waterfalls in nature to boast of, but it is to show how we have gradually stepped down from the level proposed by the Commission to a level where we actually reach the Danish objective of both having a budget of 1.00%. of GNP and modernize what you spend the money on. Specifically, we have pointed to expenditure of over 100 billion. The euro, which can be given priority away. It is a reduction in the Structural Funds and it is less significant budget increases on new priorities than the increases of hundreds of percent proposed by the Commission. So it is possible to create a future-proof budget within a responsible framework, and there will be listening, and other countries will be inspired when we explain our approach. But it will be a long, tough move, it will be difficult negotiations, and the crucial negotiations will be in the future. Against this background, I cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution today, but I would very much like to sign for the support that has been given to the government's main priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111941	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117111945	Yes, that was a lot of words in order to reach a not quite clear conclusion. So, the Minister cannot just say quite clearly to the public that the government will not promise that it will not vote for an EU budget that goes beyond 1%. Of bni? For that is what the proposal is all about: the proposal is that we agree with each other, that we cannot vote for this financial framework for seven years if it exceeds 1%. of bni. Well, the minister could just promise that. The Minister will not. Can the Minister not just say: I will not promise, I am prepared to go beyond that framework, over the amount if the government considers it appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112028	I do not think it is appropriate to go over, but I am asked to take a position on a motion for a resolution based on the wrong premise. The motion for a resolution is based on the premise that if you say 1.00 per cent. of bni, it's the same contribution as in this period. There's no sign of Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard said that in the intervening period Danish prosperity has increased. This means that, with the same percentage, our contribution will be greater. That is why I cannot support the motion for a resolution, which is based on the wrong premise. In terms of timing, I think that is also wrong. I believe that it is wrong for us to bind ourselves at this stage, ahead of some negotiations that we do not know, in terms of being able to create alliances with other like-minded countries in order to make as many as possible draw towards the Danish position. The government's position has, in fact, been made clear. We don't mean by bni.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112121	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112122	It is a little thought-provoking that the government does not believe that the support of the Folketing for a particular view strengthens the government's negotiating mandate, but one can then think about that. Furthermore, I do not understand what it is in the proposal here that is on the wrong premise. In other words, it is clear:... requires the government to vote against the proposal on the EU's multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 in the Council of Ministers if the final proposal results in a total expenditure level above 1.0 per cent. of the EU's contribution which is equal to the level of the current financial framework (2014-2020) and thus results in a higher contribution from Denmark than in the current budget period. Thus, a higher contribution than 1% is meant. What's unclear about that? This proposal does not mean that if Denmark's prosperity increases, we cannot pay a little more, but it is clear that we cannot go over 1%. of bni. So what's the unclear?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112216	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112218	Well, it's actually the last thing that's quite unclear, because we're gonna be here. I might as well be honest with you. We are going to pay a higher contribution when you measure that in the number of crowns to be delivered to the European Union because we have become a richer country. In recent years from 2015 onwards we have had an incredibly positive bnp growth that makes the Danes richer and Denmark richer. And when we get richer, it's 1%. of our wealth and prosperity in relation to the EU quota a larger amount. So our contribution is going to increase, and that is contrary to what is written.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112301	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112304	Thank you. I agree with the government that 1%. is a sensible framework and it is good that we have become richer so that we can also contribute more to the EU framework. But the interesting thing I am asking the Minister here is surely what we will get in the negotiations for the money we put in the budget. What is the direction in which the EU budget should move? What is the direction in which the European Union should move? What do we need the money for? I hope that I would like the Minister to confirm that this is what will be crucial in the negotiations when the minister and the government have to find out exactly where it lands, so that it will not only be whether it is this 1%, but what the content is. Are these the climate objectives we are trying to achieve? Is it research and education that we can gain added value from when we do it together? Are these the things that need to secure our external borders, get control of migration, treat refugees properly in the European Union, that is, what our priorities are, rather than just focusing on whether they are 1.0 per cent??
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112411	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112415	We have a clear target of 1.00%, that's for sure. We also have a clear objective of modernising the EU budget and shifting money away from the Structural Funds and agricultural policy to research, to the environment, to climate, to migration, to security, that is, to what I started by calling modernising the EU budget. After all, the two negotiating objectives must be balanced with each other. If we get the world's best budget, but that's 1,000001 percent. I would then consider whether it was the wisest thing in the world to reject all the good we could have had because of a very, very marginal overrun. But that does not change what our objective is. That's the 1.00 percent, and that's quite basic. I do not think that the European Union should use brexit to demand more from other countries. I believe that the European Union should use brexit to redefine what the European Union is dealing with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112517	Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112521	Well, that's how far we agree. The European Union must focus on what we need to be resolved across borders, and perhaps even more on what I believe I agree with the Minister, namely support funding for countries where it is not added value across borders. So I take it as a confirmation that it is the content that is being sought and I agree that the framework is the one the government has put forward. But this proposal will, of course, restrict the room for negotiation which I hope the government will use to get in the right direction, in other words, towards climate, education and security rather than now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112603	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112606	Now there is some time for the government to have a negotiating mandate, a negotiating proposal. I cannot, of course, stand by and guarantee that I am the Minister for Finance at the time when the negotiating table is to be taken. But if I am, I would like to promise here that I am looking for a very, very tight negotiating mandate, perhaps more rigorous than ministers usually ask for. Because I believe that we must be strong in the negotiations in relation to being able to get so close to 1.00%. As far as possible, and at the same time as close to modernising the budget as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112641	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112646	The answer to the Radicals actually gives a good picture of what I was also looking for, because I think it has been a pity in the debate that it has perhaps been more certain that if we do not save, then at least we want to maintain, that is to say, that there is a lot to be said about whether we put more money into European cooperation than what comes out of it. But there I am actually hearing the Minister, although he is very keen on the percentage, saying that, of course, if there is a need, we have to correct for the good content, and that is perhaps what in the debate has created the basis for a resolution like this, I think where we are going to focus too much on whether we want to invest in the European Community or whether it is important for us to see how little we can get away with. But I actually think the Minister is explaining this very well, so it is not a question. It is more a comment after the answer to the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112734	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112736	Then I just have to make a brief comment: it is always easier if you are one-dimensional to have a very clear discussion, but when we talk about the EU's budgets it is actually a multidimensional debate. I would like to see some of the traditional policies such as agricultural policy and structural policy reduced somewhat more. I would like to see a saving there. On the other hand, I am ready to invest something more in research, in climate, in migration, in the area of security, and that shift needs to create some alliances in order to get through.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112807	Thanks, that's it. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112813	We also recognise, of course, that the government is trying to keep a little more in line with the European Union, but what may be surprising is that the Finance Minister puts all the corporals in the European Committee, all the other ministers, and asks for support for one new project after another, which costs millions of kroner, and we just find this very difficult to see how is linked to the overall ambition of the government that we should not pay any more. If more and more projects are put into the EU mill, all of which must be financed, how will we get there in the end, saying that we will not pay for them? I would like to know that, and certainly many other Danes would like to know, so this is an excellent opportunity for the Minister of Finance to explain it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117112914	I really wish I could take sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to Brussels on Tuesday at the ECOFIN meeting, both in order for my colleagues to experience the image of me as wasteful, and Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth could experience their picture of me as both tights and savings general, and perhaps one could so nuance one's opinions a little bit. It is true that in some areas we would like to see new initiatives set in motion, and in other areas we would like to see us tighten up. I think it is strange, for example, that a number of even quite wealthy countries continue to receive Structural Fund funds from the European Union, instead of using the Structural Funds less and more targetedly those countries that are unable to lift themselves up and where solidarity has shown that we have been able to lift some countries up from economic problems to stand stronger. That is why it is true that sometimes I ask my colleagues to come to the Committee on European Affairs and set new projects in motion, but not to the extent that we go to Brussels and ask that the foot be reduced to new projects, to new money for new ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113025	Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113031	Tomorrow we will have a meeting of the European Committee of Inquiry. The Minister for Finance is coming to the European Committee with a desire for a new InvestEU fund. It is the case that in the current budget there are 26 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union. According to what the Minister says, there must be 47.5 billion. In the future euro. That's 20 billion. euro more over a 5-year period. This is just one of many examples of the government coming and asking for more money for the European Union, and it may well be that, overall, it is said that there are fewer, but it is just not connected, and that is why you end up in a situation where you have committed yourself to everything before you see the last nail in the board, saying that you will not pay for it. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113124	In a very similar way, we make a financial law agreement that sets the framework for what is used in Denmark, and then you go in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee with records that translate what is. What I am going to say in the Committee on European Affairs tomorrow does not in any way exceed any budget or framework that has been agreed. On the contrary, it remains fully within the framework of the agreements, but of course you cannot know exactly from the outset when you put a multi-annual budget on what every item of the budget should be used for. It is implemented just as we translate the economy with records in Denmark. That is why new initiatives have to be set in motion and have Danish parliamentary approval in the Committee on European Affairs, but it is by no means a cross-border budget that we would like to see, and that in no way contradicts the fact that we would like to see as tight a budget as possible in keeping the framework of 1.00%.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113222	Thank you. Then there is no more for the Minister of Finance in this round. We're going to go on in the series of speeches to Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113241	Thank you for the floor, President. And also thanks to Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Søndergaard to present the many motions for resolutions today. One has a feeling that it is the Enhedslisten election programme that is just to be tested by in the Parliamentary Chamber. But these are also important and crucial issues that we face. So let me also start by saying about this motion for a resolution that we fully share the ambition of the Enhedslisten and, for that matter, of the government that Denmark should not contribute more than 1%. of bni. In other words, we believe that there is a clear basis in the existing EU budget to both trim and prioritise better. And we have always argued in the debate that brexit, however unhappy it may be for the community as a whole, but also for the British in particular. I know that there are different views on this in the Parliamentary Assembly too, was an opportunity to trim the budget and prioritise sharper; that it was an opportunity also to deal with some of the agricultural aid schemes and the structural funds and other things that may have run out of time to a great extent. When we cannot support the Enhedslisten resolution today, it is not so much about the technical way in which Enhedslisten wrote the proposal, as the Minister of Finance said, but more about the flexibility of the negotiations. In fact, we think it is quite important that Denmark can have some flexibility in those negotiations, and we are well aware of this because we know from every eternal time that there are negotiations on the EU budget that all sorts of other issues are also involved. We believe, for example, that the whole very serious situation facing Denmark, with the forthcoming adoption of Regulation 883, in which the European Parliament has tightened up the proposal for foreign workers to have access to unemployment benefit after 1 day's work in Denmark, would be a good point to throw into the budget negotiations so that we can prevent the worst damage to that proposal. And if that means it's going to be more than 1%. It is also clearly worth considering whether this type of negotiation in the long run is not most beneficial to Denmark. We are clearly pursuing and supporting the current government, and if we win the government ourselves, it will also be a new government's ambition and goal that Denmark cannot contribute more than 1%. We would also like to allow flexibility in the negotiations, regardless of the colour of the government at that time. So, on this basis, we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution, although we agree with the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113520	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113524	Thank you. Look, now Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen himself the question of access to Danish daily allowances after 1 day up here in the Parliament Hall. So I'm just gonna ask sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, on Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen can just remind us all of what the S&D Group was, in other words, the group in which the Social Democratic Party sits in the European Parliament's position on that question. Was it for reducing it to one day, or was it against?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113600	Kenneth Kristensen Berth is well aware of the answer to that question, and the answer is that there was considerable support in the S&D Group for that particular proposal, and that was for many different reasons, partly because one does not understand the Danish labour market model and partly because one has a wrong view of how to increase social cohesion in the Union in our view. But it is also well known that in the Danish Social Democratic Party, together with a number of other parties here in the Danish Parliament, we are working against it, and we will do so in opposition as well as in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113631	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113636	I just think that it is a very important consumer information for citizens, who are about to go to European elections, that by putting their mark on the Social Democratic Party at home, we support a political grouping in the European Parliament which is working for foreign workers to have the right to benefit after one day in Denmark. It is good that we had that clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113659	We can go on like this for a long time. I can also look at some of the things that are voted for in the group that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's party is a member of. There are also some views which quite often differ quite significantly from the views of the Danish People's Party in this Chamber, and that is how we can go on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113713	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113719	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I think that was a fantastic illustrative example, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen added: In order to maintain a Danish benefit system, which we pay ourselves, which we finance ourselves and which does not bother anyone else, we must then be prepared to pay some bribes in the EU to avoid it being eroded and destroyed. I think that this is a great example, and we shall discuss the consequences of this a little bit more. But back to the question of the budget, because I just want to ask Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, if it is not the case that if social democracy policy went through, well over half of the current EU budget would be well over half of the current EU budget! of bni. - Sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113822	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113827	Yes, I can confirm that immediately, but that does not change my conclusion that we think it is important for a government to have freedom of negotiation. In other words, all sorts of examples of this can be mentioned, and I believe that we should take seriously that we have the ambition that the budget should not be increased. It is not because I am standing here arguing that it should be lifted. I do not think there are any new tasks that suggest that more money is needed. There is no doubt that priority can be given to the existing budget, albeit abundantly. However, when I cannot support this motion for a resolution, it is because I think it imposes a very rigid approach on a government before entering into negotiations. It is, in fact, a very honest approach that I am expressing here because, as we know the negotiations, there are many things that can come into play, and Denmark can also have an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113910	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113919	But when it is the policy of the Social Democrats, and I think it is the policy of the Left as well, I do believe that all parties here believe that the vast majority of the current EU budget could be removed without further ado, then I find it difficult to say that there is no flexibility in this proposal. Then we just don't remove 70%. of the EU budget that we are unhappy with. All we have to do is remove 1%. of the EU budget that we are unhappy with, or perhaps just 0.1%. Then it will actually be possible to stay within the scope of this proposal, namely 1%. of bni. That will be possible, so it is probably flexibility to a large extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117113957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114000	But, sir. Søren Søndergaard, it is not flexible in the sense that you are instructing a government to vote against... Can we just have some peace so that the rapporteur can also hear himself and we can hear the rapporteur. Thank you! ) The motion for a resolution requires a government to vote against the draft budget if it is not possible to convince the other 26 countries of how we in Denmark would like to cut. And I think we should, and that is why I think the proposal is too inflexible. I think it is important that all possible options can be kept open in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114031	Thank you for that and there will be no further brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114042	Thank you. And thank you for all the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution today. As will probably appear, we on the EU front are not so far from the Enhedslisten. See, in the EU, negotiations are currently under way on the long-term budget for 2021-2027, and the Commission has presented a proposal which means that Denmark and those of the other Member States, which are net contributors to the EU budget, will pay more. On the one hand, the Commission wants to remove the rebate arrangements, and on the other hand, it wants to increase the share of the country's GDP that goes to finance the EU from 1.0 to 1.11%. This may not sound like much, but in Denmark it is equivalent to paying 2-3 billion. kr. more annually to the EU. As you know, Britain's withdrawal from the EU entails a budget gap of between 90 and 105 billion. kr. a year. After all, this is the immediate result when the EU's largest net contributor chooses to withdraw from cooperation. Instead of trying to reduce expenditure accordingly, the European Commission is proposing that the Member States should pay more, and in fact more than the 90-105 billion. kr., which is the hole Britain leaves behind. In our view, this is the wrong way to go about things. Instead, the European Union must feed itself. If there is less money in the boxes because there are fewer countries to pay the bills, then we must reduce our ambitions and cut back. It is quite logical, moreover, in view of the fact that the European Union has just imposed restraint on the Member States in relation to increasing expenditure at national level. The budget law, which means that the annual structural government deficit must not exceed 1⁄2%. Thus, by bnp, is the result of the EU's so-called financial pact requirements for the balance of public finances. So the EU decrees the Member States to spend less money, but insists on getting more money themselves, and this is by its very nature quite grotesque and unacceptable and leaves the clear impression that Denmark and the other Member States are on their way to being reduced to small regional councils, which are being costd by some bureaucrats in Brussels. The only people who can say no to these developments are, by their very nature, the Member States themselves, and unfortunately, the Member States have never been good at this either when it comes to the active and expanding interpretation of EU law by the European Court of Justice or when it comes to the European Commission's proposals to always spend more money. The government has stated that it does not support a larger EU budget. In its proposal, the Enhedslisten envisages requiring the government not to support an EU budget that involves an increase in GDP from 1.0 to 1.11%. That is actually, if I may go so far, a bit of an unambitious proposal. See, the EU's budget should be cut rather, so it was less than 1.0 per cent. I would like to point out that this is not the first time that we have had a debate on this subject in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. At least that is what I hear from the left over and over again when it comes to the ambitions of the European Union, for example. climate area. So, of course, the government should have made a wish to reduce the EU budget to less than 1.0 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. Then we would have been even more enthusiastic about it. In the Danish People's Party, we are tired of the EU giving guidelines to the Member States, which you are unable or unwilling to comply with. This is particularly true in relation to the Commission's draft budget, which is nothing less than hypocrisy in the highest power and highlights the far-reaching approach in Brussels and Strasbourg to dealing with the citizens' money. However, we wish the government good pleasure with the negotiations and call for an increase in the level of ambition in terms of reducing the EU budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114458	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114512	I was quite surprised that no one had any questions for the previous speaker. However, I would like to begin by thanking the Enhedslisten, of course, first and foremost for the clear and clear support for government policy, which must spread to other areas. And then one can almost read in the proposal that Enhedslisten has almost become such an ultraliberal party to tax deniers. I do not know how deep it is, but it is written, for example, in the comments on the proposal: at the same time, the authors of the proposals believe that Denmark should not, under any circumstances, pay more to the EU budget as long as frequent examples of greed and fraud with taxpayers' money continue to occur. It can of course be translated into a Danish context, namely that under no circumstances should one pay more in tax as long as there continue to be frequent examples of greed and fraud with taxpayers' money, but logic does not go that far. As I said, the essence of the proposal is quite reasonable. We also believe that 1%. I don't know why we call it 1.00, because 1 and 1.00 are familiar to me the same thing and that 1%. of the EU's bni is a fine framework. It is clear that when the price rises, of course it also rises in crowns and ears or euros and cents. I think most people can figure that out if you can calculate percentages. So if we do not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution then I must disappoint the Enhedslisten that we do not intend to do so because we disagree with the intention. This is simply because it is simply because, long before the negotiations are concluded, Denmark will not be able to shake a knot in the negotiations, with a mandate in this Chamber, long before the negotiations are concluded, will simply be inappropriate. In any case, it is inappropriate to have this debate, because any negotiating situation and position is weakened if we know in advance where the pain line lies with the person we are negotiating with. But just to make a hypothetical proposal, because we have other proposals today from the Enhedslisten; if we imagined that the budget was raised to 1,000001 per cent. in return for the abolition of the travel circus which the Enhedslisten wants to abolish, and which we would also like to see abolished, the abolition of everything called tax havens, which is another of the Enhedslisten's proposals here today, and the abolition of all party support for European parties, as the Enhedslisten also proposes here today, should be said: no, not on terms, because it is not one euro more than one per cent.? That is not appropriate. I think most people can understand that. So we support intention. We're gonna go hard at 1 percent. of bni. Britain has resigned, and then the EU's budgets have to comply with it. There are fewer members in the store, and then the store must be smaller. That's the way it is. However, the fixing of a position in advance is not appropriate and that is why we are voting against it. And I welcome our good colleagues in the Conservative People's Party and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114903	Thank you, there are a few comments. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117114911	Thank you. I am a little interested in the voting method that the Left is presenting here, because the flexibility thing is nonsense. There's plenty of flexibility, it can be both 0.9 and 0.8 and 0.7. There's plenty of flexibility in this proposal. But the general method, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen presents, is that you never have to say where your limit is. After all, every Friday in the Committee on European Affairs we sit and give mandates to the government, and there we have an expression which states that the government must place a decisive emphasis on...·, which means that if the government does not get that view recognised, one must oppose the proposal. Does that mean, sir? Jan E. Jørgensen said here that the Left will never, in any area in future, put a decisive emphasis on a proposal, especially when there is a new government? We shall never put any more decisive emphasis on a proposal, because, as I understand it, it brings all the negative consequences which Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has stood on the platform and listed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115027	No, of course it doesn't, and Mr. Cole knows that. So did Søren Søndergaard. This means that when the government has a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs, it is at a time when we know what negotiating positions we can take, in other words where there have been negotiations which are nearing completion. That is why this is a completely different situation. What Enhedslisten is asking us to do now is to make it clear that whatever the negotiations may lead to, it is a mandate called 1.0. And then it's true that it could be 0.9 and 0.8 and 0.7. I can hear that, sir. Søren Søndergaard can number row • I think that's really, really impressive. But flexibility has to go both ways, otherwise it is not real flexibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115110	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115113	Well, that's interesting. In other words, we can imagine that when we get to the finish line, the Left will be involved in requiring the government to place a decisive emphasis on 0.1 per cent. We just don't have to tell you now. That is only something we have to say at the last minute when we know the state of the negotiations, so that if we are now offered, for example. To abolish the travel circus, you can agree to 0.1. But if we do not get it when we are sitting up in the Committee on European Affairs at the last hour, then we are ready to give decisive attention to the fact that it does not exceed a certain percentage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115156	Well, I can't deny that now, and I can't do the opposite either, because it's too early to deal with it. That depends entirely on what that course of negotiations might be. But, well, sir... Søren Søndergaard is right in saying that there are cases in which we in the Committee on European Affairs give the government a mandate that the government says that it attaches crucial importance to some points coming through and, if they do not get through, you vote against. It is, of course, a means we have, but I cannot comment on that now, because we do not yet know anything about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115224	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115228	A small clarification question for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, because I think that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen was told something in his rapporteur's speech, which was perhaps not quite precise. Can we, under the auspices of the MMF, abolish the travel circus?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115249	No, you can't do that directly, but sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth knows that when you negotiate, you can put some other things into the debate. When you negotiate Finance Law, you can also make some requests that you might think did not have so much to do with a Finance Act. I think that's been seen in politics before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115307	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115311	However, it was just as good of a wish to make, that is to say, a wish for a treaty amendment. After all, it is firmly established in the Treaty of Lisbon that the European Parliament has two headquarters, like many monsters, it also has two heads. This is not something that comes into play in relation to the MMF. The moment it comes into play, it will be in relation to a revision of the Treaty of Lisbon. It's just that you don't pretend to be people behind the television screens that you can change it with a fingertips, so that there's only one seat in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115347	No, I think it's fine to get that clarification. We shall deal with the proposal later today, and the rapporteur is quite right that we cannot abolish Parliament in Strasbourg without at the same time amending the Treaty. So that is not something we can get in connection with another agreement. It was meant solely as an illustration of a political game, which is often about getting something and giving something. And then you have to weigh up with yourself in the end, whether you have got a good deal to say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117115414	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117125959	The sitting is resumed. In the series of rapporteurs, we have now reached Mr Seligman's position. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130025	Thank you for that, President. In the Liberal Alliance, we agree with Enhedslisten that Denmark's contribution to the EU should not exceed 1%. of the European Union. And now we have just had an hour's break, so it is no harm for me to go over what the Minister of Finance said before the break, because the positions he put forward we share in the Liberal Alliance. We cannot fix our contribution in kroner and ear because it is defined as a percentage, and I have to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that the comments on the motion for a resolution actually contain a number of nominal amounts: 19.6 billion. kr. Annual and DKK 3,800. annual per year; Citizen. It was also explained that the proposal from the EU Budget Commissioner could be calculated in several ways, but Günther Oettinger was at a meeting at Christiansborg, in which I think we both participated, and there he said that the rate of the proposal he put forward would be either 1.11%. or 1.08%, and that's too high. It is not our negotiating position that the rate should be there, and I hope, of course, that the government will be given a mandate to determine it when the negotiating table is to be established. The Minister for Finance spoke of timing, and I also agree that we are too far from the final negotiations to be advisable to hold the mandate. This may put us in a more difficult position in the negotiations on how the money is spent in the MMF than is strictly necessary. What Enhedslisten basically wants is for Denmark to make ultimate demands and thus metaphorically climb into a high tree. And there I have to say that I represent the party in the Folketing that has the most in-depth experience of climbing in tall trees and making ultimate demands, and based on the great experience we have, I would just like to say that it inevitably ends up putting a negotiating party worse if this negotiating party makes ultimate demands and climbs up into trees than it ends up if you do not. So I would hope that Enhedslisten will listen to someone who has a lot of experience in this area, and I will conclude by saying that the Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130317	It just gave rise to a brief remark from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130321	It's kind of the same as with the left. I recognise that the Liberal Alliance now has a line in the Committee on European Affairs, which is that it will never place any decisive emphasis on anything in a mandate to the government. I look forward very much to seeing that line practiced when there comes a new government after the next elections. I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130341	Well, I think we all look very much forward to what will happen after the elections, so there we also agree it is a special day today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130350	Well, then, sir. Henrik Dahl climbs down from the platform, and then it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130359	Thank you. What I am going to say here is probably not surprising to any of the honourable EU rapporteurs or the Finance Minister for that matter, since I have raised this issue of the budget very many times in the Committee on European Affairs. I think it is quite the wrong way to go to negotiations on the budget and sit and talk about the size of it instead of having a basic talk about what we want to finance and resolve together, then to find out what it means financially, how it should be distributed and how we can get the money in, and whether there are also new ways in which the European Union can generate own resources and not necessarily only few contributions from the Member States. So that is our position, and that is why we will not be supporting this proposal either. Having said that, however, I think it is actually a good discussion to take up in this Chamber. After all, I have asked for the debate on the mandate very many times in the Committee on European Affairs, both to the Finance Minister and, I think, to all the other ministers in the College government, and I think it was time for us to have an early mandate in relation to this, and we can always come back and update that when we see how the negotiations are going. Because we already know that the negotiations are in progress. They have even come a very long way in a number of areas. I think that, of course, we in Denmark should take part in this, and the government is in the best position if they have a mandate from the Danish Parliament to stick to. So thank you for raising the question. We do not support the proposal, and I should like to welcome both Radical and SF and say that they do not support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130540	There was just a brief remark from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130544	I think it is a real discussion which the alternative rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, is raising here, and that is what is really interesting. That's where I'm gonna just ask Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, about Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist does not share the view that, within a 1-percent framework for the EU budget, something could be done much, much more constructive than is being done today, both in relation to support for the poor part of the world, support for countries that are in poor economic conditions in the EU, joint cross-border initiatives in relation to the environment and a European transport network that could make some of the many flights redundant. Is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist did not agree that in reality, within 1%. could get really, really far if you spent that money wisely?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130643	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130644	I very much agree that there can be a lot of money within one percent for that particular thing. However, I do not necessarily agree that we are getting far enough with that money, and that is why we do not believe that negotiations can start at all with the 1 percentage requirement. I think this is the wrong way to go into these negotiations. We have great, great challenges in the European Union that we need to address, both in relation to the green transition, in relation to social stability and so on, and that is where the negotiations must start.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130715	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and then Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has welcomed from a number of parties, we have actually now reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117130735	Thank you. In addition to the fact that we mean what is in the proposal, one of the reasons why we were provoked to put it forward is, of course, all the comments made by the Minister of Finance himself and, above all, the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly said: we are paying enough into the EU budget, we are not paying any more, the budget is too large, the budget must be cut and so on. So have we thought, God knows if they really mean it? God knows if it's really something they're gonna fight for? Or is it just an election pork where you know that the Danes may think it is a lot of money being spent on the EU, and then you say the same thing, but you really do not stand by it when it comes to it? Then we thought that we now had to help the Prime Minister, and that we now had to help the Minister of Finance.I have the quotes here.I know that we in Parliament are giving a message that this is our position and that they can then use it in the negotiations. Okay, well, it shouldn't be taken that seriously. As you know, the road to hell is paved with golden promises, and if we do not end up in a place that is not in line with the statements that have been made, it is, of course, after the European elections. Our view is that there is something absolutely fundamental about the EU's use of money, and it can be summed up in three points. Firstly, it is a misapplication. After all, the biggest item in the budget is agricultural aid, totally disproportionate. I mean, it's a misapplication. Secondly, it is an inappropriate use. You send down money that you then ask to get back. Any transaction of this kind costs money, and that also means that, for example, it costs money. universities and elsewhere in Denmark are beginning to seek funds, research funds, in the EU, not according to what they think is best to research and investigate, but on the basis of where money can be obtained. So the money we send down and get back isn't even worth that much when we get it back. It is therefore an inappropriate use. Thirdly, there is enormous fraud and fraud in relation to EU funds, and it is no coincidence that the European Union has not yet achieved the approval of an accounting document with a purely statutory statement. That is why it is also incredibly easy to save. It is possible to save money because you can start some of these things, which means that you can do a lot of the things that are wanted and, as I understand it, I mentioned some of them in my question to Mr Gundelach. Rasmus Nordqvist therefore invests in more green energy, in a European rail network, helping the disadvantaged countries of Europe, helping countries outside Europe. All that would be possible if you used the money wisely. Finally, apart from the fact that it is relatively easy to save money, there is the paradox of the European Union's economy, which we have also mentioned in this debate, that the European Union is demanding cuts in the Member States, but that they themselves choose not to take the medicine. That is why I think that the starting point for Denmark and for a Danish government should be to go down and say: okay, we are one of the major contributors to the European Union, we are actually one of the biggest contributors, and we are not changing that in this context, but we would like to change the fact that the amount to be paid to the European Union as percentages, Mr. minister, just rising and rising, and that's why we have this red line. It helps the government to stand firm. Unfortunately, the government did not want to accept that help, and we are, of course, sorry about that. We cross our fingers that there will still be a government that will reach the 1%, but we think it would have been easier if we had given our support to this on the part of the Danish Parliament today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131149	Thank you very much. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131153	I actually feel like asking a little the same question as Mr. Søren Søndergaard posed to me. Yes, we can get very far within one percent of green conversion, social stability and lifting countries outside the European Union, the poorest countries, etc., but is the rapporteur convinced that we can achieve far enough by 1%.? Is it not a bad idea to lock us there before we have found the real scale of the budget that is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131223	No, it's the other way around. If the opportunity is there to raise the budget, there will never be a prioritising discussion ^never. For those who are against cutting back on fraud and fraud and in the inappropriate way and the wrong appropriations, those who are against it, say that we can just raise the budget if any of the good things come up. Now I have been sitting in that parliament, and I want to say that I have heard from a lot of people, not only people, I necessarily disagree politically with the fact that the solution to all problems was a higher budget. So if we are to get rid of some of the bad things about the EU budget, if we are to be responsible for fraud and fraud, I think it is very crucial that we have a prioritising discussion, and the priority discussion can be forced by setting a firm framework. Then it may well be that, once the fixed framework has been established, there will then be some proposals that will go beyond the fixed framework and then we will be able to discuss it at that time. However, I would like to say that the Member States must also contribute, and many of the things we are talking about here are money that we are sending down to the European Union to get them back. It is easy to adopt things together, at European level, where the cost is then charged to individual countries. I guess it's very natural. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If we decide that there should be veterinary zones in the countries, so that animals do not have freedom of movement for diseases, etc., then it is the countries that have to pay, and that does not necessarily have to be a cost to the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131359	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131400	In other words, we can be in favour of extending the budget without being in favour of fraud and fraud in the budget. I just think that is important to make that clear first. We have just seen the debate now, and I have had a number of meetings with one of the parliamentary rapporteurs in the budget, Isabelle Thomas of the SD Group, who is talking about that tough priority, but also about enlargement, because we are facing some very, very great challenges. Wouldn't it be a little elastic in meter size to say that we have to make a budget of max. 1%, but in addition, we can take joint decisions imposing additional costs on countries X, Y and Z, because what is the budget framework for? If we make decisions about what more than one percent of the money is going to go to, isn't that a little weird budget to put in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131448	I fully agree that one can easily agree with a larger EU budget without advocating the gluttony and fraud that is taking place in the European Union, but it is only strange that it has not been fought over all the years when it has been talked about. That is incomprehensible, and I think it is because the task is not a priority. The same applies when we talk about the greatest budget item, agricultural aid. We need to discuss a priority for agricultural aid if we are to have money to give for all kinds of good purposes, and I am sure, without knowing exactly that, that with regard to the proposals that come from the Commission too, there will be no significant reduction in agricultural aid, nor, unfortunately, from the political groups, and therefore that priority debate will never be forced.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131540	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then I can give the floor to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131550	Thank you. I have asked somewhat unconventionally to speak again, and this is due to the final exchange of words that was here and to my ability as Minister to correct. Sir. Søren Søndergaard said here in the end: Why has nothing been done at all to combat gluttony and fraud? I'd like to arrest that. Over the past many years, the error rate in EU budgets has fallen year by year. It is not satisfactory, but the error rate in the EU's budgets is decreasing, and there is a smaller proportion of the EU's budgets today giving rise to criticism than we saw for example. 5 years ago. That is why there has been a very careful effort to reduce precisely what Mr. Søren Søndergaard here stood and claimed that no effort was made to reduce, namely the fraud with EU funds. We are not in the finish line, I shall be the first to acknowledge that. I am only satisfied when we can get a clean accountant endorsement, that is, when we get below the standard requirement of a maximum of 2%. errors in EU budgets. So I share the desire to move forward. But I have to arrest it when it is said that nothing has been done, because much has been done in recent years and we have had the error rate reduced year by year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131706	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131708	The error rate has gone up and down, I say to the Minister. Can the Minister confirm that the error rate we have today is roughly the same as we had a number of years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131717	No, I cannot confirm that, because since we had the last discussion, we have actually come further down and have received lower error rates than those we have seen in the past. It is true that one has had a period when the error rate was low and that it then unfortunately rose again. It's true, it's back on the rise. But now we have come down, and if I remember correctly, we have also gone further than what we saw earlier, because we are now approaching the 2-percent limit, which means that we are getting closer to being able to get a clean accountant endorsement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131744	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131745	The error rate in the EU has gone up and down, and in all these years it has not been possible to get a clean accountant endorsement. That is a fact. That error rate is due, among other things, to the fact that the documents have not been properly completed. Some of this is because you haven't quite understood what you should be looking for. And something else, a small part, is the result of fraud and fraud. So it remains to an extent that has been unacceptable. Why has it not been brought below a level where it can be said that it is acceptable, in other words at an acceptable level? There is one explanation: you have not been whipped for it. If you had been whipped to it instead of just raising the budget, it would have been possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131833	In my view, the error rate has nothing to do with the size of the budget. We have been involved in apologizing for whiping the systems to get the error rate down, and we have actually succeeded. The efforts taken by Denmark to tighten up procedures and tighten controls have led us to reduce the error rate over the past year and have gone further than we have seen in the past. We are not in the finish line, but I am sure that if the government is allowed to continue the line it has set, then we will get to the finish line and get what I think is actually the wish of the Danish Parliament, namely an EU financial statement that can be approved with a blank accountant endorsement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131906	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131909	Now that the Minister has gone on the floor, I would like to ask whether the Minister thinks that it would soon be a good idea to obtain a mandate. You can hardly call it early in the European Committee so that the negotiations can take place on a proper basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131925	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117131926	I think that the negotiations are taking place on a good basis, even if no mandate has been obtained, among other things. Because, although we have not had a negotiating proposal in the European Committee, we have had this discussion here, among other things. with a hearing to which I myself have been invited, in which both the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Finance have been invited to come and have a technical examination of the draft budget. We have discussed it very, very much. I do not agree if the premise for the conversation here is that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist believes that the only necessary condition for a qualified debate is that a negotiating document has been obtained. So I do not agree with the premise. In fact, I think we can have a good debate on this, including a substantive and substantive debate, without having obtained a negotiating proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132006	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132007	When, then, does the Minister think that a negotiating document should be obtained for the negotiations which are already taking place and which have now come a very long way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132016	I had almost said: at the same time as usual. Because it is not unusual to start negotiations, and if you have an idea of where they are going and what you really need to ask for support for, then you will catch up with the negotiating table. That is why we need to be more clear about what, if necessary, we need to ask for a negotiating proposal, for example. in relation to the content. It may be a little funny for those who are out there listening that we are discussing so hard when it is something we are so basically agreed on. For we in the Danish Parliament are basically in agreement on the need to modernise the EU's budgets, moving them from traditional agricultural areas and structural funds to the modern: climate, research, security and migration. And there we need to have a clearer knowledge of where we are going before, in my view, we can realistically and objectively come and ask for a negotiating proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132109	Then we can thank the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132124	The debate is open. And that's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132202	Thank you for the motions for resolutions. These are two motions for resolutions tabled by Enhedslisten, B 38 and B 39, on procurement rules and companies in tax havens. In B 38, the Government is required to amend the Danish Procurement Act so that public entities can exclude companies from participating in a tender if the company is either located in a tax haven or is part of a group and co-taxes with a parent company that has final taxation in a tax haven. In B 39, the government is required to work to change EU procurement rules so that Member States can opt out of an undertaking by public tender if it makes use of tax havens. The government fully agrees that it is essential to combat tax fraudsters. All parties of the Danish Parliament have stressed the importance of an offensive action against tax havens when concluding the agreement to strengthen the fight against international tax evasion of May 2017. With this agreement, a lot of things have already been set in motion: a new centre that brings together and focuses on the fight against international tax evasion, more resources to control tax havens, increased openness on tax advice and continued offensive international action by Denmark. However, the Government does not agree that changing the procurement rules at both national and EU level is the way to promote good tax practice. There are some reasons why the government cannot and will not support the resolution, and I would like to explain that. I would like to start with motion for a resolution B 38 and explain why the government cannot support it. The first part of B 38 is that the Procurement Act must be amended so that a company can be excluded from an invitation to tender in Denmark if the company is located in a tax haven. Tax havens are defined in the Enhedslisten resolution as countries or areas placed on the EU blacklist of tax havens. It is already possible today to exclude companies from participating in an invitation to tender in Denmark if the company is located in a country on the EU's so-called blacklist, which is a list of countries considered to be tax havens, and it has not signed a GPA agreement under the auspices of the WTO or has a free trade agreement with the EU. Companies convicted of financial crime, fraud, infringements of tax rules, etc. may also be excluded. Therefore, the exclusion of such an undertaking does not require a change in the contract law ^ it is already possible today. The second part of the motion for a resolution B 38 is that the Procurement Act should be amended so that a company can be excluded from an invitation to tender if the company is jointly taxed with a parent company which has final taxation in a tax haven. This means that a public contracting entity must be able to exclude a subsidiary from participating in a tender if the parent company is definitively taxed in a tax haven. Today, a contracting entity, i.e.: a State, a municipality or a region, i.e. a public body, relates only to that part of an undertaking which is responsible for the task and has to carry out the task. Therefore, the decisive factor is whether the undertaking which offers meets its tax obligations in the country in which the undertaking is located. It is not appropriate to accommodate the motion for a resolution on that point. Firstly, it will mean that a public contracting entity will have to make a concrete assessment of how connected companies have organised their tax relations. This is not necessarily a straightforward and transparent task. Secondly, it would be contrary to legal certainty to exclude a company for tax reasons if the company that is excluded did not actually breach tax legislation. I am not a tax minister, but the premise for the proposal seems to be that there are connected companies that are in a way of international co-taxation with a parent company located in a creepy tax haven somewhere in the world. The rules on international co-taxation mean that income from a company in another country is taxed in Denmark. If a Danish company enters into a co-taxation with a parent company in a tax haven somewhere in the world, tax will therefore continue to have to be paid in Denmark. Therefore, it may be questioned whether related companies will behave in such a way that the parent company is located in tax havens. Finally, I would like to mention Denmark's commitments to the European Union. In EU cooperation, Denmark has undertaken to treat companies in the same way within the EU's internal market and thus to create equal access to, among other things. the market for public tasks. EU rules imply a duty of mutual recognition of the laws and regulations of the other EU countries. It is not allowed to refuse access to the market of companies in an EU Member State which simply comply with national legislation. In our view, therefore, it would be a breach of EU rules if Denmark introduced a rule which excludes a company that is legally jointly taxed with a parent company in another country. Against this background, the government cannot support motion for a resolution B 38, that is to say. amend the national procurement rules. Then I will move on to motion for a resolution B 39 and explain why the government will not support B 39, which is about changing EU procurement rules. The free market, free access to the markets of the other EU countries, is one of the cornerstones of the European Union. A change to this will require a fundamental change in EU cooperation, and that change will, in my opinion, involve one of two things: it will either be a break with the very basic idea of a common market between the Member States of the European Union, which Denmark has now benefited from since 1972, or it will be a step towards a more federal European Union in which the Member States of the European Union have common tax rules. And there are neither of the two scenarios which, in the view of the government, are in Denmark's interest. Mutual recognition means that Danish companies are free to sell their goods or services within the EU's borders. It ensures against the favouritism of national producers in the other EU countries and against barriers to trade that can make it more difficult to gain a foothold on foreign markets in the EU. In relation to the public procurement market, this means that Danish companies have the same access to tender in public procurement as companies in other EU countries. The government thinks we should preserve that. Against this background, the government will not support motion for a resolution B 39. So, overall, the government does not support either motion for a resolution B 38 or motion for a resolution B 39.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117132959	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments at least not in this Chamber. I'm sure they'll be there. That is to say, we are going to deal with the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, the Social Democrat, who is in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133029	Thank you very much for that and, as with the previous resolution, I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting forward these proposals and taking up this debate. In the Social Democratic Party we fully share Enhedslisten's concern, outrage and in every way need to address the increasing trend that has been over too many years for large corporations and wealthy people to place their profits in tax havens around. We also share the concern that this contributes to undermining the financing of our welfare societies, as well as to rocking something fundamental: the social contract, which helps both to create stability and to keep Western societies together. We share the outrage which can also be read from the motions for resolutions about the fact that there are certain EU rules that make it possible. We see this in general terms, and I think that is also evident from discussions we have in the Committee on European Affairs from time to time, with great wonder on the blacklist adopted by the European Union. It is, of course, a very positive step in itself, but the way in which it is managed in relation to who is on the list and, to a large extent, who is being taken off the list, we find it extremely problematic. As far as the two motions for resolutions are concerned, we agree with a number of the comments made by the Minister of Industry in relation to B 38 in particular. Today there is already an opportunity to assess invitations to tender in the context of the rules in force on the basis of who is on the blacklist, and with reference to the comments I made earlier that the variety list has not been properly screwed up, that is to say, it is there that the effort must lie, and not in a one-sided change in the Danish procurement rules. It must be compared with the fact that it would also be incompatible with the rules in force. That is why we cannot support B 38, but we fully share the intention of the Enhedslisten. As far as B 39 is concerned, we also see both the desire and the need to change the rules on supply in the long run. We do not have the same fears as the Minister for Business that there are several areas where there can be more common rules on taxation. This is true right now in relation to the debate on a digital tax in Europe, where we clearly believe that there is a fundamental need to look at the fact that the activities of a number of very large tech companies have changed in character, so that it is actually those who click and use the product themselves that turn into the product. We see it in relation to a tax on financial transactions, and we also see it very much in relation to the need for EU countries to come together to create a common bottom below corporate tax. We do not agree, however, that we should like to see it. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had to have general majority voting on taxation, etc., but we think that the EU countries should work more closely together here. Therefore, our call to the Enhedslisten will also be for those parties that agree on this to come together on some kind of report text in connection with B 39. So to sum up, we share overall the Enhedslisten's concern, and I think that we are also interested in working in the same direction, although our method choices are different. We are not tabling motions for resolutions in Parliament, we are working through the European Union and hopefully also putting pressure on the government of the European Committee when the individual proposals are before us, and then we hope that we can agree to talk about B 39, while unfortunately we have to reject B 38.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133420	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133423	In B 38, we define how we perceive countries with tax havens. This is contrary to what the minister said: not only countries placed on the EU's blacklist of tax havens, but also countries placed on a possible Danish list of tax havens. Because we are in favour of a Danish list being drawn up, and that is why I would like to ask the rapporteur for the Social Democrats whether they are also in favour of such a Danish list being drawn up. Because we can see that the list that is in the European Union is very limited, and that is why it is a very limited number of tax havens that can be hit. For example: We cannot hit some of the largest tax havens in the world and which happen to be in the European Union. For no EU country must be on the EU's list of tax havens. Then the rapporteur agrees that we need to make a list of our own here. Of course, we can also work to change the EU list, but that is to say that we need to make a list of our own here and that the problem today is that it is very limited which countries can actually hit legally within the framework of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133543	I share the criticism that today too few countries are actually on the EU's blacklist of tax havens. I share the criticism that countries are being taken off the list only based on the indication by the countries that they intend to change their tax practices rather than taking countries off the list when they have actually changed their tax practices. I also share the criticism of those countries which, within the EU, act as quarters, half or entire tax havens or, at least for years, have contributed to different tax practices. However, I also believe that it should be based on common rules within the framework of the European Union. We are not in favour of a unilateral Danish approach to this issue, also because it would be contrary to both the Treaty and other EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133637	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133639	I do not understand why it should be based on a common approach if it is not possible to have a common approach. I mean, the question is, how long are we gonna be laughing about our own tax money? How long do the taxpayers in the municipalities have to be skinned to pay to the municipal treasury, which will then spend the money on some companies that send their profits to or operate in tax havens? Well, that doesn't make any sense. In other words, does the European Union really mean such an interference in our independence that we cannot even be completely ridiculous for our own money? I agree that we must work to change the rules of the European Union. We have also proposed this, and that is where Enhedslisten is walking on two legs. But are we really going to be a laughing stock for our own money until we succeed in 10, 15, 20, 30 years? In other words, it is at least very contrary to what a number of social democratic mayors and left-wing mayors in the municipalities are calling for. Because they have to pay money for tax havens on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133745	We are not interested in anyone being a laughing stock for taxpayers' money. We are interested in solving the problems. That is why we have a discussion on how to solve the problems most effectively and the model that Mr. Søren Søndergaard is proposing and I can well understand that sounds attractive right now and at the same time will also be a fundamental breach of the principles of the internal market. First of all, you have to think this through very, very carefully, and then you have to define what it really is for some companies you wanted to hit with this. Well, what would that mean? And I cannot answer that on a stand-by basis, which is why I am actually calling for discussion to continue rather than just tabling motions for resolutions. Would this mean that all companies based in Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Ireland and some of the British islands, or for that matter in Britain, as long as they are not yet fully registered, will not be able to trade with Danish municipalities or regions or offer them tasks or the like as long as they exist, or for that matter the Danish state? I mean, where does the boundary go with these things? In any case, we think this is worth further discussion and we are on the basis that we believe that common rules are best.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133856	We thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117133908	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has put forward two proposals which, in different ways, try to deal with the question of whether companies located wholly or partly in tax havens can be exempted from public procurement. B 38 concerns a change in the Danish procurement rules, while B 39 requires the government to work to change EU procurement rules. We share the concern that companies choose to place themselves in tax havens, as Enhedslisten expresses. Most recently we have seen how the company Dantaxi has been acquired by the Capital Fund Triton, which is located in tax havens in Jersey and Luxembourg. The Danish procurement rules are subject to EU law, and a change to the Danish procurement rules, as proposed by Enhedslisten, would therefore be contrary to EU rules. You can then choose to blow it loud and nicely, and we in the Danish People's Party certainly want to do so. It is obvious that it is unreasonable for public authorities not to be able to opt out of companies which choose not to contribute to our common welfare, but which would therefore like to have a share in the tasks whose performance is paid for by our common welfare. Therefore, the Danish People's Party is also in favour of both proposals. However, we have a comment on the question of what characterises a tax havens country. In the proposal, Enhedslisten refers to the EU blacklist of tax havens, and here I have to say that if we are to be quite fair, then it is not worth the paper on which it is written. After all, the EU has taken one country after another of the blacklist, with reference to such more or less often less binding statements that it would correct the problems. And it has happened on such a large scale that it is now only the Danish West Indies who are left on the list together with a handful of other countries. Everyone knows that the problem of tax havens is far greater than the Danish West Indies. So that EU blacklist can't be used for anything. The Enhedslisten then also refers to a possible Danish blacklist, and probably also to the extent that it might be translated into national blacklists in other EU countries. And here it is clear that such a blacklist can be different in scope. And I also call for this to be established because, as I said, the EU's blacklist is practically useless in this context. I must also acknowledge that I am not very optimistic about changing the conditions under which that list will be drawn up within the European Union. Nor am I optimistic about the fact that we should reach the point where we would consider listing EU countries, even if this should be quite timely. In reality, it is unthinkable to get there. It seems more like it's been planned to get thinned out in that list as soon as possible. So, as I said, national blacklists are probably the only truly viable way forward. But of course it complicates things further in terms of getting through with the proposal at European level. However, in the Danish People's Party we would very much like to acknowledge the initiative of the proposers and say that we share objectives as well as means. Because, as I also began by saying, it is obviously unreasonable that companies located in whole or in part in tax havens cannot be excluded, and there is at least a broad municipal consensus on this. Whether it can materialize in a will to do something about it here in the Folketing, then time must show. But thank you for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134252	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134306	Thank you. Let me start by saying so that I do not forget that I should like to welcome the Conservative rapporteur and say that the Conservative rapporteur agrees with the Conservative Minister for Business and also agrees with what I am going to say now and that is very nice. It is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, with the number B 38, and the aim is to ensure that public contracts are not awarded to companies using tax havens. In addition, the proposers of B 39 want EU procurement rules to be amended to allow the public authorities to opt out of tax havens. We in the Left fully agree that it is essential to combat tax fraudsters and tax havens, which are not necessarily tax frauds. This must be combated by the means at our disposal, for tax havens are, after all, directly subversive to our society and its cohesion. I also find it difficult to understand that in large parts of the company there is no higher morale, which means that you do not simply leave tax havens behind. But this is a completely different debate. Having said that, it is already possible to exclude companies located in tax havens, and this is specifically about the 17 countries on the EU's blacklist. These are countries that are all outside the European Union and there are no free trade agreements between these countries and the European Union. Korea is, however, a single exception for the sake of completeness South Korea is involved. In relation to B 39, the Left is of the opinion that, unfortunately, the EU Treaty does not provide for the introduction of the proposed rule from the resolution. And as the Minister so well explained, Denmark has undertaken to treat companies within the EU's internal market in the same way and to mutually recognise the laws and regulations of the other EU countries. It is therefore a very central part of the internal market that this draft law brings to an end, and we do not think that is a good idea. In this context, I would also like to point out that it is already possible to exclude companies outside the European Union with which we do not have a free trade agreement. Moreover, a review shows that only 1 in 14,654 public contracts during the period 2015-2017 was won by a company located in a tax haven. However, with current legislation it is already possible to exclude companies located in tax havens from public contracts. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134539	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134543	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen mentioned that there were 17 countries on the EU blacklist, and that is true. It was there when it was decided back in, I think it was December 2017, but that is perhaps what the minister has just been up with a note for Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen has taken a large number of countries off the side, which is why Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen perhaps, on the basis of the note given by the Minister, indicate how many countries are actually on it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134628	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134628-2	That's right. I regret that I have spoken nonsense and even from the country's most distinguished platform. These are indeed historical figures with the 17, and the new figures are 5, and that is also what the Minister has been kind enough to give me. It's at the moment. only 5 countries on the EU tax havens. But it is a dynamic list where countries can get on and countries can get off.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134652	Thus guided. But there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134656	Yes, and I shall be the last one to criticise that when I think about how much nonsense I have said over the years from the Parliament's platform, so that's all right. Forgiveness is a good thing. But Mr. So Jan E. Jørgensen does not admit that it is really a very limited opportunity for the EU to blacklist countries or to hit countries that are on the tax havens, when the blacklist is now down to 5, and that it is certainly not something that hits where the big tax havens are? After all, we know that the very large tax havens are also within the European Union. So isn't it necessary okay, I understand that you're not satisfied with what we've proposed here with some completely different methods to get something done about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134745	Yes, it is, whether it is 5 or 17, because tax havens are unfortunately a widespread phenomenon. It is fair enough to compete on favourable conditions to the business world, but when it goes on and becomes a serious tax haven, that is, where all you have to offer is a post office box and then a ridiculously low tax, it is clearly a problem and something that undermines our ability to maintain the welfare societies we have. That is why it is something that needs to be worked on, but this work must be done within the framework of the European Union, and it must not be done by going around in the individual Member States making our own rules. Moreover, it will also be much more effective if we are together in the European Union to fight tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134829	With that, we thank Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Then it is the next in the rapporteur's line, and it is actually Mr. President. Joachim B. Olsen, I can see here on my list, so apparently there's floating replacement in the Liberal Alliance at the moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134856	Thank you so much. It will come as no surprise that we cannot support these motions for resolutions. We do not believe that companies should be penalised as long as they comply with the rules. Basically, we think that procurement rules are good as they are; they ensure competition in the supply of public tasks, and we believe that doing what Enhedslisten proposes will go in the opposite direction. There is already an opportunity today to opt out of companies operating in tax havens, and that is why we cannot support the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134943	He made it one more time anyway. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117134949	It was because I was surprised at how short and cash Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance spoke. That's why I didn't get my finger on the button until he got to the last sentence. But I just think, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that it must be allowed to ask a question when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen himself now mentions that there is an opportunity to do something about tax havens. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, that opportunity is satisfactory? In other words, we have just discussed it; it covers virtually no countries, and it certainly does not include the large tax havens. Well, why does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen to it? If sir... Joachim B. Olsen should be real, why does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen did not see that the EU should also get rid of that tax havens and that it is quite all right to be in tax havens? 'Cause I guess that's it, sir. Joachim B. Olsen means.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135049	I would say, overall, that I think the discussion about tax havens sometimes becomes a bit diffuse. The definitions flow a little bit, as they do in other areas when the left is discussing social dumping and other things. You have like a few words, and you use them for things you don't like. It is as if in any case there are some people who have chosen to have a completely democratic legislation other than that chosen in Denmark, and a lower tax rate that chooses to call it tax havens. And then there are not many places in the world that are not tax havens. These things must be resolved within the framework of the European Union. We're not going alone. In other words, we do not have much opportunity to do so, and I think that would be wrong too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135145	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135148	Well, that is precisely why we are putting forward two proposals for the brave and those who really want to do something here and now, and one for the more hesitant and those who can think more long-term and many years in the future, which is about us trying to change the European Union. Then why not support it? This brings me back to the same question as before: why, however, refer to an opportunity in the European Union to block tax havens when everyone can see that that option is almost non-existent? Why not either say that the truth is that it is non-existent and you are sorry and want to do something about that, or say that it is non-existent, and that is something you are glad about, because it seems to me that the tax havens are good for forcing down taxes, including in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135234	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135235	But in relation to the question of being brave or not being brave, I do not think there is anything particularly brave about proposing things that cannot be done. Then it is very easy to call yourself brave, and it is such a thing that is up in time, I think, not only on the Enhedslisten side, but there are also many other parties that have such finger-tip solutions; you just have to do this, and then all the problems are gone. We have seen this in England, and we also see it on the right, also in Denmark. There are also parties that have all kinds of proposals that they themselves call brave. But reality is often more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135319	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen and pass the baton on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135329	Thank you. It is about these two proposals about what we should do in relation to tax havens and public procurement. What is important to start by talking about, and as has already been mentioned, is this list that we already have in the European Union and, as such, in the best days, is a little funny, because it is as little comprehensive as it is, with the few countries that are left on it. One has not dared to take a real step and say that countries within the European Union must also be able to stand on it, since there are tax havens within the European Union. That's why it's important to look at how to change this whole area and how we can do something about tax havens. This calls for closer cooperation in the field of taxation at international level and especially in the European Union. Because then it's that we're starting to be able to take those steps so we can do this. That is also why we stand differently on the two proposals, B 38 and B 39 respectively. We support B 39, because we think that this is a very good proposal which needs to be actively worked for. We believe that much closer work needs to be done in the field of taxation, because companies are acting cross-borderly, and that is why the tax area in relation to companies must also be dealt with cross-borderly and within the framework of the European Union. I am actually glad that the two proposals are being considered together, because they are linked. And in relation to B 38, you can say that we can do that, but then it doesn't work out after all. And what would be the most effective way of pushing this agenda into the European Union? In fact, I believe in a strong opinion from the Parliamentary Assembly which will be in line with what has also been done by the Netherlands, and the Dutch Parliament has also done so here, and all the work that is going on in a number of national parliaments in relation to the whole tax cooperation in the European Union, where I certainly have contact with several different countries where there is actually work and criticism of the working group that sits in the Council and is working on doing these things. That's how I think we're gonna change these things. That is why we support B 39 and not B 38. And I would like to welcome from the SF in connection with B 39 and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135547	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no more rapporteurs in the line who have not had the opportunity, so we have now reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117135605	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, in the European Union there is a long tradition of watching over tax havens. After all, it is also a fact that some of the world's largest tax havens are located in the European Union, and that is why when you have to elect a President of the Commission in the European Union, you choose a Prime Minister who has been Prime Minister for years in a country that has been characterised by tax havens. One simply does not see it as a problem when one chooses the lead representative of the Commission that it is a person who has secured his country's income by grooming other countries and establishing tax havens in his country. The way in which the European Union has last seen its hand over tax havens is in relation to the issue of this blacklist, which has turned into a joke. As we had it solved before, it did indeed start with 17 countries, but with a lot of opportunities to get off, if you promised and said etc., and now it looks like it's down to the five countries, or was it 7. It is clear that this is not at all an expression of the tax havens that exist. It has to be said that, as an EU country, you cannot be on that list at all, so you have guaranteed, as in advance, that at least you will not be affected by the sanctions that would result from that list or, if necessary, from that list. And we think that is really boring and really bad, but we think it is just as bad and just as boring that EU rules then prevent individual countries from making some rules themselves. Surely it is all right for the European Union to decide that they like tax havens and that they are not really going to do anything about this, but why do they have to go in and block countries that have a different view? We find that regrettable, but that is what is actually being done in relation to the opportunities that Denmark has to make rules against tax havens. We can take the concrete example, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth argued, namely 4x48, which was bought by a capital fund located in tax havens. Let us imagine a region that will soon be abandoned, but then you can call it a health service in Aarhus or somewhere else, a health service in Hillerød or anywhere else that needs to have a job done with taxi driving patients to their hospitals for blood tests, or whatever. They must then make an offer, but can they then say that they do not want to choose a taxi company owned by a capital fund which has its activities in a tax havens? According to EU rules, the answer is no. Then you can say that they are paying taxes on the money they make in Denmark, and yes, that is actually true, but whether they are actually doing it or whether there are all kinds of internal things, you can only know if you are allowed to go in and examine the accounts to the bottom, which is not possible. So the reality is that the EU rules mean that we are making fun of our own tax money. Danish citizens must pay to companies that have their activities in tax havens. One has to recognise that the European Union sees this as an important thing to do, but we do not. Tax havens are harmful because it deprives us of the opportunity to have the welfare society we want on the basis of a democratically composed Parliament, which both determines the tax rate and decides what to spend money on. It is, of course, democracy, but that is what can be undermined; the financing of it can be undermined by tax havens, and that is why it is so harmful. This not only undermines the economy, it also undermines democracy, and it is therefore necessary that something be done. As I said before, Enhedslisten is a two-legged party. We are not just sitting here and saying: get out of the European Union! We are, but as long as we are a member of the European Union, we are doing everything we possibly can to do things as well as possible. That is why we think that we should work within the European Union to change these rules, but I have to admit that I am not extremely optimistic as to whether they are successful, nor am I extremely optimistic as to how quickly they are successful. And there we have the impression that there are such basic things, you have to go ahead and show the way, take responsibility yourself and say that this is simply too much. And why do I really think that doing so might also help to change the European Union? I believe that because when I look at the world as it stands today, I would say that there are two areas where people's perception, the perception of ordinary people, is moving enormously quickly. One is on the issue of climate, even right up to the level of what you eat, veganism, vegetarian diet, that sort of thing. There is a violent development because people have understood that action is necessary in relation to the climate crisis, also in person. The second area in which there is a dramatic development in people's attitudes is on the issue of taxation and the large multinational companies, the tax evasion of large companies, economic crime. People are tired of it, people just don't want it anymore. And if we therefore made some rules in Denmark where we said that people who are in tax havens cannot be involved in public procurement, yes, what would happen? We would then have a letter of formal notice from the Commission. Then there would be some discussion back and forth, and then at some point the Commission would have to decide whether it would raise a case against Denmark, whether it would knock Denmark into place or what it would like. And it may well be that getting that discussion out in public can help even the Commission to realise that it will probably not be a good position for the European Union so completely unambiguous and completely open and declared itself on the side of the tax fraudsters. We've seen that before. We have seen this in the case of bisphenol A, where there was a similar situation and where the fact that Denmark took the lead helped to change the position that was in the European Union. That is why, although we are, of course, working to change things in the European Union, we believe that the best way to change them in the European Union will actually be for Denmark to take the lead. That is also why we have put forward two proposals here. We can then hear that some people are with us all the way, some are with a little bit of the way, and then there are some of the parties who really do not really have an opinion on what is being done effectively to combat the tax fraud problem. But we are happy about a little, and this discussion will of course continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117140403	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the proposals be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117140418	There are different types of circus, that's right. We are opening the negotiations, and we are doing so with the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117140439	Thank you. Sometimes politicians are blamed for not having very much practical experience, but this particular circus I actually have practical experience with. In the context of a possible future Treaty amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon, the Enhedslist will require the government to require that the European Parliament be moved from Strasbourg to Brussels, so that in future it will have only one meeting place. It is clear from the comments on the proposal that the proposal intends that Denmark should put maximum pressure on the other EU countries to move the European Parliament from Strasbourg to Brussels and that this should be a prerequisite for Denmark to support any future Treaty changes. The Government agrees that it is both impractical and unnecessarily resource-intensive for MEPs and staff to travel almost every month between Brussels and Strasbourg. It costs both time and money that could be better spent. The government therefore believes that the European Parliament should have only one seat, namely Brussels, and that all Parliament meetings should be held there. The government has made this clear many times in the past. As you know, this will require a Treaty amendment and, as you know, a Treaty amendment will require unanimity between all the Member States of the European Union, including the country in which the European Parliament meets to this day. Therefore, it does not make sense to go further into what the Danish negotiating strategy and the Danish priorities will look like at that time. Moreover, the government is not working for treaty changes. In the hypothetical situation, it will be up to the current government to determine Denmark's negotiating priorities after consultation of the Folketing. If at that time it turns out to be such an important priority for Denmark that we in Denmark must threaten to block the negotiations, then we must do so. If Denmark were then to have other and more important priorities, it would have to be up to the current government to make that balance. The Government therefore agrees with the proposers that the European Parliament's meetings should be held in one place, but the government cannot support B42 because decisions on how Denmark should prioritise its negotiating capital in a possible treaty negotiation must be taken if and when this is relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117140651	We thank the Secretary of State. There are no brief comments. Then the first rapporteur is actually Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, who is now eiling from the back of the hall against the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117140713	Thank you, President. Once again, thank you for being polite to Enhedslisten to make this proposal and also to bring the debate up again. To those who sit at home in their rooms and come with us, I can say that we are working on a whole series of proposals that Enhedslisten has put forward. These are all important issues and all of them which pinpoint some basic problems. The challenge with this motion for a resolution and some of the other resolutions that we have discussed earlier today is that the way in which Enhedslisten then chooses to go on how to resolve it will be too rigid. If the Social Democrats cannot support this motion for a resolution, it is not because we do not share the outrage or are most appalled that every single month Parliament must move with everything it can bear from Brussels to Strasbourg. Because we do. In this light, it is also paradoxically noted in parentheses that when it was changed to do so as often as it is done today, it was after all the time when a treaty amendment was needed in order for Denmark to be able to register its reservations. Then the French rushed to seize the opportunity to demand Parliament to Strasbourg more often than had been the case in the past. If we cannot support the resolution today, it is also, of course, because the Enhedslisten makes it a requirement that in future Treaty changes we do not know when to come, but hopefully they will come, I say, at some point in time we must put it as a condition that the travel circus is abolished in order to vote for treaty changes. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is simply too rigid. For example, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats share the ambition that a social protocol should be drawn up which equates the principles of the internal market with respect for workers' fundamental rights, wages and working conditions, and this will require a change in the Treaty. If it is actually possible to register that equality for the sake of the internal market with regard to the fundamental rights, wages and working conditions of employees, then we will not say that we do not want it, because at the same time there is no support from the French to change this strange, strange and actually quite damaging practice, I think, of moving around with Parliament. That is why it will simply be too rigid, although we fully share Enhedslisten's criticism of this by moving around Parliament and also want to see it abolished. But again, we disagree with the method of trying to force it through. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141001	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141004	Is it the view of the Social Democrats that in any future treaty debate the Danish Government should raise this as a requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141018	A clear question. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141020	Yes, that is the view of the Social Democratic Party, but I am not sure that we agree on whether it should be an ultimate demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141030	It did not give rise to any further comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141037	Thank you. Yes, what can one almost say about this proposal other than that it should be an expedition; it should be a question of kicking in an open door. In other words, rarely is there anything bigger galimatias than what you see when the European Parliament changes its headquarters on a monthly basis. The only thing we can almost welcome is that the Coal and Steel Union did not decide in its wisdom at the time to place a parliament in each of the countries. We would then have had six parliaments and then, instead of going to Strasbourg one week and Brussels the other week, we could also have traveled to Rome one week and Amsterdam no, it was The Hague, but perhaps they could have found out that it was Amsterdam when it was The Hague. Yes, it could have been a dangerous honesty, an even greater honesty than it is at present. After all, we are not there, but, well, anyone can tell themselves that this is madness. Imagine the situation that the Danish Parliament was to leave Copenhagen one week and then Aarhus the next week and then back to Copenhagen it would be a terrible mess. So I guess it's a good idea to have one seat in one place. As the authors also point out, this is something that is incredibly costly. As far as I remember from the proposal, the cost is about 1 billion. kr. Every year, and it is absurdly ridiculous that so much money should be flushed into the toilet. I would actually go so far as to say that if those French people insist that it should be in Strasbourg, let it be in Strasbourg and skip it in Brussels. I mean, I think it's completely crazy what you're witnessing, and it can't end fast enough. I also hope and believe that a future government which would have to negotiate a treaty amendment will indicate this. Whether you can wring your arm around those French guys in relation to this question, I'm a little bit skeptical about it, but I think the attempt should be made. And from historical times we Danish Vikings are very good at what is called arming, so perhaps you should try a little extra next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141301	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left Party, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141309	Thank you very much, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. I cannot make any sense whatsoever of having what Enhedslisten calls a travel circus, where you have meetings in Brussels 3 weeks, and then you move the whole shop to Strasbourg where you meet 1 week and then you go back to Brussels. It is a political compromise when this is the worst: France should have something and Belgium should have something, and then one could not quite agree, and then it became such a Salomonic solution and no doubt about it. A problem with that is that it has gone so far and become a symbol of what many say is wrong with EU bureaucracy and so on. There you can see how crazy they are down in the EU as you like to say when you use this as an example. So it would be a very good move to make it stop and to have all the meetings put in Brussels. It is in the very clear interest of the European Union and it would strengthen popular support, popular legitimacy for the European Union, and we in the Left so much want that. That is why we fully agree with the intention behind the proposal, namely that we must stop this and that it is something that Denmark must travel to the other countries. The question is which process should be used. So we have to go in and make this a requirement and as a prerequisite for supporting a treaty amendment at all, no matter what the Treaty says? No. I mean, it's not a way to make progress in politics. It may well be that one has not yet experienced it in the Enhedslisten, but politics is therefore about making compromises. I do not want to sign that the Left cannot support any treaty amendment in the future. It might be quite reasonable if it does not also include the question of where Parliament is holding its meetings. For that reason, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141523	Thanks to the Left. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, the replacement, sir. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141543	Thank you for that, President. I have little news to add to what the other rapporteurs have said. However, the Enhedslisten will require the government, in the context of a possible Treaty amendment, to require the European Parliament to move from Strasbourg to Brussels in order to minimise the number of travel days. As the other rapporteurs have said, we also find it totally unnecessary to have two seats for the European Parliament. It is costly and it is difficult to move around employees and parliamentarians. This is a view which we welcome, the government also shares. But it is also a little out of date to discuss, as at the moment. there is no intention of amending the Treaty. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141646	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as representative of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141704	Thank you. Of the five EU resolutions we are discussing today, I must admit that I do not understand B 42, and what we are discussing here. I think these are some very important discussions that are being raised about the budget, about tax havens and also the next thing we are going to discuss about European democracy and parties, but just about this: who really supports the travelling parliament? I have not heard any parliamentary parties support the idea that it should move back and forth between Strasbourg and Brussels. I have not heard any Danish MEPs support it. In fact, I have not heard any Member States of the European Union other than France support around it. Of the many French MEPs I know, I have not even met anyone who supports it. It is such an entirely national interest of the French Government that supports this. So you can say in some way that national special interests are above the common interest in this issue, and it is, of course, unanimity that needs to be achieved, and then it is quite difficult to change it. We cannot support this proposal because we do not actually think that we should stand in the way of Treaty changes. If the social protocol, which I know the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is also a great advocate, would I have us say 'no' because we did not have President Macron, or who is now sitting and setting foot in relation to the travelling parliament? No, I wouldn't. So, yes, let us say once and for all, again and again, from all parties, all members of the Folketing, that it is a strange rule to move back and forth between Strasbourg and Brussels, and let us hope that one day France will see it as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141849	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, and I did not hear that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist was to greet from the rest of the parties, as it was otherwise a habit. But now it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117141907	Thank you. With this proposal, the Enhedslist will, of course, require the government, in the context of a possible future treaty debate, to demand that the activities of the European Parliament be brought together in one place. Let me begin by saying that I think the aim of the proposal is very sympathetic. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree that it is completely silly that the European Parliament should travel back and forth between Brussels and Strasbourg. Travelling in many different ways is very inappropriate. Firstly, as has already been mentioned, it is expensive. It is estimated to cost more than 100 million. Euros a year to move between the two cities, which is not exactly the same as that, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentioned, but 850 million. Danish kroner is also a lot of money to spend on this, money that could undoubtedly have been spent for better purposes. Secondly, it is impractical and time consuming to transport members, employees and materials back and forth between the two cities. Thirdly, it also has an environmental burden which is inappropriate because of the location between the two cities. Travel activity back and forth is estimated to derive 19,000 tonnes of CO2 In addition, as others have also mentioned, travel and the debate on travel also contribute to giving the EU a bad reputation, because it is just so difficult to defend. So we are very much in agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution that travel is both impractical and unnecessary and that Parliament should have one seat, namely in Brussels. In terms of content, we agree with the proposers, but in terms of method we do not entirely agree. We will not commit ourselves in advance to what negotiating conditions we should impose in a possible treaty debate and thus also risk blocking some other changes that would be in Danish interest. Our negotiating priorities must be decided at the given time and with the given majority of the people, and that can change many times before we have to negotiate treaty changes. So no matter how much we can all agree that travel is foolish, we know that France is very likely to block it, and that is why we must assess whether that is where we will use our forces and political capital in such possible negotiations. So we cannot support the proposal on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142146	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142155	I am actually incredibly pleased that all parties, without exception, reject this absurd travel circus, rejecting the fact that it costs that small billion kroner • 850 million. kr. 2 I'm actually really glad that everyone agrees on that. It wasn't like that a few years ago. Some years ago, there were actually people, including in this Things, who defended the travel circus with reference to something about that it was peacekeeping and part of history, and that it was very important that we got around the countries, etc. So it's a step forward, and I'm really glad about that. But the question you still have to ask is: why has it not been changed? And, of course, that is what has been mentioned in the Treaty, because we have a situation where a huge majority of the countries of the European Parliament and there are not all countries in fact; there are 26 countries which are in favour of a change that is 1, which is against, and that is France, and then there is Luxembourg, which is such a bit of shit, because they also have some institutions and perhaps might be afraid that at some point it also came to include them and a huge majority of the European population when conducting opinion polls, saying that this must change. If we now normally talk about democracy and we have a majority of the countries, a majority of the people, a majority of the Members behind it, then that should change. And when it does not change, it is because it is in the Treaty. The question that can be asked is how this type of absurdity has, however, found its way into the Treaty. It says something about how much detail that treaty goes in and controls, about what countries can and must not do and how things are going to go, and it is very useful to have a look at it. That alone is an argument for a treaty amendment. The fact that it is in the Treaty means that the courts are judging by it. When I was a Member of the European Parliament, I have also been working on this issue. We tried to say at some point that the Treaty says that monthly sessions should be held in Strasbourg, but everyone has a one-month summer holiday, so let us reduce it to 11 times a year. January, February, March, April, May, June, July and then we spend summer holidays in August, and then September, October, November, December. And so we did. It was brought before the European Court of Justice, and then the European Court of Justice said: "There are monthly meetings'. And since there are 12 months in one year, there must be 12 meetings. That is why we were instructed not to take the summer vacation away from us, to go down there in January, February, March, April, May, June and July, and then to go back and forth to Strasbourg twice in September or twice in October to comply with the Treaty. This is completely insane. The same thing happened when we then tried to say that we could then put together the two sessions we hold in Strasbourg in September, so that we come and last one week and stay over the weekend and then continue. No, it was supposed to be separate so that you could go home from one another. That's the kind of thing people don't understand and for good reason. It is also the thing that makes all parties speak out against it, and a huge majority of the people are against it. And yet it continues. That is why everyone has to say when it is so absurd and everyone agrees that it is so absurd: what do we do about it anyway? I must admit that at the last elections I have been tired of candidates who explained without specification that they were against the travel circus. They might as well have said that they were against winter or against summer, because it doesn't matter. It's an indifferent mark, unless you want to do something. And what are the suggestions? I didn't hear them. What is there of concrete proposals to stop what is so absurd, so crazy? There has been only one proposal, only one proposal, and that is what we have put forward here. Will that be possible? Yes, I actually think it will have a chance, because if there are some countries, for example. Denmark, which is beginning to say that this is absolutely crucial for them, then there will be a number of other countries doing the same. And then the opportunity to build up an understanding in France that this will be a huge problem next time there will be a Treaty change... there will still be no Treaty change against France's wishes... then there may be a chance that you can start negotiating with France for some compensation for giving it there. It may be that they get another European institution's headquarters, it may be that they get some money, it may be anything. There is a possibility of some kind of negotiation. But if there are no countries that say anything, if all countries say something like you, then why should France even consider it? Then France will stand firm. That is why it is not so interesting, perhaps, that we all agree that something needs to be done. What is interesting is what we are going to do to ensure that something happens. And there I can be saddened that so few people have supported this proposal, especially because no one else has been presented. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we will also be criticizing the travel circus in the forthcoming election campaign to the European Parliament. We will also expect a number of you to do so, but then prepare to answer the simple question: What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142833	And we might get an answer to that. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist would certainly like a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142837	I would like to ask the rapporteur: will the Enhedslisten vote against a Treaty amendment that will have a social protocol written into the Treaty if this is not included? Well, that's what's interesting. It is not so much whether you want to fight to change the Treaty, but whether you want to stand in the way of any other amendment to the Treaty because of this. Well, I am a little surprised that Enhedslisten means, when I think of the many discussions we have had in the last few sessions, about the European Union and the whole social dimension. Is the real problem here perhaps not also that with this particular case we have this schism between a narrow national interest, so the French Government's interest in having this and then the community's interest? So that we are actually bound by a little old-fashioned thinking in the community that we are not thinking the community first, but that we are thinking the nation state, here France, first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117142938	But there's nothing wrong with thinking about your own country. And there is nothing wrong with thinking about your country first, if it is problems that do not concern others. I mean, I'm not going to interfere with where France will place their parliament. If France wants to place their parliament in Strasbourg then, for my sake, no alarm. What is the problem is that it is a question which concerns everyone else. And it is clear that if purely national considerations are allowed to be decisive for an issue which concerns everyone else, then we have a problem. Compared to what Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist specifically asks, I would say, that it is the case that in the actual proposal to be put to the vote we are calling for it to be raised in the negotiations. Then it is true that it is our proposal that it should be made ultimate. However, if there is agreement to delete that part of the remarks on our position on how ultimately it should be and only deal with the proposal as it stands here, then we can easily look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143100	You write that Enhedslisten requires a change, and of course you have to have a definition of what to make demands means. I think that we ought to be able to agree that Denmark is opposed to Parliament going back and forth, and on every occasion we would like to bring it to the table. But I just think it's interesting to have this discussion, that is, because it's the Enhedslisten who's making this proposal. And normally we always hear Enhedslisten talk about unanimity and intergovernmental cooperation. I mean, I think there's something a little funny about us having to really push and sneak France in their big desire that it stays the way it has been before. So, perhaps one should also take a look at how decisions are taken in the European Union when one wants to change something like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143149	We are very happy to look at how to make decisions in the European Union. But what is the problem is that we have to distinguish between decisions relating to individual countries and decisions relating to all. And we therefore believe that putting national considerations first when it concerns everyone is a very bad practice. But the fact that we put national considerations first when we say that others should not interfere with the benefit system that we have, because that does not bother anyone else, and we pay everything ourselves, moreover, seems perfectly reasonable. However, let us just conclude by agreeing that what we are voting on is: in the context of a possible future Treaty amendment to the Treaty of Lisbon, Parliament is instructing the government to demand that the European Parliament's travel circus between Brussels and Strasbourg be wound up and replaced with a single seat for the European Parliament's meetings and functions in Brussels. We shall vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143240	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143244	Thank you. In fact, I was actually going to ask exactly the same question that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist was then asked, about how Enhedslisten would stand, if a Treaty amendment had written in a social protocol for which I have worked for many years at Enhedslisten. But what I can understand in Mr. Knox's mind... Søren Søndergaard, and as I just want to confirm, is that the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten is not an ultimate demand for the EU's travel circus to be dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143315	Yes, that is absolutely correct. You can read the front page of the proposal, and it says:'requires'. And then it is quite true that it is Enhedslisten's view that it should be ultimate, but there may be other perceptions of that. It is a motion for a resolution. This must, of course, be translated into a specific negotiating mandate in the Committee on European Affairs. What matters to us is what is on the front page; that is what is the resolution, namely that it is raised in the context of a possible future Treaty amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143340	Are there any follow-up questions? There isn't. The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143346	The comments on the proposal state that this resolution obliges the Danish Government to demand the abolition of the travel circus as a prerequisite for supporting any future Treaty changes. In other words, if this requirement is not met, there will be no support for other treaty changes. We can block this because unanimity is required. So whatever may come from fantastic Treaty amendments, we must block from Denmark if we do not get rid of the travel circus. Is that really the position of Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143423	Yes, that is the position of Enhedslisten. But our starting point is also that we have written the proposal as we have, that is to say what it says here on the front page, that we have a position on how it should be implemented. If the starting point is that we all agree that this proposal should be made in the context of a possible future Treaty amendment, then let us adopt it. Then it will be without our wish for how ultimate it should be. We are quite prepared to do so; then we have that view, but let it be. In our view, what we should be able to agree on is what is on the front page and which constitutes the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143502	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143505	What is on the front page is that we must make it a requirement. That is something we can do, because we can block because unanimity is required. That is the good thing about demands that are contrary to wishes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143519	But we agree that this is a motion for a resolution. We agree that, in a debate, we should not even be given a mandate in the Committee on European Affairs. I believe that a mandate must be given in the Folketing if it is a treaty amendment. I guess so, but I don't remember. But I think it is something that must be adopted in the Folketing, but at least in the European Committee. And whether you want to put a decisive emphasis on it or whether you want to put emphasis on it is something that a majority will decide at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143548	There are no more questions. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143602	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117143623	Thank you. The Enhedslisten proposers want to abolish EU party support for European political parties and foundations because the Enhedslisten believes that support is being given to parties that want the United States of Europe and because the Enhedslisten believes that support for European parties and foundations is being fraudulent. I would like to start by saying that the government does not support the proposal. It is no secret that both I and my party are in principle opposed to party support, whether it is party support in Denmark or in the European Union, but the political reality is that both in the Folketing and in the European Union there is a very broad majority in favour of maintaining party support, and as Foreign Minister, I will of course not oppose the ongoing improvement of the support system that now exists. In 2018, all the Danish Parliament's parties, with the exception of Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti, have twice supported the tightening of EU rules. This was done partly in order to increase transparency and control of party support and partly in order to counteract the manipulation of elections. Having said that, I would like to question very much the premises set out in the motion for a resolution by Mr Enhedslisten. I do not think the arguments are valid. The proposers mention, firstly, that the European political parties should have the aim of contributing to integration into the European Union and building up the United States of Europe, and, secondly, that all party support should be abolished because some have abused EU funds or are being investigated for abuse. The first claim that aid goes to parties that want to create the United States of Europe is fundamentally wrong. In fact, the Treaty of Lisbon does not have the wording of 1993 to which the proposers refer. There is no requirement for parties to work for the United States of Europe. On the other hand, it is a fact that European political parties representing widely differing views on the European Union are supported. This also applies to European political parties which would like to see the European Union closed down and which, among other things, would be the case. the Front National in France and Ukip in Britain as members. The rules certainly say that European political parties must respect the fundamental values of the European Union in order to be eligible for EU party support, but the fundamental values are not about being for or against integration into the European Union. I find it difficult to see how a demand for respect for, for example. democracy, freedom, the rule of law, equality and human rights should be a problem. And I know there are no European political parties to date that have not received support on the basis of fundamental values. When it comes to the proposers' second point about the misuse of funds, the government naturally fully agrees that the misuse of EU funds is absolutely unacceptable. Scams must be severely reduced, and therefore it is positive that a fine-meshed system has been created and that infringements can trigger significant sanctions. On the other hand, it is difficult to see the reasonableness of individual abuses leading to the loss of support for all. There are, in several cases, parties which have been ordered to repay funds, but in reality this is an expression of the fact that the system is already able to detect irregularities and serious abuse. I think that is a good thing. The government will not rule out that there may be room to improve the current rules of support for European political parties. We must continue to assess on an ongoing basis whether there is an opportunity to adjust the system and make it better, as we in the Danish Parliament have done several times and we did it twice in 2018. Finally, let me mention a different perspective on the matter. Whether we like it or not, unfortunately today there is a real risk that foreign powers will seek influence on European democracy. In this context, it is indeed a real advantage that EU rules require European parties to be transparent and transparent about the donations they receive. Furthermore, the EU system of party support means that donations from public authorities and persons from third countries are not permitted. The requirements of openness can also help prevent the manipulation of elections. Unfortunately, we should not underestimate the importance of this in these years. On the part of the government, therefore, we cannot support the proposal that European party support should be completely abolished, and on behalf of the government I call for the resolution of the Enhedslisten to be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144042	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144046	I would just like to ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can state whether, to the extent that there are accusations of fraud involving party funds, it is an independent judicial body or just an independent body that decides whether there is anything about it and whether there should be a charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144111	I think the questioner himself knows the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144115	Does the questioner have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144118	Yeah. I just want to know what the Secretary of State's answer is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144126	I can't change the facts. After all, there are systems which carry out the investigations that are being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144129	There's no more questioners. Thank you, Minister. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and the first is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144149	Thank you for the floor, and thank you again for the motion for a resolution. If this proposal basically intends to try to address the problems that have quite openly been both in the last few years, but also in the past, with the misuse of party support, then of course we share the intention of Enhedslisten to do something about it. We share the intention of Enhedslisten to have stricter control and, most of all, also have a supervisory authority, OLAF in particular, which actually also has the muscles to lift matters. However, we very much disagree with the Enhedslisten in the proposal that EU funding of EU parties and EU policy funds should be completely abolished. It is for the simple but also obvious reason that if we want a European public too, that there must be a European debate, that there must be party groups that must function and function more independently of contributions from private contributors, whether they are lobbyists or large companies or for that matter anything else, then public funding of this is necessary. I also believe that the Enhedslisten believes this as far as the funding of political parties is concerned, for example in the Folketing. This does not mean that we do not share the outrage over the fact that fraud is taking place, nor that fraud is being solved or prosecuted or, at least, concluded on the basis of the conjecture of fraud. We fully share this with the Enhedslisten, but we do not share the objective of abolishing funding for EU parties and political foundations. In fact, we also believe that it is important for there to be a common European public, and we believe that, if it is to be possible to raise many of the very big issues which Enhedslisten has presented in today's many other resolutions, whether it is the fight against tax havens or all sorts of other things, then it also requires you to have a pan-European discussion about tackling pan-European problems. This therefore requires a joint discussion, including joint party organisations, which are financed in a proper and transparent manner. That is why we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution here, although we fully share the outrage wherever the fraud may take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144433	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no questions. Next in line, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144457	Thank you. Sir. By way of exception, Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen was given some right points, because what is the purpose of these political parties? Yes, they serve the purpose of trying to create a European identity, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen called a European public. But I think that we should put a line under the test, because it is not possible to create something that does not have an organic root when it comes to identity or public opinion. There are no Danes, French, Greeks, or whatever, who really want to skip their own nationality, their own roots and ships into a European identity. That's why this project is doomed to failure. These European parties have neither the public interest nor the support of the public. I think that if Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen went out in the snow and asked how many citizens down at Kongens Nytorv, who knew S&D and knew what it stood for, then my claim would be that 99 out of 100 would not know, and the latter would be employed by the Social Democratic Party. It is as much support as the European parties have, and that is why I also believe that the Enhedslisten is absolutely right in the proposal put forward here by Enhedslisten. What has been achieved is to establish another tap from which to tap EU funds, and we really do not think that there is any reason to support this. Then the Foreign Minister has pointed out that these funds have been reformed, and we have indeed discussed this in the Committee on European Affairs. On the whole, I do not think that reform is really very positive, because if you look at the content of that reform, you can see that it is a question of more money being channelled to the larger parties and the smaller parties then having less money at their disposal. At least until now it is not all of us in here who are hoping for it, but some of us are hoping for it to change to the European Parliament elections in May, but as it is now, the large parties are, after all, parties which are overwhelmingly enthusiastic about the European Union and the organisations, parties, foundations from which the money has been taken are critical parties in some cases. We think that the reform that has been carried out is a step in the wrong direction. So we agree with the proposers that once and for all we should clean up this morass and abolish these funds, abolish support for these parties. I cannot help wondering why we actually have a set of rules now that we as a party can be members of several European parties at once. It also seems a tiny bit schizophrenic that one can simply ship oneself into several different organisations and then get indirect support from all these organisations at once. It does not seem right in any way, and it does not seem like a system that can be taken seriously in any way. The Danish People's Party believes that Enhedslisten hits the nail with this proposal, and we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144913	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117144925	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The unitary list wants to abolish EU party support for European political parties and foundations, and that is what they want, because they believe that support is being given today to parties that want a United States of Europe. In addition, there have been some cases in which parties and foundations have been fraudulent with the aid, and there are also parties and funds which are being investigated to see whether they have been fraudulent with the aid. The Enhedslisten therefore believes that there should be such a form of collective punishment, one might say, that is, even parties that have not been fraudulent, should be punished because of the fact that some have. I can already tell you that the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. Firstly, the claim that EU aid goes to parties which will form such a United States of Europe is wrong. EU aid also goes to parties that saw the EU shut down at any time. In other words, EU support goes to the parties that are now and with the views they now have. Secondly, I cannot quite see the reason why all parties should lose their support because a few have been fraudulent by means of funds. That would, of course, be tantamount to abolishing cash aid because some frauds with it. That would not be entirely reasonable either. There should be no doubt that the Left is firmly opposed to any form of fraud and, of course, there must be transparency and control over the funds allocated to both parties and foundations. There are a great many EU parties and political foundations around Europe and in Denmark, whose political work depends entirely on the funds they receive from the European Union. They should not be punished when they comply with the rules. So, of course, we share the view that we should not cheat on any kind of funding, but that we should punish all European political parties and foundations simply because a few have been fraudulent, we do not think that is fair. In these words, we intend to vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145122	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I do not see the Liberal Alliance rapporteur in the Chamber, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145133	Thank you. I am very pleased that we have a European democracy and I am very pleased that there are European parties. The alternative actually supported the fact that we should be able to vote on transnational lists for the European Parliament elections. I'm afraid it didn't happen. But we actually think it's a really, really good idea. We also think it is a very good idea that it is not only parties that can raise a lot of money from private donations that then have the strength to do the work that costs money when working with democracy and with party politics. We ourselves have helped to create a new transnational list for the forthcoming European Parliament elections, European Spring, without EU support at the moment, as no one is sitting in the European Parliament. After all, working with European democracy across borders and so on is a costly work. We believe, in fact, that if we want to strengthen the democratic voice, whether it is people who want to make the United States of Europe, as it says, or people who want to see the EU abandoned, who also receive support, then it is sensible to support the democratic voices that are there, and that is why I do not see the logic of this proposal at all. Because that will mean that it will all be privately funded. Is it then those who can raise the most money, and who thus also have the most channels to work that must run with power? Or is it actually healthy that we also make a joint financing of these things? This is what we think of the alternative, so we will not be supporting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145319	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145324	I'm just gonna ask sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, if he does not agree that before EU support was given to political parties, there were in fact some very viable political parties at European level. There was a Social Democrat who was a very viable liberal party with a liberal youth organisation. I think Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has been chairman of that organisation and there were conservative organisations. In other words, there have been viable European parties that were not just tied up with the European Union and the European Union project, but like for example. also brought people from Norway and Switzerland and other parts of Europe etc. - Sir... Rasmus Nordqvist doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145413	Yes, of course I can confirm that there have been organisations before. However, we are now dealing with a strengthened parliament in the European Union, which is why I think it is sensible that we also talk about European parties, EU parties, and that there is support for that work. I cannot understand why it is not felt that this work should be supported, but that it should be left to private donations. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145436	However, the work of the European Parliament and the parliamentary work of the European Parliament will continue to be supported. It's not really affected by this. After all, the political parties and the foundations are quite different. What is strange about this is that you have the political groups in the European Parliament which, of course, are supported, just as the political groups in the Folketing get their parliamentary work, including publishing it in their home country and meeting with those they want to meet with. But this is just a superstructure on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145514	That's interesting. Is it really to be understood that party support should be abolished, which is not given to the parliamentary groups in Denmark, i.e. the money you get per? mandate, for example? In fact, I think it makes sense for us to have a joint financing of these things when, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentioned, has a European public who is absolutely necessary when we also have a democracy together. So I really do not understand the proposal; I do not understand the intentions of what I think is quite wrong. If there is fraud, fraud, then we must take action against it. If the rules aren't good enough, let's face it. If control is not good enough, let us take action against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145548	The next question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145552	It's kind of funny. Because it seems to me that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist also suffers from the misunderstanding that a European public can be created. You can't do that. We cannot create something that is not rooted in reality, in the reality of the citizens, in the foundations of the citizens, in the history, culture, tradition and so on, and there is no breeding ground for a European public, no matter how much money you put in it. But I just have to get it right. 'Cause it sounds to me like sir. Rasmus Nordqvist really wants to put more money into this. Well, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist would like to spend more of the European citizens' tax money on supporting European parties and foundations, for as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says it is expensive to take as many flights as are apparently necessary to meet across Europe. Is that it, sir? Rasmus Nordqvist thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145652	First of all, I'd like to invite Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on a train to Berlin next week when I'm going to a meeting in European Spring. No, we have not, in fact, proposed that more money should be spent, but we do believe that this is necessary, and we also believe that there is a European public, and that is why there is also a need to strengthen the European political parties working in European democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145711	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145714	Yeah, it's possible that there's it in that spring movement, like Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has taken the lead. I hope that the Spring Movement will not go there in the same way as it did in the Arab Spring. With all due respect, sir, I really hope you're all right. Rasmus Nordqvist. But I simply do not understand why we believe that we can set up something that is not there, in other words by supporting one or more political parties or foundations. How is it, sir? Rasmus Nordqvist sees that it could create a European public? I mean, where's the causal link between these two things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145755	The causal link is that we have a common European democracy, among other things. with the elections to the European Parliament, and if we are going to work with it, it costs money, and I think it makes sense that we spend Community money on that and that it is not only the parties that can raise as many private donations as possible that should be able to create that work. It is precisely that which supports the European public, which we have so much disagreement about whether there is or does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145821	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. I do not see the radical rapporteur in the Chamber, nor the SF's, so that is why we have come to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117145833	Thank you. And thank you for the motion for a resolution. With this proposal, the Enhedslisten wants to abolish party support for European parties and foundations. Every year, Enhedslisten receives millions of DKK in public party support here in Denmark, and I think that is very good and very good, because it helps to strengthen our democracy in Denmark and to have a well-functioning democracy costs money. The same applies to a European democracy. I must also point out, as others have said on the floor here, that I do not believe that the premise of this proposal is entirely valid. Firstly, there should be parties set up in the world to build a United States of Europe. I do not quite see where they come from. The EU's uncritical parties are not disadvantaged; they receive exactly the same proportion as the EU-positive parties do. The only requirement, as the Minister has also mentioned, is that the fundamental values of the European Union should be respected. Secondly, I do not think we should buy the premise that all party subsidies should be abolished because a few have abused EU funds. In other words, the argument should be that the aid must be removed from everyone, because there are a few who cannot manage to stick to the rules. With that logic, we would also have to abolish a large number of different social benefits here in Denmark. For example, we should abolish the possibility of having su for non-residents because a few cheat on it. In the Conservative People's Party, we are therefore opposed to such a form of collective punishment. If anyone has cheated, it must of course have consequences for them, but we do not think that everyone else who follows the rules should suffer. In the motion for a resolution, the Enhedslisten refers to Meld and Feld. OLAF is currently in the process of carrying out an investigation; it is therefore an investigation within the European Union, and I think that is precisely evidence of the fact that cheating on subsidies is being taken seriously in the European Union. And there must be control of party support. The party support is used, among other things, for publications and information, and the parties will have to spend money on that regardless. The consequence of Enhedslisten's proposal, as has also been mentioned before, must therefore be that there will be much more focus on catching up on private funding, and I am rather surprised that the very Enhedslisten will come up with a proposal that will mean that it is private contributions that will have a much greater value. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150129	Thank you. There is a question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150132	I just wanted to know if the Conservative People's Party has ever said no to private donations, referring to party support from the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150143-2	I do not know the history of the party completely in relation to it, but we are not at first sight opposed to being able to support it privately. We just do not think that this should be crucial, so there are parties that are suddenly motivated only to conduct policies in order to be able to make private contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150201	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150211	Although some may have tried to produce it a little differently, the Enhedslisten is in fact in favour of European parties and we are in favour of European cooperation. We are even in favour of a European public, although I share the view that this is not something that can be created from above. It's something that can be created from below. We do, but I would like to question whether the party support schemes that have been made contribute to this and, in particular, make a positive contribution to it. In fact, I am not sure about that, just as I am not sure that the 40% increase in support for political parties in the Folketing recently contributed positively to the work of the parties in making things more serious and in a more thorough way. When we look at the European parties, what we are talking about is not support for parliamentary work. It is there and it will continue. We are talking about parties that live a partially separate life from Parliament and we are talking about foundations that live an even more separate life from Parliament. In my opinion, the fact that money has entered that system has not led to more efforts being made to ally with the citizens. I would like to say that I believe that it has done so, that we have moved further away from the citizens. It may be that there are sometimes some major international campaigns. European Voice contains great articles from the liberal party in Europe and such things, but otherwise I would say that when you see how the parties have generally spent that money, you can see a change in the way the parties operate, for example. in relation to where you hold your conferences, which hotels you use, the standard when you meet, the class you fly on in the planes, etc. That is quite clear. Perhaps I would like people to be more responsible for their own money. This is not an alternative to trying to get money from the citizens. There's something called crowdfunding. After all, the opportunities to raise money today are better than ever by means of modern technology. For example, the American election campaign showed this. But how many European parties have tried to do so? Does anyone know about this? We can take the European Conservative Party, the European Liberal Party, the European Social Democracy or any of the other parties. Are any of them trying to reach out to European citizens and to conduct crowdfunding operations because it was important to build political parties? No, you haven't. And the reason why this has not been done is that it has not been necessary because you get so much through compulsory contributions through the European Union. We think that this kind of activity should be paid for by people themselves. Instead, you have gone the opposite way, which has led to this extravagant way of making policy. I would therefore like to say that there are certainly exceptions, but this is a general picture which I believe has been observed and a general picture which also exists in the context of the funds, where it is at least very difficult to see when fraud is committed. That's one of them. Because of the ways in which we try to bring cases against organisations or against these parties, etc., which have committed fraud. It's a purely political court. In my opinion, it is deeply worrying that we have large sums of money paid out to parties, and then it is for the parties themselves to decide between themselves whether to prosecute someone for fraud. This usually means that there is never an indictment against the large majority around the middle, whereas charges are being made against those who do not belong to the large majority. This is not an excuse for those who are on the wings when they are being accused, because fraud and fraud are also taking place there. Unfortunately, it has to be said that the charges are not raised in the number of cases they should. I would like to say something to our Secretary of State. The Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has been to the European Parliament, even during that period, I think. All the rules had not been implemented and there has been a much greater wealth of money, but the Foreign Minister himself has seen how money was widely abused. Money was abused in the sense that you knew people who had a printery, and then you ordered 50,000 copies and got 10,000, but paid for 50,000, and the rest of the money was stuck in your pocket. It could be papers, it could be glass, it could be cups, it could be flags, it could be pens, it could be anything. This kind of thing could be heard everywhere, and the problem is, in relation to how much you have heard, that there is part of what has been reported, but that it is very little of what has gone further, because it has been a political decision that made whether things should go further. I would therefore like to say that, as I said, we are very much in favour of European parties. We are very much in favour of an effort being made to involve European citizens. We do not think that the way to give party support with a round hand is the right way to do it, and that is why we think that the barely 400 million. kr., which can be saved in that account, can be a good place to start. Then it may also be that the EU budget does not have to end at 1.0001 per cent. of bni, but actually can come down to 1%.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150844	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150847	First of all, I'd like to invite Mr. Søren Søndergaard to provide support for the crowdfunding campaign that European Spring is running, as this is exactly the way we are trying to finance. But what I really wanted to ask is this dilemma between how money is being provided to democratic parties and who has a voice. Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that there should be rules on who to get money from, and how much money you can get, or how is it, sir. Søren Søndergaard sees an economy built up in parties if there is not to be any public support at all and that it should not just be those with the richest friends in the business world who then get all the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117150929	Well, we can't change it. As long as we have a tax system that so favours the richest and tax havens and tax holes and anything, we cannot change the fact that some of the money will be channelled to the political forces that defend it. This money won't change that either. I really thought it was interesting to hear Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist well and respectfully tell about how European Spring is trying to raise its money, namely through a crowdfunding campaign. And what's the interesting thing about European Spring? It is that they do not get a penny from the European Parliament because they have no representatives there. Let us come back in five years, when European Spring actually has some representatives, and let us see what has happened. I hope that European Spring will be an honourable exception, but I would just like to say in relation to the development that I can see just so as not to talk about others in the part of the political spectrum that I belong to, that there is going to be a replacement for this type of money in order to try to involve citizens rather than a means of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151042	I can follow the rapporteur so far that we may have to look at how the rules are built up in relation to funding, but what this proposal says is that it all has to go away. And there is my question as well: does the rapporteur not think that the way in which the campaign is being conducted today and the way in which we can get attention on political messages also require money, and therefore it favours those who have most money, and that is what is also being tried to offset with public support for the parties? It is precisely the case that there can also be work at an equally high level among parties that do not have such large private donations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151117	It always has. It has always taken political means to conduct political campaigns. It did so when it came to advertising in the newspapers, and it does so today, where social media and the Internet can be used to a greater extent. There has always been that difference and I do not believe that we are abolishing that difference by simply pumping money into the political system in general. We fully agree, as we have also said in the Folketing, that we will be very much in favour of proper conditions for Members of Parliament. It must also be in the European Parliament so that they can do their political work and so on, but that it should be extended to these gigantic sums to political parties and foundations, which are not, by the way, a very Danish invention, but all right, let it lie, we are very opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151204	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151218	The debate is open. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Nick Hækkerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151244	Thank you. The present draft parliamentary resolution concerns the demarcation of the maritime area between Denmark and Poland in the Baltic Sea. This is something that Denmark and Poland have been negotiating more or less intensively since the 1970s, and the disagreement has been about an area of approx. 3,600 km2. However, it is also worth including. Now agreement has been reached, even for a solution where Denmark gets approx. 80% of the discussed area, and the Poles then get the last 20%. Of course, that raises the question: how can it be that the Poles have suddenly become such a compromise-seeker and even so? When the agreement falls into place, it is linked to the new gas pipeline called Baltic Pipe, which is to ensure that gas from Norway can come down and in over Denmark and down to Poland. This is good for Poland, because it offers the opportunity to replace coal with natural gas, and it is an important step towards Poland being able to become energy independent from Russia. It is also good geopolitical for Denmark and the rest of Europe, because such a wire can help to reduce our dependence on Russian gas. Then it is the case that the construction of this pipeline requires that we agree on the maritime border, that is, in whose area the pipeline lies. So that's what's happening with the deal. In our view, there are no objections to the agreement that has been reached. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151438	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151445	Thank you. After all, it is not every day that we in the Danish Parliament deal with legislative proposals on Denmark's territories. That's what we're gonna say. The case seems to be quite straightforward. There have been discussions since the 1970s about the precise demarcation of the Baltic Sea area between Poland and Denmark. Diplomacy has played its part, various ministers have probably supported the process along the way, and now it suggests that both Denmark and Poland have clarified the final division of approximately 3,600 km 2 The distribution by 80%. I would like to say that the disputed area of Denmark seems to be extremely reasonable. However, in the preparation of this matter, I wondered a little about the timing, and I understand that others have also done so. Why has this dispute been resolved right now? My first thought was whether there was a connection with the Nordstream 1 and Nordstream 2 project, and what would possibly be the consequence for Denmark's position in that case if the Folketing now adopts the B69? I have then come to understand that this is instead about the Baltic Pipe project, where a gas pipeline is established from Norway through Denmark and to Poland. The Danish People's Party supports the Baltic Pipe project, but if it is the momentum of the project, which is the direct cause of B69, I think it should have been disclosed directly in the accompanying material of the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151622	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Michael Aastrup Jensen as rapporteur for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151632	Thank you for that, President. Denmark's Liberal Party can be in favour of Denmark becoming larger. It is always wonderful when we have the opportunity, not least in peaceful circumstances. As both my esteemed colleague from the Danish People's Party and my esteemed colleague from the Social Democratic Party have mentioned, the direct reason is, of course, the debate on Baltic Pipe, which we on the Left also support 100%. Baltic Pipe can help to ensure that we can actually get a more stable flow of energy into, we must say the mainland of Europe, and thus indirectly have consequences for the discussion we have on any other projects that go further from the east. So all in all, we are really, really happy, and I would actually like to take the opportunity to take this opportunity to praise both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because I think it is actually an excellent piece of diplomatic work that has been done here. I think it was sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, who mentioned this: 80%. of the area we actually discussed and negotiated is now secured to the Danish side. I think that's what they call an excellent result in Jutland. So we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151753	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117151803	Thank you. As a starting point, I think it is quite reasonable to have a clear explanation of where the country's border is going. We have also been trying to get this agreement in place since the 1970s, so it makes good sense to reach an agreement which clearly determines the limits. It also follows from the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea that this should be done. So that makes sense. But I have to say that I also think that when you look at the context of it, and there's nothing about that in the motion for a resolution that is both about making this Baltic Pipe agreement or this pipeline work and about what it can have with consequences in relation to, and we don't know yet, the construction of a possible Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2, at least gives rise to some discussions that connect to it. I think it is important to say that the position of Enhedslisten is, of course, that we do not think that we should make ourselves dependent on energy and gas from Russia and Poland and Germany. We think it is more important that we invest in developing the production of renewable energy. And there are a number of other particularly political problems associated with Nord Stream, if relevant. So when the Foreign Minister comes on, I would like us to have a little more insight into what the context here is both for Baltic Pipe and what it might look like in relation to the upcoming negotiations on this Nord Stream. How does it relate to the fact that this deal falls into place?
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152004	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152010	Thank you. Hastværk is a truck, and we have lived up to that in Denmark by spending 40 years reaching this agreement. The negotiations began when Anker Jørgensen was Prime Minister of Denmark, and I do not know how many people can remember at the moment what the political leader was called in Poland at this time. We support the motion for a resolution, of course; it is a clear red-and-white victory. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152051	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152104	It's one of these cases where sometimes it's hard to get a number. 6 and to say something gifted, but I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like us to praise him. A solution has been found for something that has been discussed for a long time, and it is a good thing that a solution has been found with our friends and neighbours south of the border. So good work, sir. Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152127	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152137	The Radical Left, Denmark's Social Liberal Party, would like to thank you for the truly excellent work done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs here. When you are as fond of Denmark as we are, you will also be happy about it when Denmark gets bigger. We support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152157	Thank you to the Radicals. I do not see the SF's rapporteur in the Chamber, and that is why we have come to Mr SF's report. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152207	Anyway, I am dropping my speech and I would also like to commend the Secretary of State for a fine compromise with Poland. That is a great result, and I just want to thank you for the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152223	Thank you to the Conservatives. And then we have come to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has received so much praise.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152232	Yes, today is truly a day of celebration. Once we said what outwards are lost must be won inwards. Today we win so outwardly, it must be said. It is not every day that you are allowed to go up and thank the Danish Parliament for supporting Denmark becoming larger. I think we have made a very, very good deal, and I will immediately forward the cadeau as others have done to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the amazing diplomatic work that has been done. Baltic Pipe has been pointed out, and it is, of course, fair enough to draw that part into it. I certainly believe that it can be said in this way that it has been a lever to achieve the result that has been achieved. And under no circumstances do I see anything unorthodox in that. This is an ordinary negotiation that has taken place. It has spanned a great many years, and it is a pleasure and an honour to be the one who has the Foreign Minister's chair at the time when it finally succeeds in putting it into place. It has been asked briefly whether it has anything to do with Nord Stream 2 and there is the answer: No, it is a completely different matter. And, by the way, it is not a debate that is going on. There have been the applications that have been made in relation to it and they are being examined elsewhere. It is not something that has been put on the government's table at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152358	Thank you. And there are brief remarks. First question, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152402	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. To return to the remarks I made in my own rapporteur's speech and, as I heard Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is not possible to see anywhere that this motion for a resolution today stems from the Baltic Pipe project. And would the Minister not agree that it would not have done anything perhaps just to describe that this is actually what influences this matter? One might be in the situation that some people were actually glowingly opposed to the Baltic Pipe project and were thus deceived by this case, which does not mention Baltic Pipe in a word.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152437	I do not know, so I have just answered the question and said that I do not think it can be denied that it has been a lever in achieving that result. One could not foresee this in Anker Jørgensen's time, that is, that it could become a lever in relation to achieving that result. There has been a negotiation, and from both sides arguments have been made back and forth, and then one party can become what it is called soft in the codes, and the other party can also be, and eventually one finds each other. That is what it is and it is not my job, I think, as Foreign Minister, to interpret what has been done by Poland. I guess you'd have to ask the Poles more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152525	So that was a slightly different answer than I had hoped for. Let me just say that I have at least the expectation that when you are dealing with a legislative proposal, it is illuminated at all ends and edges and that it has a direct relationship up to the Baltic Pipe project is quite fine. That would just have been nice to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152544-2	That view is noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152549	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152549-2	Thank you for your statement, too. Well, I'm aware that it doesn't have a connection like that now with Nord Stream 2. But if it is not understood correctly, it can be said that if, if, in the event, it ends up with us rejecting the location of Nord Stream 2, then it will open up some new possibilities for some other locations of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, which was not there earlier when you worked on Nord Stream 1 about 10 years ago? At that time it was, as it were, rejected because that limit was unclear and now something new is to be opened up. I mean, it's just to get a quick answer, maybe we can get a written answer back... a better overview of what this deal is actually going to mean for any future arrangements around Nord Stream. I could be interested in that. It would be quite fair if the Minister could not straighten all that out now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152652	In fact, I think it is true, as the questioner concludes, that it is more suitable for a written question, so that a question is asked which is precise and then you can get a slightly more precise answer. It's a little too unclear what's being asked about in this way, I think. And that is not what is on today's agenda either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152708	I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that this agreement can also have consequences for the location of a Russian pipeline, i.e. the gas pipeline, that it can have an impact on how Nord Stream 2 can be placed in other ways than what is planned here. Isn't that correct? At least there's a lot of...
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152734	That is why I think the right thing to do is to ask a specific question. Then I'll be happy to answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152739	There are no more questions. Thank you to the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190117152754	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 18 January 2019 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
