ParlaMint-DK_20190226130025	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130032	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130040	Thank you. It's the last question hour before spring, which according to the calendar starts on March 1st, and I think many people are looking forward to it this spring, where the buds pop out on the trees and where there will be more bright hours. This really matches the feeling that you can feel, because there is a lot to be enjoyed: employment is higher than ever; fewer are on cash benefits and daily allowances; the number of people on public support is the lowest we have seen for more than 30 years; many young people take an education; more sick survive cancer; the asylum number is the lowest we have seen for 10 years; and on a day of good wind wind wind wind turbines cover our entire electricity consumption. So it goes well in Denmark, it goes quite well in Denmark. Therefore, we also have the opportunity to build better and stronger and more long-lasting solutions for Denmark, because although I am now drawing up a picture that much is going well, there is, of course, still room for improvement. Should one be in doubt, one can only see the coverage of elderly care in recent days in certain municipalities. This requires that we stick to the course that has brought Denmark back on track, because things are connected. This also applies to foreign policy. When the government took over responsibility again almost four years ago, we were left behind with the consequences of a series of relaxations in foreign policy created by a government which disagreed on the course both with itself and with its parliamentary basis. Shortly after that, Europe's borders, refugees and migrants broke up the highway, and the government has acted on it. Over the last two years, we have seen the lowest number of asylum seekers in a decade, which has freed up billions of dollars for both investments in the area, but also for Danish welfare money we wouldn't have had if we hadn't changed the course. This change of course is a change of course in Europe, where Denmark's line has gained more and more support, but it is also a change of course at home, because the low number of asylums can be largely attributed to the government's tightening up. We have left what was the situation when I became Prime Minister last time we were no. 5 in Europe for the number of asylum seekers per year. resident, to be no. 16. From No. 5 to No 16. And this can be attributed to the change that has taken place in Danish immigration policy • tightenings, which we introduced in cooperation with the Danish People's Party as a response to the previous government's many relaxations. What does that mean? Yes, that means that if Denmark had continued to be in a fifth place, as was done, then Mrs Mette Frederiksen and Mr Frederiksen. Morten Bødskov and other good people here had government responsibilities, we would have received more than twice as many asylum seekers over the last four years more than twice as many asylum seekers as we have received with the policy that has now been pursued. That is why I also welcome the fact that this government has created peace and security on Danish foreign policy in good cooperation with the Danish People's Party, because the past shows what a divided government with a divided parliamentary basis can lead to in this area. Last Thursday, the Danish Parliament decided that Danish foreign policy should in future have a greater focus on temporaryity. Children and adults who have a legitimate need for protection must of course have shelter in Denmark, of course they must, but it must be a temporary shelter and not an invitation to move in permanently. Refugees must return home when conditions allow, help to build up their country of origin. There is also a moral obligation to do so. That's the way you look at things in the world. Yesterday I had a meeting with the President of Somalia, who himself has been in the United States for a very, very long time and has now returned home and has taken on a political responsibility, and so his signal was also a wish that the Somalis who have built up competences in Europe and elsewhere should go home and help build the country. While you are here, you must of course contribute, work, support yourself and yours, and that is why I am also pleased that yesterday we also agreed with the social partners to extend basic integration training, which among other things. allow refugees, family members, to be trained in the labour market so that they can support themselves, and which is part of the reason why today, if measured up to the time before this government, we have almost twice as many, proportionate, self-supporting people after three years. So this government is the guarantor of a firm policy on foreigners, a policy which is absolutely necessary in a troubled world and which must not be called into question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130610	Thank you. Then we move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time. Two follow-up questions follow, each with one minute's speaking time for the questioner and the Prime Minister. We start with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130632	Today I will try to reach about three different I recently visited the Trauma Center at the Rigshospitalet. This is where you will be brought, if you have been seriously injured. For example, if you are incinerated, you will be flown to the Kingdom Hospital from all over the country. I am shown around by a couple of talented nurses and a porter, and I say with such a little too much self-evidentness, because it is the Traume Centre at the Rigshospitalet, that here they must have enough staff, that there must be enough colleagues at work. The three shake their heads; the answer was no, there are not enough colleagues. That is the picture that I see everywhere in our health services or at least in most places: that employees run fast. In many places they run too fast, and patients and care suffer. Two years ago it was the head of the Kingdom Hospital who resigned in protest, and a short time ago it was another head of clinic at the Rigshospitalet, Jakob Trier Møller, who resigned in protest against the green harvesting savings. He was in charge of approx. 250 doctors and nurses and other health professionals, and in this context he said quite precisely how the savings are going to affect patients: there are fewer employees at work who are fewer able to take care of them when they get to surgery, and in particular there are fewer to look after them. In other words, the economy of health care is not good enough, and it will not be so with the government's proposals for health reform, on the contrary. There's no new money. On the other hand, we know that health costs are going to rise. By 2025 they will increase by about 2 billion. kr. Every year, because there are more older people, and that is why we must automatically spend more money on our health care. We want to give priority to this and we see it as a minimum. The money's gotta keep up when you get older. But the government is only proposing a growth in the public economy of 1.5 billion. kr. In other words, when we talk about health, which is why the calculation is quite simple: the government's policy will mean that there will be cuts in health by 2025, and that is why I have a very specific question for the Prime Minister, namely whether the Prime Minister will not confirm that in the government's economic policy there is really no money for patients to have the health care they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226130907	It may well be that it is a very simple calculation which Mrs Mette Frederiksen has put forward for herself, but that is probably also what characterises the socialist calculations: that they are such on the back of a napkin and where the only figures included in a financial bill are side numbers. I would like to mention two things: when it is said that there is no new money in the government's proposal, then it is positively wrong. That is positively wrong. In other words, the government has put forward a proposal which we are currently negotiating with the Danish People's Party, the alternative, and I think the Radicals are also sticking to the negotiations, which are proposing the creation of a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr. kr., which has not been used for the purpose before, which must be invested in close health services, more health houses, more ambulance services. That is why the scaremongering which I can see is the expression of pure propaganda. That was for example. in Question Time last week, it was probably, otherwise it may not be until tomorrow, when the Minister for Health has to guarantee one and the other and the third medical ambulance around the country. The government has said standstill on everything that's out there. The tools that are there must be there, and then there must be more extras with extra money. So that's one thing. The second point is that, regardless of what a consumption objective the government has in relation to the whole of the public economy, the government has shown an historic will to give priority to health. I would just remind you that, when I became Prime Minister, we started to increase the appropriations for health care by 0.5 billion. kr. more than in Mrs Mette Frederiksen's government proposal, i.e. 1.5 billion. kr. more than it would have had if the government in which Mrs Mette Frederiksen was sitting had continued, and since then we have added more: 6 billion. kr. All in all. Should I reply briefly to whether I have the willingness to pay and the ability to continue investing in the health care system, which since I became Minister of Health for the first time, has had a real growth rate of 40%. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131106	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131108	But that's not the question I asked. I asked the question whether there is enough money in the government's economic policy to cover all the costs. The answer to that is no, and the Prime Minister could have just said so. I did not get an answer to the question, and that is why we are trying another question and another theme. We in the Social Democratic Party have proposed the introduction of a right to a former retirement pension for Danish employees who have been longest in the labour market and who have been worn out by going to work. This is certainly not an easy task. There is a lot of technology we need to have in place, but I would like to say, as a completely necessary and fair solution, that those who have literally built up this country and who have been run down by going to work must be able to retire early, not on a senior early retirement pension or on another scheme, but on a former retirement pension, so that a right is introduced so that worn-out Danish employees can retire earlier on a retirement pension. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simple: will the Prime Minister help to introduce a right for worn-out Danish employees to be able to retire earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131224	Thank you. Can't I just start by arresting that I shouldn't have answered? I fully answered the question that was asked. I may not have answered what was intended, but I replied in accordance with the truth. I mean, 6 billion. kr., which had not been used for the purpose before, to raise close health offers, 6 billion. kr. extra into operation in this parliamentary term until now, a real growth of 40% since I became Minister of Health for the first time, and a clear forward-looking willingness to pay. This government has more money for health than the Social Democratic Party, because we also have the courage to propose the structural changes that are making us free some money that is now being spent on something else that can be used for health houses, for emergency services, for the upgrading of staff, for 2 000 more nurses, for a boost in the number of sosu assistants, for the dimensioning up of medical training, and then we have as much money as Mrs Mette Frederiksen has, in relation to a room for manoeuvre that needs to be made available. And if you look at our historical record, I think it has to be said that the times we have been responsible for health care, we have also had the willingness to pay. In relation to the second question...
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131332	Yeah, I'm sure it'll come in the next round. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131333	It is, of course, in many ways clever to repeat what has already been said and then not answer the question. The Prime Minister is now in need of time, because there is also a third question to which I would like an answer. The question I did not get an answer to before, namely whether to introduce a right to an early retirement pension, can only be said 'yes' or 'no' to. Well, then we've settled it. I would also like to focus on a subject which, I believe, is very much at heart: the problem of Syrians, who are people who have left not only Denmark and our democracy, but who are also traitors in my view and who, of course, are not going back to Denmark. I do not want them to go back to Europe either. On the contrary, I think we should do everything we can to keep them out of our country. That is why I also believe that they should be prosecuted and served their sentences in those societies where their crimes are monstrous. There are no simple solutions to this, of course, but we are not only in this situation at the moment that a number of other countries, particularly Western Europe, also have the problem of Syrians. That is why a question to the government is: has enough been done to find a common European response to prevent these people from coming back to Denmark? Could you, for example, do that? are inspired by the solutions used in the past in relation to piracy off the Somali coast?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131504-2	Thank you. On the other hand, I can answer that very briefly, because I would also like to round the second question and say: no, I do not think enough has been done. I fully agree that it makes very good sense for the international community to discuss with itself and each other how we can deal with this. Having said that, one cannot rule out in advance that some of these people are under lock and key, some are at large around the globe of their own operation finding their way back to our border. I also regard them as traitors, and to the extent that they find our limit, I find that in the case of pensions, I would say that it is now being asked whether there should be a right for the worn out. I can say yes to that. In other words, if you are worn out, you must have a right to be able to stop and step out of the labour market. What is then the challenge here and there is a lack of Mrs Mette Frederiksen to give some answers is that you want to do this collectively in some way and define some groups where you say that they as a group are potentially worn out, and then they as a group should be right, while some other groups should not have it. In order to be able to answer properly whether this is a good idea, we need to learn a little more about what this is all about. That's the 3 billion. kr., who is governing, so not many get this right to quit 3 years before. It's not. So you have to go out and explain how it can be that if you are an educator, you have no right, if you are worn out, to resign, but if you are in one or another industry, then you have. It is, of course, a dispute with the universal welfare model, and I think that contains some problems. So it's hard to get smart on that model: does the money Passe, and who is it really you're thinking about? However, if I am asked whether, as a person, you should have a right to leave the labour market, if you are worn out, the answer is that you should of course have it. And it has to be on proper terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131702	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131709	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction. I would like to follow up on this question about Syrian warriors or foreign fighters, jihadists or what these people who have done some of the most horrible things, some of the hardest-boiled crime, are being called. After all, the Foreign Minister has also been on the line, and now I know that perhaps the Prime Minister is currently of the opinion that some of the ministers are going to tweet or look up things on Facebook a little quickly, so something has to be withdrawn. But here it may be worth noting that, compared to this, the Foreign Minister wrote about taking jihadists or foreign fighters, Syrians back to Denmark: No, and not thank you, just no. They have failed everything Denmark stands for. In fact, I think that is quite correct. I think that a lot of Danes will find it hard to understand that some people who have gone down there and who have not just failed Denmark, but have really fought against Denmark, have to go back to Denmark and into our welfare society. We know what will happen if they return to Denmark. Then the Danish state is ready with appointed lawyers and the like, because legal certainty really has to be taken care of in a safe manner. Doubt haunts many as to whether or not they will ever be punished for the atrocities they have actually committed. Because can the burden of proof be lifted to an extent by a Danish court, so that these people are punished for what they have done? That is why I really think it is extremely important that we have a discussion here in the Danish Parliament on how to ensure that these people are held accountable for the atrocities they have done. Is it not true that this can only happen if a model is found to be able to prosecute locally in the vicinity of the area where they have also committed the atrocity? And then you have to find the model for it. But then it starts with that they don't come to Denmark; then it starts with that we keep them from life, while then we work with other countries to find a model for them to be prosecuted locally. I really would like to hear the Prime Minister's in-depth thoughts on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131926	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226131927	Thank you. Unfortunately, it is very rare that there is something, at least in my life, which is very simple and very black and white. This is the only time you could flirt with the idea that it would be more fun to be in opposition, because then it all became a little simpler. After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed an opinion with which I agree. In other words, people who have betrayed Denmark, who have moved in order to fight the cause of the caliphate and thus fight against everything we stand for, and only want to hurt us, we have no ambition to look at our latitudes again. That's an attitude. Then there's the challenge that these people come in a little in different forms. There are some who are nationals from the birth of, that is, born in Denmark; there are some who have become Danish citizens and also have a different nationality. So it's kind of a mixed group. And there it is just that if you are a Danish citizen and return to Denmark, there is no way to say: you cannot. And then it has to be that we punish people. Having said that, I agree with you, but it is not something that Denmark can do alone that it would be good if the international community could develop a method of prosecuting these people, even closer to their crime scene. For there is also something about the position of proof, which is in fact indicated in the way that is being asked. It is not that simple either, because we have that line with Syria, and I think we should be wary that we do not recognise the Assad regime, and that is why it has its limit, at least, whether we are able to build such a war tribunal on Syrian soil under the regime we currently have. Where does that take me? That brings me to what I actually said to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, namely that the international possibilities in this matter have not been exhausted and that it must also be a task for the Foreign Ministers of Europe to try to unfold this further.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132129	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132131	Thank you. It is good that it is being explored further, but it starts with these people not coming to Denmark if we can avoid it at all. Otherwise, we risk that while talking, these people will start flowing back to Denmark. I agree that they come in different shades, in relation to whether they have been granted citizenship in this Parliament because there has been a majority for quite a lot of citizenship of foreigners over the ages or whether it is people who have citizenship from birth. But that does not cover anything else than the fact that if a person commits drug crime in Asian countries, where it is known that the punishment for drug crime is harsh, we also have a respect for the fact that the country where the person commits the crime is prosecuting him, even if he is a Dane. So it is here: these people must be prosecuted locally. I have to say that I do not think we should have too fine feelings about how we make it work. These people have not shown fine sensations for Denmark and Danish values on the contrary. And in the interviews that have been made around with some of these alien warriors, it's also hard to find people who are so repentant. On the contrary, journalists can find one example after another of people actually saying that they really think what they did was okay and that they would do the same on many leads and edges. It is awful to look at, and it is terrible to think that those people will then, if necessary, get to Denmark before we have figured out how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132301	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132302	Well, I don't have such a great feeling. I have a feeling that the country's constitution and the international commitments that we have entered into will be respected. Then I have a feeling that we must also take care of our security, and that is why it becomes a little bit more complex. I basically agree that if an international solution could be developed to prosecute people for crimes they had committed close to the crime scene, it would be much preferable. When this gets a little complicated I know the easy answers, and I could also just choose to give them, but I think it's my job to maintain full seriousness in this, because there will also be some of those who are out there who will not be able to be judged locally either, because you will not be able to lift the burden of proof that they have committed a genuine war crime and will therefore possibly be acquitted and then be able to go home. So this is more complex than that. Of course, the issue of our security is that we have a keen eye on what kind of group it is, and I can guarantee that we do. We take this extremely seriously. We have a group of authorities across different resorts, also with a range that I will not be able to give a detailed insight into here in the Parliament, in order to have as close an overview as possible of what kind of people we are talking about, how many they are, who they are and what kind of risk they might pose. So yes, it's fine to develop something international, but we also have to assume the national responsibility, that we have an eye on these people, and that also means having an eye on those people who may, of their own motion, defile home to Denmark. We have seen that, and we have also seen people who have entered the country and who have been prosecuted and who have had their citizenship taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132502	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132503	I just want to say that it is very serious to discuss how we can ensure that some of the most horrible people who have been fighting against both our values and our country, what we stand for, are prosecuted locally and do not come to Denmark and drive freewheels and get back into the Danish welfare community. We will come back to it, and we will make sure that we here in the Folketing come back to this subject. What I would also like to ask the Prime Minister is quite different, and I just have to do so, because there was a report on the conditions of the elderly. The Prime Minister was talking about this at the beginning of the Question Time. I just want to ask the Prime Minister if he is in favour of it showing that, even if we have increased resources for the elderly in the last few years, we are not in the target yet; there is more to be done in the years to come. The study shows that, while taking into account the impact we can see with healthy ageing, which we often discuss, and rehabilitation, the proportion of weak elderly people receiving home help for cleaning and other practical tasks is halved in the period 2007-2017, and even with the measures we have taken over the last few years with more than 1.5 billion. kr. We have discussions with the municipalities that they do not always use the money for what they need to do. But then, as we can see from the report, we also need to increase our efforts in the area of the elderly in the coming years. And I just want the Prime Minister to confirm that we're looking at the same thing and that's the lead we're working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132628-2	Can't I just say that I can be serious without somebody else being ridiculous? I think you could also see that I was looking for the words. Well, the nuances I think were the word I was looking for. In relation to the second question: I agree very much with that. We've rebuilt this area. We have done this after a government which some may remember agreed lower service frameworks with the municipalities, i.e. less money agreed with the municipalities to be spent on municipal services. On top of that came a government which supported the Danish People's Party and also at the request of the Danish People's Party in several rounds has lifted the funding for the municipalities and part of the targeted elderly area. Is that good enough? No, it's not. And I think this kind of has two indications... one is that we have to have a willingness to pay in the future, in other words in relation to when we make municipal agreements, and the other is about what happens in the municipalities. For some of the things we see here are municipalities, which have received quite large amounts of money from the dignity billionaires and other things, which have apparently not been used for that purpose. And this isn't about our willingness to pay. After all, it is a question of some sort of governance that is not in order here. I get offended when I can see on TV older people who can't get cleaned up more than five weeks apart. And that cannot hold us responsible for that, and so do the municipalities. I don't think we can lift it alone. I mean, we also have to talk to the municipalities about: should this be controlled tighter? Should the elderly have some rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132755	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226132805	Yes, I think the elderly should have some rights. If anyone has to answer that question, I would like to do so. However, my question to the Prime Minister will be about the citizens' proposal that we will be dealing with later today, which is about a climate law. There are more than 65,000 people who, in a very short time, have even signed a citizens' proposal for a more binding Danish climate legislation. In addition to the many thousands of people, there are even 11 green organisations behind that citizens' proposal. Those organizations together have over a quarter of a million members. So we are talking about a citizens' proposal with solid support, I think we can say. The point of this citizen's proposal is to try to impose binding national objectives on us in this Parliament, that we constantly follow up and adjust it if we do not achieve the milestones and that the ongoing follow-ups are also carried out by the independent Climate Council. It is so insanely important to talk about such a climate law, because if we do not act in time, and I know that the Prime Minister, in fact, on paper, agrees with me on this issue, it will have absolutely insurmountable consequences for our planet when climate change really hits. And we are talking about drought, lack of drinking water and many, many millions of people on the run. What we have seen so far in Denmark of refugees will be very few compared to what we risk if we do nothing about climate change. We do not have binding climate legislation now. We have a target of climate neutrality by 2050, but we do not have a partial objective, we have no way of following it up, and I see it as a bit like deciding that in 30 years' time you want to buy a house, and you want to do that in cash, but you don't start making a plan for saving. You're not even going to count along the way and see how far you've come. That's a pretty ridiculous way of going to such a big question. That is why I also understand that so many young people, in particular, are angry. So the question is I can see that I have to bring it...
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133022	I'm afraid I don't think the time counter on the table works. Pernille Skipper No, the counter doesn't work, so I'm just talking) That's very unfortunate. But I will stand up a few seconds before the speaking time is over and I hope that we will get it right. On the other hand, I know the PM's working.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133037	I just want to basically ask the Prime Minister: why will the government not vote for this citizens' proposal? Is it because the government doesn't want to keep up with a real CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133049	Thank you. Two things: the first is that when it is said that we have no goal, then it is a truth with more than great modifications, because we have goals. It is true that some of the objectives that we have and which we are pursuing are not enshrined in legislation, but are enshrined in some broad political agreements. Let me just remind you of the goal that by 2030, which is not so long overdue, all of this must be a very significant milestone in achieving what is our goal, namely that we 2050 should be independent of fossil fuels. So it is not an objective that is enshrined in a paragraph adopted in the Parliamentary Chamber; it is not; I agree, and you can then discuss whether it would be better if it were, but it is, on the other hand, anchored in a very broad political agreement. It's just to say to a start, you obviously have to have some sub-targets. If you want to achieve the big goal, you have to know how to get there. That's one thing. The second thing I want to say is that I think this is a really exciting citizens' proposal, and I am extremely pleased that there is such a public commitment to this issue. I am extremely pleased that not only in this Chamber, but also in the public, there is greater and broader support for us to have to do something different and that we need to be more ambitious. If we are to link our ambition to live in a prosperous society with the fact that we are also passing on a proper planet to our children, we need to address global climate change. Therefore, the government would also like to make a new Climate Act, and a Climate Act version 2.0 will appear in the legislative programme in the next session. It will very much be a legislative proposal in which we have to draw inspiration from the citizens' proposal that is being considered here today. I look forward to following the debate. The government also intends, like this spring, to launch a wider public debate on what should be promoted in such legislation, in other words completely in line with the fact that we, in cooperation with the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, conducted citizens' consultations on the European Union, we would very much like to take the initiative, also in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, to get a public debate in place that can lead to the Folketing, when we are ready, to consider a well-worked proposal for a Climate Law version 2.0.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133310	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133311	That's all good, you might say. After all, it is a step in the right direction that the government will make a new climate law. Now I have also read the daily press today, and what we have to say is that it is a little bit too bad that such a desire for a new climate law is not followed by anything concrete about what should be in it. Or let me ask in another way: what is the problem with the citizens' proposal that has been put forward? It seems like another diversion, another Commission study, which will have a few years, and then we will have to think about it more. What is the problem with the citizens' proposal, since you will not vote for it? Are these the binding milestones? Are these the national objectives? Is it that the Climate Council has to re-evaluate it on an ongoing basis? What's the problem with this citizen's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133359	Well, I don't know if there's a big problem with that citizen's proposal. What's the citizen's proposal about? This means that the Folketing will adopt a motion for a resolution leading to the subsequent drafting of a legislative proposal. What I'm saying is that the government is hugging this idea and saying: yes, it's wise that we have a climate law version 2.0. I certainly believe that there are a lot of things in the citizens' proposal which can be put into such a version 2.0, but I also think it would be wise to build on this popular interest. That is why the government, either of its own motion, but it may also be in cooperation with the Danish Parliament, it must then depend on whether the Danish Parliament has the desire and energy to do so, otherwise we ourselves would like to form the framework of a popular debate. I fully understand that it is very good that there are 35,000 people and 11 NGOs behind this specific proposal, and that the 11 NGOs have 250,000 members, but that's something I can't figure out • 5.5 million other Danes out there, and we would also like to have a dialogue with them. So we would like to set up a framework for a debate, based also on what is now being proposed and discussed this afternoon, so that we can then take a position on the Government's proposal on a Climate Law version 2.0. And, of course, that only makes sense if it is more stringent than the law we have, among other things. on the 2050 objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133523	The last one is important to get in. But what is even more important to say is that what is all about this citizen's proposal is to have a binding binding and that is why I think there are a lot of people who are a little tired of hearing that it will be voted down while you come up with a promise of a debate about what it might be when it might become a climate law 2.0. So there has to be something concrete about what is in the citizens' proposal, the government will be inspired by. Are these the binding reduction targets? Are these also national milestones? And is this the follow-up from the independent Climate Council? Does the government want it in its Climate Act 2.0? In other words, will a climate policy as responsible as economic policy be pursued?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133619	After all, we are already pursuing a responsible climate policy. Yes, we do. So, even on our own initiative, we have a very ambitious target for 2050, which, as a result, goes beyond what is in the existing Climate Act and which is about independence from fossil fuels by 2050. It is not in the existing Climate Act. We have a stronger objective in relation to what is in the law today. So raising the ambitions of the legislation is certainly a place to start. All those who maybe were put into the question, I don't understand why is there. Well, I'm standing here saying we'd like to make a climate law version 2.0. We think there is an exciting proposal that we would also like to be inspired by, and then we would like to have a debate, that is, a popularly orchestrated and framed debate, in which we will also have to discuss what is the wise way to do it. Because it's fine that Mrs. Pernille Skipper has fallen in love with the model that these organizations have put forward and there's probably a lot of good in it, but there may be other good things you could come up with. It may also be that there are some problems with some of the proposals you have. It is, of course, a question of ensuring a balance between the fact that we have a Parliament which assumes responsibility and which creates the certainty that Denmark is moving along this path. I think we have done so in the broad energy agreements that we have made, but that is something that can be tightened up and that we have, at the same time, flexibility as a government with a parliamentary basis, no matter what colour the government has, also to hunt for low-hanging fruits and make the money stretch the longest and such things. And that's what requires that it's probably a good idea for you to think about it. But then, on the principle: great support for the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133807	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226133815	After all, it is a huge pleasure to listen to this debate today and the last speech, that is. We're discussing green transition, and tonight we're discussing climate law. A friendly advice to the Prime Minister was just to say yes tonight. At any rate, however, it can be said that the citizens' proposal has really sparked the debate, both in this Chamber and also in the population. And if anyone is happy that the green agenda has become much stronger, then that is the alternative. We hope, of course, that the choice we are going to make will be a climate choice. And when you think about climate choices and a green choice, you think: Well, it's just about the climate. But my first question will be about nature. I have put the question to the Prime Minister in the past, that is the whole issue of biodiversity, and I will come back to that again. This is among other things. Against the background of the UN having Nature Day on Sunday. Sometimes it is difficult to really get such a big commitment out when it comes to nature policy. It's much easier to get really deeply involved in paradigm shifts or in syrianskrigs, but how the hell do you discuss butterflies and larks and stuff like that? I mean, how do you get it really politically present? The reason we think this is important is because we watch nature die. Well, we watch nature around us die. Just to give a few figures: It says here on my paper that 11 species of butterflies have disappeared from Danish nature in the last 50 years. The stock of song larks and vibes has decreased by 65 and 76 per cent, respectively. Since 1976. And there has just been a great report on the state of the forests, which shows that it is miserable. As I said, I asked the Prime Minister a similar question six months ago: what do we do with the loss of biodiversity? In concrete terms, what will the government do?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134026	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134027	Indeed, we are in the process of doing a great deal. I know people get tired of the fact that you stand and make references to the fact that there have also been governments before us, but there have been. Well, we're standing on the shoulders of others who did almost nothing. And in relation to the slender shoulders on which we stand, we are now doubling the area of untouched forest and other biodiversity forest on state land. That's what we're doing. We have set aside money to give targeted subsidies to private forest owners who want to go the same way. So we do some things. Most recently, both I and the Minister for the Environment and Food have also taken very nicely the ideas that are hidden in this joint proposal from the Danish Nature Conservation Association and Agriculture & Food, which is really about making land conversion and finding a kind of compromise between agriculture and nature. I hate the word compromise, because I think it is two sides of the same coin, but that is to say, trying to pursue the same ambition by seeing if you can put agricultural land into nature over time, against the fact that in return we have more flexible operating conditions on the farm land that is left. This was something we already started a bit when we made this so-called drought package last year, but of course with an amount that is insufficient in relation to the great ambition. But it's still a picture that this is the way we want to go, isn't it? It must also be in balance with everything else that we would like to see. Just a moment ago we were talking about how we could spend some more money in the area of the elderly; other days they can also spend some more money on educational institutions; and in a moment we will have to talk about infrastructure, and there they will also want to spend some more money. So it has to be a higher unit. But that's the way we're going. So there will be more investment in nature in the years to come, and we have begun to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134228	Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134229	I do not think I question the fact that the Prime Minister actually has a positive intention and that the government has a positive intention in this area, but it does not propose at all. In other words, the UN Commissioner for Biodiversity has said that what we are facing is the silent death that quietly kills. That is what we see with the loss of biodiversity. There are some who have formulated it almost poetically, well enough in the negative way, namely that nature may end up as hospice for dying species. That is what we are facing. Well, it's true that the government is going to lay out these 13,000-14,000 hectares of forest over 50 years, but for us it's bad, not at all enough. The alternative has suggested that all state forest be classified as untouched forest. We have proposed 20%. nature zones in Denmark. And we have proposed strengthening the nature effort in our national parks so that they have the same protection as they do in Sweden and Norway. So my question is actually about these three concrete initiatives: untouched forests, natural zones, national parks with the same criteria as in Norway and Sweden: what is the position of the Prime Minister on these three concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134358	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134359	I have complete respect for the fact that Mr. Uffe Elbæk wants some more of what I want. And that's the way it is. There is a difference between people and parties and probably also between how things are balanced. Because I'm trying to relate to this in a balance with that there are other things I want too. These aren't clear declarations of intent. After all, it is a reality that we have this government, which some would like to draw black against some reds who were there before us. Uffe Elbæk was for a period even part of it and that they apparently want to do something more, so intuitively. But this government is acting where the old man didn't act. We lay out twice as much untouched forest as was laid up. We're doing nature recovery projects. Let me mention Lake Søborg. I remember, since I was a young municipal politician myself, that this project has been discussed. It is a huge nature recovery project that has never been lifted until now and which will promote biodiversity around a recreated Lake Søborg in the North Zealand of the Kings. So it may well be that one cannot get me to sign up to such great objectives that all forests should be untouched and something like that, no, but we are acting, and we will continue to do so. And if the alternative, as it were, adheres to financial agreements and other things, we will also be able to infect more on our actions. Then maybe we'll act a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134534	Yes, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134536	You really have to keep your hats and glasses when you stand here, because you get very quickly caught up in a deal. In fact, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to choose between two questions, which he himself will answer. They're from the members of the Alternative. There's one about paradigm change, and there's one about a wild boar fence. Which one would he rather have? Well, now I'm gonna take it that the prime minister would rather have it with the wild boar fence. Here is the question from one of the members of the Alternative: what is the Prime Minister's view that a so-called wild boar fence is being erected along the Danish-German border which crosses protected areas and areas on the UNESCO World Heritage List, not least in view of the fact that the Minister of Culture has applied to include the border country on UNESCO's list of intellectual heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134643	Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134644	Well, I would have liked to have answered what I would rather answer, but then I just thought that I would have given the third answer, and then I would not be able to answer it. Now, sir. Uffe Elbæk chose me to answer it with the wild boar fence, and then I will. Well, I have a positive attitude to that wild boar fence, because otherwise we wouldn't have decided to make it. We have done so because there is an extremely high risk of African swine fever which, if it were to break out, and we have seen examples of it further down in Europe, would have devastating effects on Danish exports. That's where our world is, I'm sure it's where it's connected. Uffe Elbæk, I accept that, but it is also entirely in cash. One of the reasons why we can at all put money off on the Finance Act to make more untouched forests and give subsidies to private forest owners if they leave their forests untouched is that we have some income. And some of that income comes from some people going to work and doing something that can be exported. And part of that is happening in the agricultural and food sectors. If Danish pig exports were suddenly beaten in reverse, we would also start to gamble with thousands of jobs in slaughterhouses, lost tax revenue, people who were going on daily allowances instead of or on cash benefits. Then we would have less to do with, and then we would not be able to do so much for the frogs and fauna and everything else. In this way, my world is also connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134800	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk and Prime Minister. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226134808	I got such a flashback until then Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen was at Camp David to visit US President George W. Bush and tried to convince him that he was green. Well, when you hear the Prime Minister talking about this government's merit compared to the previous one, it's kind of like when Anders Fogh Rasmussen told George W. Bush that he was an environmentalist. In any case, it will be clear this evening when the citizens' proposal comes for debate, and something that looks like 89 mandates in the Folketing will declare itself ready to commit itself to binding targets in a climate law. The Prime Minister has then explained today that the government has nothing against the citizen's proposal, other than that one will not vote in favour and that illustrates it perhaps very well. However, I would like to pay tribute to the government for something else, since there is now no reason to praise the greens, and that is the basic integration training and agreement with the social partners on it. I agree that it has been a useful tool which has enabled the integration of those who have come here in recent years to have a helping hand through a responsible agreement between the government and the social partners. This is one of the things that the Danish People's Party has, of course, been fiercely opposed to, because it promoted integration. And that is why I am also pleased that the government has chosen to continue the agreement with the parties and has also resisted the temptation to call it the return basic education, or what would have been natural in the wake of the last bill. But it may also be because you may be over here in some of it, which, if you could, is much more equal in relation to the Prime Minister. I think that at some point the Left said that Denmark should be open to those who can and will. And that is where you have to ask yourself, and I think you do the same thing around here: does that not apply to refugees anymore? Because what is happening here is that exactly those who have shown that they can and will, and who have taken up and perhaps taken an integration basic education, are those who have today been made uncertain by the law passed last week, which was not part of a major integration plan, but which was part of an internal survival struggle for the government, where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl invented a paradigm change so that the government could survive and get its Finance Act and some tax negotiations later. Then the Prime Minister made it her own policy, and finally Mrs Mette Frederiksen agreed. But what remains is that the paradigm shift, unlike basic integration training, does not contribute to integration. That is why I ask: is there not room for those who can and will if they come here as refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135032	I think it's turning a lot of things upside down. Now you can use different words, paradigm change, and you can call it what you want. For me, it's about a stronger focus on temporaryity. If there is a paradigm change, it is probably also that there is now a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament who buys into an agenda that says that when you are here, you earn your own money, and you can do your best to learn how to speak Danish. This contrasts with some of the proposals contained in the public debate just a few years ago, when those who were concerned that refugees were turned into immigrants came up with messages: to ensure that refugees are turned into immigrants, it is best that we keep them at a distance from society. That is how the debate was. Now there is agreement on this, and I think it is positive that no matter what you think of temporaryity and how many refugees there should come, it is an advantage that if people come to our front door and are let in and have a right to be here, they should be able to do their job. They have to work, they can get to know our language. That does not alter the fact that they are refugees, as per per year. definition means that if what you are fleeing from is no longer something you have to flee from, then the starting point is that you return home and help build up; it is temporary. In fact, we have another set of rules dealing with foreign labour, and there we have the problem that the whole left wing, who think that we are not humanistic in our refugee policy, is completely alienally frightened in the debate about foreign labour. There we then have another set of rules that allows you to come to Denmark as a labour force. This also means that if you come to Denmark as a refugee and you improve your skills, but your residence base falls away because the situation of your home country is such that you can return home, you can return home. And if you have a set of qualifications that are interesting in the Danish labour market, you can also return as a labour force. Well, that's how it works. That's why it's an attempt, and you should think that a radical thought it interesting to make some things balance. We cannot take the entire world's burden of refugees on us, and if we are to retain the popular support for the humanist policy we are pursuing, then we also have to be vigilant that we do not per. definition makes all refugees immigrants. That's what this policy is balancing, and there's an integration basic training component. Because it's the one that, along with the integration service and the 225-hour rule and other things, means that we're twice as good at making these people earn their own money after three years than you were, last Mr. Morten Østergaard was in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135314	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135315	But it's a confession case, Prime Minister. It is clear from the argument that this is about the government's cooperation with the Danish People's Party, which has been against integration. After all, these are the forces that the Prime Minister himself points out in his reply to me, who wanted people to be interned instead of supporting themselves. The problem is that if what was important was to make integration work, then perhaps it would be better to listen to people out there in reality • those who see where the shoe prints. We can take Dansk Arbejdsforening, who has replied: "The bill contains a number of elements that are likely to limit refugees' self-reliance and labour relations in the future... If there is increased uncertainty as to how long the employee can stay in the country, companies can be more reluctant to invest in and hire refugees. Or we can take the union FOA, whose president says: "We are talking about rejecting people who each day help to make Denmark richer... We can only urge the government to think again and correct what can only be an ill-thought error. For what is real is that companies hire more refugees if they think they can keep them and use them, because the Prime Minister has said that there is room for those who can and will. Now they are insecure. And in nursing homes, where people are lacking and want to do more for the elderly, insecurity has been created for the employees and for the people involved. It has just never been a good idea to create insecurity for them, and that is what the Prime Minister has done against what was said in the election campaign that one would do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135434	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135436	Nonsense. And if I confess something, then I confess that I agree with what I have always thought, namely that it is a really, really bad idea that you per. Automatically becomes an immigrant because you're a fugitive. One of the things weary of this society is that we have, through a generation or more, been pursuing a policy where you could put the bell after that if you came to Denmark because you were persecuted, you ended up being an immigrant nine out of ten. It is, of course, what has taken place that we have a change in the composition of the population, which means that if you open your eyes and go out in reality, you can see that we have massive problems. I am then trying to make some nuances, that is to say to express myself balanced about it, and I would have liked to have dressed that too, sir. Morten Østergaard. Because there are plenty of options in this, too, and that's why I've done a lot of saying that we can't turn back time or make all sorts of easy solutions with people just going home like that in general and stuff like that. It's not gonna last. We have to acknowledge inheritance and debt, but we have to do better from here. And I am completely at the goal of a human vision that says that if you come to Denmark because you are persecuted because there is war in your country, you have to be able to be here, you have to learn our language, you have to work, you have to earn your money yourself, but you have to travel home as a starting point when peace has fallen. That is, of course, the message I take from the Somali President that I met with yesterday. He needs these people! Then I am also on the goal of having a labour market policy that will enable us to take in foreign workers, which may well be some who have so far been refugees and who will therefore have a different basis for residence.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135607	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135609	But the Prime Minister has an incoherent policy. You want more foreign labour because you see it as a problem that Danish companies cannot get the people they need. This applies to private companies, and this applies to public institutions, not least in the area of care for the elderly, which have also filled something in today's debate that you cannot get the people you need. That is why you are worried when you represent the staff in the care of the elderly, because who is going to provide care when the Prime Minister has been around to pick up people who came here as refugees, but who are today just home helpers and colleagues out of the nursing homes, out of the nursing homes again, because now they have to be sent home? The paradigm shift isn't about whether it's good that people go back home. Over the years, there have been fine arrangements for this. It turns out that those who work and work are those who are most likely to seize the opportunities. What this is about is that it should not have any significance whether you are linked to the labour market or not, when it is assessed whether you can be sent home or not. And that is what concerns employers, that is what concerns colleagues, in other words those in the trade union movement, and that is what creates uncertainty for so many people around. And that's why it's hard to understand that if you have problems with not having enough people to take away in the jobs that are, why do you use your political energy to create a system that is about sending people who work and pay taxes and contribute to Danish society home, if you think there should be room for those who can and will?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135731	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135733	I mean, my politics are very closely linked. I think it is a little more difficult as it is being reproduced here. In other words, we would then have to pursue some foreign policy in which we ensured that the refugees who have not entered employment did not get into work, and this sort of thing would also have to end up becoming immigrants. That is what we have done; that is what the problem is! In other words, our problem is, to put it quite frankly, that we have too many people in this country with a third-world background who do not have the same rate of employment, who do not have the same rate of education, who do not have the same, who can say an appetite to participate in this society, and then it quickly becomes black and white, because I think you can say that without saying anything ugly about everyone, because I know a lot of people who have come to Denmark from a third-world country who have caught our society and who will, and who can. We have to balance these things, so we have a refugee policy. You are a fugitive as long as you have a protection requirement, and then you go back home as a starting point. Then we have a foreign labour and student policy and I would like to help liberalise it. I'm not the one who's the barrier here. I would like to help reduce the threshold so that we can also ensure that we can get the skilled staff in our slaughterhouses, whether it is someone who has been in Denmark as a refugee and comes back in as a slaughterhouse worker or whether it is someone who comes from somewhere else. I'd like to be a part of that. So I'm not the one who stands and doesn't have any connection with it. It is then the left who, on the one hand, paints a picture that we should have a strange, xenophobic vision and, at the same time, will not be able to raise our eyes when we speak foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135906	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226135922	Well, then, sir. Morten Østergaard made the PM angry again. Then we will recognise the debate, but I hope that the Prime Minister will have time to breathe deeply before I get the answer, because I will actually go to another subject. I am concerned with a Denmark that is connected, that you can live in all parts of Denmark and enjoy our common welfare, feel safe, send the children to a local school, get medical care within a reasonable distance, if the accident is out etc. All this has gotten harder in the last 10 years. Before the structural reform in 2006, there were 192 police stations around the country. By the end of 2017, that figure was reduced to 128 • from 192 to 128! So we're down to 119. It's a drop of about 40%. since the structural reform led by the Prime Minister himself. The number of primary schools has gone from 1,601 in 2006 to 1,186 in 2018. That is a 25% reduction. The number of libraries has gone from 682 in 2006 to 542 in 2018. That is a 20% reduction. The number of city dishes has gone from 82 in 2006 to 24 in 2018. That is a reduction of as much as 70%. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister thinks that this development is entirely in order or whether centralisation has gone too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140101	Thank you. Here many years after I did and took the lead in making the decision, however, with the support of a majority in the Danish Parliament, you may have some doubts about that, because I am attributed to the whole thing myself, a municipal reform, I can understand that it has been put to hatred in all camps. I find it very, very difficult to understand why there was no dispute with it during this four-year period, when the government was in power and when, moreover, an evaluation of the whole reform was carried out, and then it was cut off and said that it is good, since everything is so wrong. Oh! But it is clear that there has been a structural development in Denmark. It is there and I take my great share of responsibility for it. And on the whole of health, I must say that I think it is quite positive because what happened before was certainly not good: when breasts were cut from cancerous women in the hospital at Bornholm, because surgeons did not have the competence to perform breast-sustaining surgery. It wasn't nice in any way. So that we have gathered some things for greater professionalism, I take full responsibility for it. Then things need to be balanced. That is also why we have now proposed, and it would be good if the SF were to join us, that we should now make two health movements at the same time: moving more offers closer to citizens, health houses, better emergency preparedness, strengthening general practice, educating more doctors and, on the other hand, taking responsibility for tightening up some national framework conditions. Have things gotten better or worse? If we now take the libraries there have been considerably fewer of them last year we had the largest number of visits to Denmark's libraries we know have ever had, at least since 2010: 38 million. Visitor. If I don't remember completely wrong, it's a figure that's grown by 1 million. visits, although there are fewer libraries. Why is that? If you go out there, you can see it. Try to go to Herning and see their library. I could also mention others. Well, then it's because you're one of them. have used these larger municipalities to create some cultural lighthouses that you didn't have before, where it's great to come because there are a lot of offers. So the one offer you have, instead of the three you had before, may have gotten a quality and an attraction that is stronger, and that's why this isn't black and white. I welcome at least 38 million. library visits • 1 million. More than before.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140330	It's a good thing that the Prime Minister thinks it's almost a success that we've had this centralization with that one in five libraries is closed, that one in five public schools is closed, that every other police station is closed. It's not necessarily a success in my world. This means that the citizens get longer for the offers that they need to have close to, and there are some citizens who do not get access to the great cultural lighthouse in Herning at all, because if you live in the countryside, it is really far to Herning. So in reality, the Prime Minister says this is no problem. It is, in my view, because it is a powerful centralisation which I think we should stop. If, then, the Prime Minister himself continues along the path of health reform and says that it can only be good, I would say that the abolition of elected regions does not necessarily seem to me to be positive. It is a democratic link that is being cut away. These are new lines put in the Prime Minister's Office or in the Ministry of Finance, rather than really getting more money for the task we have to do, namely to get more people through the health system. Now the Prime Minister mentioned better emergency preparedness as part of the health reform, but if we now look at the emergency reception, the number of hospitals with emergency reception has fallen from 45 in 2005 to 21 in 2016. It is a halving of ten years, which the Prime Minister has actually led. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the citizens of rural areas do not receive even more basic health offers, just as they received the last time the Prime Minister led a structural reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140507	I am jointly responsible for reducing the number of emergency hospital receptions from 45 to 21. I'm proud of that. I do not know whether one should understand the question in such a way that the SF has a proposal that we should go the other way, because the Social Democrats have a proposal that ten local hospitals should be created. I don't know what it's all about, except gamble with the patient's safety, so now we have to start operating people around at more addresses than we do today. With my participation, I would like to say so. So it doesn't, because one of the reasons why we start to tolerate comparison with other countries when we talk about cancer survival, survival of heart disease, is exactly this. I think that most Danes have understood that it is an advantage to be in the ambulance 10 minutes longer and then get to a place where you can be treated worldwide for what you suffer from than to be put off where the local hospital was before, when we talk about the serious, life-threatening diseases if you get a cerebral haemorrhage, if you get a blood clot. That's why we've made helicopter rescues. That's why we've been doing paramedic training so that the treatment already starts in the ambulance. And then the SF will turn all that back to each man's hospital, and then you have to hope that you're not seriously wrong. That's not gonna work. What we've done is good. It must then be balanced by something else, namely that where proximity is then a quality when the diabetic needs to be controlled, it must be closer. That's why this government wants to set aside 6 billion extra dollars for this purpose. So it has to go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140651	Thank you. The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140652	That's 6 billion. DKK, of which only 300 million. kr. is new money just so we don't think there's magic money involved in this. I think it is very clear that the Prime Minister does not relate to the fact that there are 400 000 people who do not need to get into the health system at all, because we believe that this too can be resolved by structural reform. In fact, I think the Prime Minister is a little too far away from the health reality we see, but I don't think we're getting any closer in this round. So I'd like to jump to another story. In 21 Sunday on DR1 we met Preben. He suffers from sleep apnea, chronic fatigue, heart flutter and shortness of breath. Yet he has been refused home help. The wife Margit has osteoporosis and goes badly. The couple therefore need help with both cooking and cleaning. They've been denied. And Preben, along with 73,000 other weak elderly people, has been refused help in housework. The following day, the Minister of Justice launches a tax plan, where fewer people have to pay top tax, at a price of approx. 2.8 billion kr., and we still have the benefit of seeing what the Liberal Alliance has of tax plans for the next parliamentary term. So I would like to finish by asking the Prime Minister: if this government is re-elected, I hope not, but if it is re-elected, will you give priority to tax cuts at the top, or will the Conservative People's Party and Liberal Alliance really be put in place, and we will have more resources for dignified care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140821	Thank you. And we just need the last answer from the Prime Minister, so please be calm, even if you come in and are on your way to your place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226140830	Well, is it me who's kind to be calm, or is it...? President. - Thank you very much, first of all, and then everyone else). Well, for every time I get engaged, I'm told I'm angry, so I'd rather now try to be completely calm and then say: I think that questions about the government's election program, we wait until the government issues elections. Can't I arrest the new money thing? Well, we have 6 billion. kr. that hasn't been spent on this before, and half of them we're going to spend building some health houses, they haven't been built until the new money... we're going to spend them making extra emergency services, that is, more medical ambulances; they haven't been used before. In relation to the other, I would say that I have not seen 21 Sunday myself because I was at the EU-Arab League Summit, and then I have not had the opportunity to see it. But I also do not need to see 21 Sunday to know that there are parts of our care for the elderly where we have challenges. We talked about it earlier in Question Time here today. That is also why this government has agreed, in contrast to the government that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr was a member of, that more money should be spent in the municipalities where it was agreed at the time that less money should be spent in the municipalities. Have we used enough extra? Not everywhere. Because I can see that some of those places, among others. Where we have dropped the dignified billion, the money that has come out in the municipality is not spent in accordance with that purpose. There may be many explanations for this; I am not standing and hanging out any municipalities by name. But we are going to look at this because a welfare society must, of course, be measured by how to treat people who need help, and that is not least the elderly who are at risk. I would rather turn up here than I would like to rebuild a number of libraries, restore a number of hospitals that we have closed to lift the treatment, or restore a number of primary schools that we have closed to gather the students in a place where they get a better education offer. I'd rather.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141027	Thank you. That's the end of Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141032	Member of the Folketing Jakob Engel-Schmidt (V) has requested that his leave, which under Rule 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Point (a) of paragraph 3 was granted on 29 May 2018, as from 26 February 2019 as from 26 February 2019 as a leave of absence pursuant to Article 41 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (c). If no objection is raised, I shall consider it agreed that leave shall be changed as applied for. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141128	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 79 by Bent Bøgsted (DF), Hans Andersen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Anders Johansson (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 79 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 77 by Rune Lund (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 78 by Mr Leif Lahn Jensen (S). That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141241	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141246	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141335	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141341	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 32 (DF and EL), against 69 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 4 (SF) ]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141428	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141433	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141450	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141540	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141545	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, agreed by the committee that the draft law should be divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill into two legislative proposals has been adopted. The proposal referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on transport companies]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141632	Sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141638	The Enhedslisten believes that the au pair scheme should be abolished. First of all, it is cheap domestic help for families who should be able to afford to pay a collective wage. But there is no majority in favour of this. The second best thing is that we bring au pairs' salaries and working conditions even closer to collective terms, with a marked increase in pocket money. There is no majority in favour of this either. Now there is a proposal from the Danish People's Party to require the host families to pay an amount to cover the full expected cost of au pair's Danish education. We agree with that principle. Today, the host family pays just under half the cost. It's fair that they pay everything. There is also an amendment from the Danish People's Party, which sets the specific amount in kroner and ear, which the host family has to pay to cover the costs of Danish teaching, namely DKK 14.100. We support that. However, in the course of the committee procedure, it has been established that this amount must also be paid by changing host families. This does not make sense in relation to the purpose of covering the fully expected costs of Danish education, because that amount has already been paid to the State once. And what is worse, it will at the same time make it harder for au pairs to change host families and thus put au pairs in a weaker position vis-à-vis their current host family. In 2014, we had an important improvement that enabled au pairs to change host families and obtain a new residence permit so that au pairs were not tied to the same host family for the 2 years that the residence permit lasted. That improvement is in danger of being put at risk if we adopt the legislative proposal as it stands. Our support for the bill will therefore be conditional on our amendments being adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141834	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226141843	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of EL)? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 outside the report (EL). The vote is over. voted 98 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 6 (1 DF (by mistake) and 5 LA (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if there is no objection, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142003	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142116	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142123	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7 member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142140	From a member of the Folketing, Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, who is on leave, I have been informed that from 1 March 2019 onwards she will be able to meet again in Tinget. Rosa Lund's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Rasmus Jarlov): Bill no. L 168 (Proposal for a law for the Faroe Islands on information to be included in transfers of funds) and Bill No. L 169 (Proposal for a law for Greenland on information to be supplied by means of transfers of funds). Christian Poll (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on managing state forests with biodiversity and open-air life as their sole purpose). Marianne Jelved (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the adoption law so as to recognise dual-national adopters). Søren Søndergaard (EL), Lars Aslan Rasmussen (S), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF): Request no. F 39 (What can the Foreign Minister say about the situation of political prisoners in Turkey, and will the Minister explain what initiatives the government and the EU have taken in this regard?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142313	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142331	L 155 is about adoption opportunities for children in families where parenthood is not estimated to be present. I would like to stress that this is one of the most delicate things we are dealing with in our welfare society, namely requiring a family to give up a child. When we have made an agreement on this anyway, this is because we really want to help ensure that children grow up in a good and loving family, where there is plenty to take care of them and where they will have the opportunity for a safe and stable childhood. This has been the whole purpose of the legal amendment in 2015, which was part of the foundation of the previous government. It is also important, of course, to ensure that the law complies with its purpose, namely to ensure that children from birth are placed in a good and loving family, which can provide care and security • the care and security they need when parents cannot. We also note that the consulted parties and actors are largely positive about the content of the draft law, and so we are prepared to vote in favour of the draft law, but we feel the opportunity to say again that this is one of the most delicate, one of the most emotional issues in the social field, and we must think very carefully about what we are doing in this context. It's a small group we're dealing with. During the first period there were 13 adopted without parental consent, and in the last period there have been 17 cases. So it is not the big numbers, but it is nevertheless a very important matter that there is security around them and that the Folketing has done its utmost to ensure that no one suffers in the course that is going to take place. We like the idea that a child should not experience one break after another, and therefore we welcome the fact that it is possible to take a place with the intended adoptive family as the first place the child stays, and then formalities fall into order so that the adoption is carried out. It is evident that the more breaks a child is exposed to, the more likely it is to put itself in the child's life, and that is why we think the proposal here is excellent. So, on the whole, we are positive about the proposal. I would like to stress that this must not become a lever for municipalities to try to move children placed in family care over as forced adoption and thus to lift the burden of costs. We have seen examples of that discussion having been raised, and that would be really, really bad for the area here, because there must be a high level of ethics, including in the day-to-day administration of this subject. So we hope that the Minister will also be involved in ensuring that this happens once the bill has been adopted. I would then have to say that the Radical Left also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142713	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142718	Thank you. I am really surprised that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill, because we have seen that there are a great many errors in these cases, not only in relation to parental competence studies, but also in relation to section 50 studies. And we also know that missing child conversations is one of the mistakes that very often happen. So does the Social Democrats think that legal certainty is in order in this area? Does the rapporteur not think that quality assurance is needed in this area, precisely in relation to that information? Is the rapporteur not concerned that this could also mean that the municipalities are thinking about economics, that is to say that it will simply be a saving exercise? We saw, among other things, that the municipality of Lolland had a headline in their savings catalogue, which was: Turbo on forced abortions. They could save 4 million. kr., if they increased the number of forced abortions. Does the rapporteur think that is correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142821	But I do not think the questioner really listened to what I said, namely that this is one of the most delicate things we are dealing with and that we must therefore make a great effort to ensure that this works well and with a high level of ethics. This is also the case in the municipal administration in the area. But to stand here and claim that there will never be any mistakes and that there can be no errors in alerts is therefore not something I have the courage to do. However, I am completely in line with Mrs Karina Adsbøl when she says that this should not be an austerity exercise for the municipalities, where they see an opportunity to profit from moving children from family care to forced abortion. That would be deeply unhappy, and we will of course keep the Minister in mind that that is not what should happen. Then Mrs Karina Adsbøl says that a great many mistakes have been made in this. Well, I think I said it's about 30-35 cases we're dealing with. Of course, any mistake is too bad. We should avoid mistakes and, of course, we will also help to ensure that this does not happen, but there are, after all, not so many.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142927	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142929	Yes, there are a lot of mistakes in this area. This was also demonstrated by a study by the Citizen's Adviser in the City of Copenhagen in relation to the placement area. There were errors in 100 percent. of the cases. And that's the kind of information you go on with. So let me ask another question: when does the Social Democratic Party think there should be a forced abortion?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226142949	Well, the legal basis we are working on here today applies to a situation where there is no possibility or ability to lift parental responsibility safely. And for us, then, it counts that it is the consideration of the child that goes first. And then we must assess how we, as a society, ensure that it is done by choosing the home that is best able to provide a good and loving upbringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143020	Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143033	Thank you. I should like to focus on one of the last points raised by the rapporteur, namely the issue of parental capacity. For it is also the case that when there was a change of law, it came from something having to be proved to the fact that it now only needs to be made probable. Why is it not enough as it stands now in relation to what the Social Democratic Party thinks? Why do we now need to make it even easier? For that is what the Minister has replied to a question I have asked, namely that she would like to see more cases of adoption brought without consent. The rapporteur said at the outset that the Social Democrats are considering voting in favour, but in the end the rapporteur did say that they are voting in favour. However, I know that the rapporteur is also the rapporteur on disability, and that could be done, for example. well be a disabled mother who actually has a very poor parenting ability, but is it just that there is a contact with the child all the way through life, not something that you have to weigh very, very heavily?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143134	Yes, I would like to do that, but when Mrs Karin Nødgaard asks why we support this proposal, I would say that it is related to the fact that it is primarily a question of gaining time with this. With previous practice, there has been a tendency for it to be submitted to two bodies, and a long administrative process has been possible, with the child having to be placed temporarily and having been able to relate to the parents who are then around the child. And then, when the papers fall into place, the child must break up anyway. So we keep in mind that it is the child's best interests that we are pursuing and that the child must experience as few fractures as possible in the early childhood. Whether this is sufficient and sufficient, we will always be willing to discuss it. As well as this is a review of what was adopted in 2015, we are, of course, prepared to take up the issue again if there are shortcomings. We ourselves have a model that states that you can have a conditional relationship with the biological parent over time if it is for the child's good. And it is crucial that it is what is governing, namely that it is for the child's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143253	Mrs. Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143255	I would like to hear from the rapporteur about this subject of conditional association. Now I do not quite know how exactly to interpret this, but do we not agree that when we talk about adoption by means of coercion, it is definitive? Then it is the case that the adoptive parents have the rule over this child's future life, which means that the biological source, including for example. grandparents are cut off from any contact if not the adoptive parents want it. That's one part of it. The second part is that the rapporteur does not really answer my question about this, if you actually have a disabled, perhaps slightly retarded mother who actually has some love in her, she wants to pass on to this child. Is it really not enough that we are where we are now in relation to legislation? And aren't these quite other things that we should actually get to grips with in relation to the whole housing area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143345	So, what I was trying to refer to was that we ourselves have been thinking about the direction in which we could imagine that this would develop and that in the long term there could be an opportunity to provide intercourse, of course with the adoption family, but also with the biological family, if it is for the child's good. We would like to be open to discussing this in the context of a future review of the legislative proposal, and this also applies, of course, to a disabled mother who has all her emotions in this. That is what lies in it when I say that this is one of the finest things and that it is something where we make the greatest demands that ethics be in place in what the public is doing in this area. So we're open to mistakes and shortcomings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143435	Then it's Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143441	The rapporteur says that the rapporteur cannot guarantee that there will be no mistakes, and I have full respect for that, because we cannot, and perhaps we should sometimes be better able to say something more, especially when it comes to children as vulnerable as we are talking about when forced abortion comes up. My question is very simple. When you do what the government's gonna do in this bill, that is, pulling an agency extra check, can you say out of the equation, don't you increase the risk of error?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143524	There is probably something about that, but you just have to remember that these systems can work for a very long time to look over each other's shoulders, and I am one of those who have become increasingly convinced that what happens to a child during the very first years of life is absolutely crucial to what opportunities the child has in the long run, so we are therefore saying that the consideration of having a safe and good connection that the child can count on from the very beginning is crucial. Then it may well be that we have to live with the risk of a slightly greater margin of error, but that is what lies in our wish to keep the Minister firmly in mind that this must be given full attention, even if there has been a smaller body to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143618	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143619	I respect the desire to reduce the time taken to deal with cases. I have done so, and so I also have respect for the desire to ensure that the child is given a safe start when it comes to carrying out a compulsory abortion. What worries me is that if you increase the risk of error, it is not just a procedural error that will be involved. This creates a risk that some children will lose contact with their parents, even if it was not the best thing for them. And regardless of whether your parents are some huge idiots, no matter how much trouble they have, there is always love between children and parents; so it will always be a failure to be removed in such a drastic way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143702	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143705	Yes, and I repeat once again that this is why, when we enter this very fine-meshed system, we must tread extremely carefully, and we must always bear in mind that it is the best interests of the child that must be decisive. And the child's best interests are then, in the early stages, to have a stable connection with the adults who care about it and who are able to give it the love in the course that the child is going through. How we then set up the systems afterwards, we must keep a watchful eye on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143743	That is true, and if you have well exceeded your speaking time and take a deep breath, then I take this opportunity to interrupt. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226143758	Thank you. This bill is a bit of a follow-up to a 2015 bill. In 2015, there was a majority here in the Folketing that relaxed the rules on adoption without consent, forced abortion, because it seemed that there were too few forced abortions. The aim of the draft law was for there to be more forced abortions. At that time, the Danish People's Party voted against the relaxation. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that a forced abortion is a violent violation of the rights of families and, above all, children. The right to your parents is fundamental. Therefore, such intervention should not be carried out without a high degree of certainty that it is absolutely the best for the child, or without a high degree of certainty that other and minor interventions are not sufficient to ensure the child's well-being. The child's best interests are always the most important. According to the draft law, the comments were that there had been too few forced abortions, and with the draft law it should in future be possible to make it probable that parents were permanently without parenthood. During the committee's examination of the draft law at the time, it was not possible to clarify the criteria to be used to clarify whether this was likely. In the Danish People's Party we find preventive action important, including section 11 of the Service Act, but also in relation to family care and family care. Today, there are a great many errors in the procedure in general in the area of children and young people and in placement cases. We've discussed this before. Among other things: The City of Copenhagen was 100 per cent. errors in the placement cases, and we can see from the Danish map, which we have adopted under the pool of rates, that it also shows a high error rate, including in the area of children and disabilities. That is why we are also concerned about the quality of those dossiers in the whole area of placement. In the Danish People's Party we believe it is imperative to understand that you cannot just wipe away a child's biological origin and roots and that, despite problems, a family cannot simply be replaced with a new one. It worries the Danish People's Party that the basis for such far-reaching intervention as a forced abortion, that is. children's studies and parental competence studies, are of so much different quality and performance from municipality to municipality, and that in the past there have been many errors in the information provided by such cases. Furthermore, we are also concerned that this is not explained in more detail precisely in relation to the likelihood of permanent loss of parental capacity, which, according to the law, will be the criterion of forced abortion. The Danish People's Party fears that the uncertain basis could lead to children being deprived of their parents without a safe basis for it to be the best for them, and fears in particular that it will affect, for example, children of parents with a disability or children whose parents, for example, have an abuse, but who in the future may be able to put this behind them and play a positive role for the child. When the Ankestyrelsen has to assess files that may be filled with errors and deficiencies, there is also a risk that a child may be forced to be removed from office on an uninformed basis, as there is a lack of quality assurance in the cases. The Minister then writes in the bill that it is a small group of very vulnerable children in Denmark who are placed outside the home and who never have the prospect of moving home to their parents because parents cannot and will not be able to care for them. But how small is that group basically? For during the period from 1 October 2015 to 25 October 2018, grants of adoption without consent had been granted for 7 children according to the new rules, but the investigations carried out by the Ankestyrelsen show that the municipalities would have stopped 100 children for forced abortion. And then I don't know if the minister thinks it's a small group. It is proposed that in cases of adoption without consent under Article 9 of the adoption law, the decision-making powers should be transferred from the Family Court House to the Ankestyrelsen. The family court does not then have to deal with adoption cases without consent, and the Ankestyrelsen will thus also take over the tasks related to the decision, including the organisation of child interviews, the granting of adoption authorisation and the submission to the adoption board in cases where there is doubt about the child's adoptionability or where the child is to be matched with an adoptive. We also wonder in the Danish People's Party that the government chooses the Ankestyrelsen for this rather than the Familieretshuset, precisely because we emphasized that the Familieretshuset should be child-friendly, in the agreement we made around the Familieretshuset. Does the Anke Agency even have the framework for this? In addition, it is worrying that the bill says that before the child is adopted at all, the future adoptive family will have custody of the child. There is already an opportunity today to ensure a stable and continuous placement if efforts were made. And then a child could then decide for himself whether it would be adopted when it was 18 years old. We do not believe that this is the right way to go. We would rather work on prevention... and now the President has risen... In the Danish People's Party we do not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144326	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144332	All I have to do is inaugurate Mrs Karina Adsbøl in what I saw on television yesterday: a young man who won a case against the public system of inaction; a young man whose family had been tyrannized by his father, who so much took the courage of both the mother and the children. Is Mrs Karina Adsbøl so convinced that public opinion should never enter into relations with the child's best interests when there is such a case as has recently been mentioned in the press? Fortunately, the family won here, but 15 years had passed of a young person's life, where he had lived with all sorts of diagnoses with one letter and the other. I mean, it's not as unmanageable as Mrs Karina Adsbøl says, excuse me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144432	Now I do not know the case, but I can say that it is not about whether you are for or against, for example. placements. It is about the children being placed on a completely enlightened basis, and we do not see that always happening today. I have an example here from another article: The municipality was wrong. Kevin and Katrine's daughter were forcibly removed from the neonatal ward. The parents got six months after their child back because they won in the courthouse. It would, of course, be a child who could be involved in a forced adoption, and that means that when you have made a mistake, you may suddenly risk having your child forcibly abandoned. This is about a lack of quality assurance in these cases. And, of course, this is about ensuring that children grow up well. Then you have to define what's best for the child. Well, there are many who investigate it, and then they come to a conclusion, but it is not always easy to define what is the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144535	Sir. Orla Sea, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144537	What I just want the rapporteur to philosophize a little over is that it is actually a very nuanced field we are dealing with here, and we have to say that the employees who sit around in municipalities, the Ankestyrelsen and elsewhere and have to carry out this task must have an experience that we follow closely in what is going on. I have indicated that we have an interest in following the area closely in order to see whether there should be wildfires, and of course we stick to that, but we also insist that it is absolutely essential that the child has a safe, good and early connection with the adults with whom it must grow up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144617	Well, in the Danish People's Party we are against the whole background and purpose of the bill. Because if you think about the purpose of the 2015 bill, which this is a follow-up to, then the purpose was that you would have more We think that you should work to get fewer
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144637	We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226144648	Thank you for the floor. Today's legislative proposal sets out to create some continuity and some simple courses for children who are given away without consent or have the prospect of it, so that we can get rid of some of the often complex procedures and long processes that today span our vulnerable children in some, in my opinion at least, unnecessarily long waiting positions. For some of the most vulnerable children, it may be for their own good to be adopted and thus grow up in a safe and stable adopted family. For those children, adoption without consent can be a way to a stable and secure upbringing with the opportunity to process the traumas they may have experienced in their childhood, or in fact to avoid some trauma later in their lives. So it is a question of ensuring that some of Denmark's most vulnerable children are given the best possible opportunities to grow up and give them the best possible opportunities to start some sensible and possibly new chapters in their lives. That is why this area, which has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs, needs to be taken seriously, and there are some balances in this complex that need to be taken seriously. Here, of course, we must ensure that children do not get caught up in lengthy procedures and avoid children getting caught up in bureaucratic systems or losing between two or perhaps even more chairs. A report by the Ankestyrelsen shows that from 1 October 2015 to 31 March 2018 the municipalities have only granted adoption to a very, very limited extent without consent. In this context, the Ankestyrelsen also identifies a number of barriers to local authorities applying the possibility to raise a case for adoption without consent. Here it is, among other things. It has been shown that there is some ambiguity about the possibility of placing a child for adoption. At the same time, the Ankestyrelsen also points out that the proceedings are resource-intensive and lengthy. That is why today's legislative proposal also aims to try to remove some of the barriers experienced in the municipalities with the applicable rules, and to ensure a simple and quick handling of adoption cases without consent. That is why the draft law includes, among other things: the initiative to place the competence to take decisions within the Ankestyrelsen (Ankestyrelsen). This should simplify the procedure and reduce the length of the proceedings. The competence to appoint lawyers is transferred from the State Administration to the municipalities. This should also help to reduce the duration of the proceedings, because the municipalities do not have to contact any other authority in order to have lawyers appointed. Finally, a child who is to be adopted without consent and is not adopted by his foster family is moved into the future adoptive family when the Ankestyrelsen has decided on adoption without consent. In my opinion, it protects the child's best interests, because it allows the child to live with his adoptive family during the procedure itself. In any case, it is my fundamental view that the adoption process should have the child's best interests in mind all the way through, and I therefore believe that this bill has, because it helps to ensure, neither more nor less, that we reduce the bureaucratic processes of adoption without consent. It is also ensured that the children are not left with the biological parents or at a placement establishment for an indefinite period of time, and it will once again help to ensure that as a society we take better care of our vulnerable children in Denmark tomorrow than we did yesterday. At the same time, I am so pleased that we can see that there is therefore a relatively broad support for the proposal from a number of stakeholders in this area. It is probably not surprising that, on this basis, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145108	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145112	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Left if the Left has thought about doing this differently. Because it is, I think, obvious that if you have two or three bodies assessing a case today and you cut off an instance, you lose an extra check, and it is serious when we deal with matters as tacky as these. On the other hand, I can see that there is a long duration of proceedings, and that is bad in such delicate cases. Could something different be done in other ways? Could more resources be provided? Could some maximum processing times be set? Can it be speeded up in other ways without affecting legal certainty and the quality of decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145202	Well, as in all kinds of politics, you can imagine all kinds of things. In fact, I think that we have struck an excellent balance here, taking into account what I fully agree with the questioner that we should, namely the legal aspects. It's like the one consideration you have to take. The second consideration is the need to ensure that the duration of proceedings is not so long as to affect the best interests of the child. I have read this bill through quite a number of times, and I can see that it is incredibly long, as some of these poor children go through. We simply have to reduce this in one way or another, and I think that is something that is really good with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145241	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145244	It's fine. That's just not what I asked. What I was asking wasn't if you could imagine anything else. What I asked was whether the Left had checked what it is that makes the processing time so long and whether there are other ways of shortening the processing time. Has the Left checked it, or has the bill only been read?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145305	What this bill relates to is purely a process. In other words, everything that is going on around the procedure in the municipalities is like a different talk and a different discussion. What we are dealing with here is how we can legally simplify the case process with the tools that we now have at our disposal from the Folketing in order to look at such a thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145329	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145332	Thank you. Long processing times are always bad, and that is no matter what areas we are discussing. However, apart from that, I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable that, as a starting point, there should be no association with biological families after an adoption. It is the starting point of the draft law that you should not do so. Does the rapporteur consider this to be in the best interests of the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145404	Yes, there is a reason why we are dealing here with a relative number of cases and I am deliberately saying relatively limited numbers of cases and a relatively limited number of children. Fortunately, this is because these are extreme cases. That is where we are talking about the most vulnerable children in our society, where forced adoption is, in fact, the last option. There has, of course, been a long process ahead of that in which we have probably tried all sorts of other options, and in this situation I think it is reasonable, as a starting point, that we should start by not having association with our biological parents. It can then come later in the process if and if it is in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145451	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145453	Now the rapporteur says that it is a limited number of cases. Well, the whole purpose of the 2015 legislation and this bill is that you can have more cases, that you can have more forced abortions. The investigation by the Ankestyrelsen also shows that if there were 100 cases, they would stop. So when is that a few cases? That is why the rapporteur's answer in this area gives me some surprise, so when you keep saying that it is a limited number of cases. Well, the whole point is that there should be more cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145525	I think that there should be cases, because I do not think, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, that some kind of equation can be drawn up for this. I do not think that you can set out some formula for how many placement cases you have to have at all, how many forced abortions you have to have in this society. I simply do not think that an equation can be drawn up for this. After all, it must all be based on an individual assessment in relation to the individual child's starting point, in relation to the family situation in which the child is in question. Does this mean that it should not be flexible when it is necessary? No, it does not mean that, for it must be flexible and unbureaucratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145606	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Karin Nødgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145610	The latter actually led me to ask the rapporteur a question. The rapporteur says that there should be no equation for the number, and I quite agree that there should not be. However, there is a minister in this area, even a conservative minister, who would like to see more cases of adoption brought without consent. Does the rapporteur agree with that? Another part is that one hears that there may be municipalities in Denmark that specifically make a catalogue of what they can save money on. In fact, they state that, if they make more forced abortions, they can save 4 million. kr. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145658	Let's do the first part first. If it is the case that there are not enough forced abortions in the municipalities, understood in such a way that the municipalities like to refer to and argue that they do not initiate this type of case, because you can see that what you have to go through in the future is simply extremely bureaucratic, and if from here we can eliminate some of the bureaucracy that makes it easier for the municipalities to act here, that is to say to stop children for forced abortion, then I think that is fair enough; then you can argue that there are actually too few. In other words, if there are fewer people who are forced to be adopted today, then one might well argue that there are too few if it is simply because it is too bureaucratic to stop it from being done by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145801	Does Mrs Karin Nødgaard wish to speak again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145805	If a municipality specifically expresses the wish to put turbo on the number, what does the rapporteur think about it? Now I know that the rapporteur has party colleagues who lead a great many municipalities in Denmark, but is it not something that can cause some concern on the part of the rapporteur? For then it is the economic thinking, and not so much what the rapporteur said in his speech, about thinking about the child and the best interests of the child and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145837	As I also mentioned in my reply to the previous rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, the children who have to be forcibly kidnapped must be forcibly kidnapped. However, it is clear that if there is any bureaucracy preventing the municipalities from initiating some cases of forced abortion, then we have a problem, and that is what we are trying to address with this bill, namely to make things less bureaucratic tomorrow than they are today. Because it should not be with reference to bureaucracy that the municipalities do not initiate cases of forced abortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145912	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226145924	As has been said sometimes in this debate, adoption and, above all, forced abortion, in other words adoption against the will of biological parents or custody holders, is something very, very violent. For many children, it will often be seen as a failure in itself that you could not stay with your parents. And that is, whether there were many good reasons for it or not, for being taken out of the lap of one's family forever and with a complete distraction is a violent thing. I often think that the debate does not take place today, I would say when we discuss adoption, may appear very black and white, as if, if there are social problems or problems with abuse or anything else in a family, you can just remove the child like that, and then it just has to have some good parents, and then the child is just happy forever. But we should remember there that parents and children will always have love for each other, no matter how many problems there are, I think. You can't just wipe away that connection with your parents. When we are critical of this bill, it is not really because we do not want to simplify matters. I also very much agree with the title of the draft law, which is that if you are to have compulsory abortions, it is actually very good that it is not being dragged out because it is in itself a difficult process for children. The question is whether this is the most appropriate way of doing it and whether what we are removing with this bill is really bureaucracy, as the rapporteur of the Left called it, or whether it is legal certainty; whether it is a check of the legal certainty of children, their right to a proper decision on their behalf, especially when it is such an intrusive decision. If you make mistakes in cases of forced abortion, it has major consequences both for one side and the other. If you do not forcibly adopt a child who should have been forcibly adopted, it may turn into a changing placement course, and in many ways it can become an uncertain childhood. But you can also make mistakes to the other side and make a forced abortion, where the child loses contact with its biological parents, although they could actually have played a role in the child's life. That's why we can't make mistakes in these cases. That is why I get nervous when you call it simplification, because there will be less authority to check whether it is the right thing to do. Because what's happening here is there's an authority less checking it out. The draft law, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has said, also states that the aim is to have more forced abortions. I am also concerned, particularly in the light of the liberalisations that have occurred in recent years. I also think that we have seen some cases that have been really scary, namely when a municipality has budgeted or has tried to budget with savings, on the basis that it is estimated that there must be forced abortions to pick up somewhere, and then you can save some money on some foster families. It's a pretty creepy approach. This probably also shows that there is a pressure on the economy in that municipality. But it's a pretty creepy approach. I am also concerned that the legislation that is still relatively new may mean that there are children who might benefit from staying in a well-functioning foster family, but where the well-functioning foster family for one reason or another, for example. Because they can't be without getting paid for it, for example. be that they cannot have that child without supervision, help and support... say no to an adoption, and then make an unnecessary and a bad shift for the child by carrying out an adoption. So I am already ample concerned in this area, and I am therefore also relatively critical of whether it is a good idea to implement this bill. We have a number of questions for the Minister, which we will put in writing, about the more technical parts of the draft law. It is also to find out whether it actually meets the intention. These questions will be sent to the Minister in writing. And then I should like to welcome the SF and say that they are also relatively sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150417	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150420	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for the speech. I just have one question: is Enhedslisten opposed to the part of the bill that is about placing the child in the adoptive family from the start, which will mean more stability for the child? The rapporteur has also stressed the best interests of the child, and how important the first few years are for this child, so what is Enhedslisten's position on that part of the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150452	It's one of those parts that we really want to drill out a little bit. And frankly, we're in doubt whether it's a good idea or not. You might also imagine, if a decision is actually reversed in the courts, that you have made an unnecessary shift away from a well-functioning foster family. We need to get it drilled out. We are frankly in doubt about that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150513	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150529	Thank you. In the Liberal Alliance, we think this is a good bill. We think it's a good thing that you get a look at the processes in these cases. And that is exactly what we are dealing with, that is, the processes. Today it may take up to 2 years, and it is just a long time for a tiny child to be in an uncertain situation. What you really want is to cut off a single link. Today there are potentially five bodies through which you can get through: the Children and Young People's Committee, the State Administration, the Ankestyrelsen, the City Court and the Land Court. It is then the one link that is being tampered with, i.e. the State Administration, and the assessment is that the State Administration and the Ankestyrelsen make the exact same assessment of adoption without consent. So there is a pure duplication of effort at stake here, and that is exactly what we want to simplify. I also think it's positive that this proposal proposes to place the child in the adoptive family right away, because exactly these shifts that children are exposed to are problematic. I think that is perfectly fair in comparison with the rapporteurs who have problematized the legal situation, legal certainty. I think we're all worried about that. My own assessment is based on what I have read about the case that this does not weaken the legal position, because it is precisely the same assessment that is being made in the Ankestyrelsen and the State Administration. So there is no increased legal certainty about having the link it has so far only an prolonging factor over it that harms the child. So I think this bill is basically good. I think it's a bigger problem when you talk about forced adoptions more generally... then there are challenges out there. We've seen mistakes, and they're some we have to deal with. In relation to this bill, it does not actually solve all the problems, but it solves some challenges that are and that is why we support it in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150747	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226150802	Thank you very much. As the Socialist rapporteur, Orla Hav, began by saying, this is an extremely vulnerable subject for many children who are in an incredibly difficult situation, probably the worst in their lives. So it is in the most literal sense human fates that we decide here. We have, of course, discussed in the Alternative what we should think about the proposal, and indeed we have a position, but we have also agreed to listen to the debate today, and on the basis of it I will make a final recommendation to the group on what we are doing. The proposal is about making it easier to adopt children without consent and whether we should allow children to be placed with a future adoptive family while the child's case is being negotiated? I really think that these proposals raise some new questions which should be very much answered for the benefit of the child. These are also some issues we have discussed, namely whether this could lead to cash thinking. Do municipalities sit with their strict economy and plan for compulsory adoption for economic reasons? Another question is whether the legal certainty of the child is affected by cutting off one of the bodies responsible for assessing the case. A third question is whether we are cutting off children not only from their parents but also from their siblings and their grandparents and others who could have created security and a network around the children. The three questions I have not heard answered for the child's undivided benefit in this debate, and since in the alternative we are more interested in ensuring that the child's contact with their biological parents is, whenever possible, instead of forced adoption, we are actually opposed to the direction in which this bill is going. In the light of our discussions in the Alternative and in the light of today's debate, I would recommend that our group vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151014	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151028	Yes, all children deserve a good start to life, and this bill concerns the small group of children whose parents have no or almost no parenting ability and where it is estimated that it cannot really be achieved, and it is estimated that the child's development and well-being are best dealt with by an adoption without consent, which can ensure a stable and secure upbringing for the child, which would otherwise have been placed outside the home. With the bill here, we simplify the process for dealing with adoption cases without consent in the administrative system by bringing together the tasks and decision-making powers of the Ankestyrelsen, since today the system is characterised by processing times of up to 2 years, which is not in the child's best interests. At the same time, it is proposed that children who are not to be adopted by their foster family can be temporarily placed with the future adoptive family once the Ankestyrelsen has decided on adoption without consent. The bill will mean that the period during which the child is in an unsolved waiting position is considerably reduced and that the child's association with the adoptive family can start significantly earlier in the child's life • the close attachment, which is just so important in the early years. Conservatives can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151208	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151213	For the Conservatives, I actually thought it was a lot about safeguarding the family. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur about the remuneration. We see at the moment that children are being held hostage to the problem of remuneration. We have a foster family where the municipality says they have to go down in consideration, and could one imagine that the municipality would say: Well, but if you don't go down in remuneration, then we'll find a family who will adopt this child? Are these any of these things we're going to look forward to as a result of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151253	Now I don't have a crystal ball I can look in and then answer what we're going to look forward. I believe that this is the right solution for the small group of children, where it is estimated that their parents have no or almost no parenting ability and that these children are thus provided with a good upbringing in an adopted family that can perform their parental function.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151321	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151323	So the rapporteur does not know whether there will be fewer or more changes in placements. A five-year-old who has spent his whole life in a foster family who may not want to adopt the child may now risk having to be forcibly aborted. Isn't that what you're risking with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151346	Well, it will be the case that there will be a professional assessment. That's what happens with these children's cases: that in every child's case an individual, concrete assessment is made in relation to the child's best interests. And, of course, that will also happen in a matter that you are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151405	I would like to thank the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151415	Thank you for that, President. And thank you for the very constructive debate on a subject that has been described as very delicate, delicate and also difficult, and I really think it has been a very good debate. Today there are children who are born into a world and a childhood that is placed without any chance that their parents will ever be able to care for them. It is children who experience a whole childhood and also a whole youth with the risk of changing the location, the risk of poorer well-being and the risk of having worse school results than their peers, and the very, very vulnerable children here are also entitled to a good, safe, loving and stable childhood, and adoption can just that which guarantees them that love and security. I have been reminded by municipalities that when they look into what is best for the child, they opt out of a potential adoption course because it takes up to 2 years, and because you can only place the child with the adoptive family when it is that a decision has been taken, and that is why I am now carrying this bill forward. Because it has to be precisely the best consideration for the child when it is that you make an adoption without consent, which must be absolutely crucial. It has to be for the child's good. It should not be the consideration that they are long processes or that you get a shift made by first being able to place the child later. That is precisely why I have to say that it makes a real difference to a child whether the stable childhood of an adopted family begins when the child is 3 months old or when the child is 2 years old. And then we know that there are children who don't get the opportunity for a safe childhood in an adopted family, and that it is, precisely because this long process means that the municipality doesn't see adoption as a real possibility, despite the fact that it would actually be the best. So with the bill, we simplify the process, we create the basis for an earlier relationship between child and adoptive family, and we do so without compromising on legal certainty. Today, there are potentially five bodies which have to decide that a child can be adopted without consent. With this bill, it will in future be four bodies, each of which will have to decide on this. So I very much believe that we continue to ensure legal certainty. And, of course, I will also be available for any questions that the committee may have during the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151709	There is just a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151712	In the Danish People's Party we disagree with the purpose of the bill, precisely because, as I have already mentioned, there will be an increase in the number of forced abortions. We have learned about the area through several consultations, and the Minister has also been in consultation in this area concerning foster families and threats in relation to compulsory families. It is about the fact that if there is a child with disabilities, you threaten to bring them in. There are a lot of things in this complex. I'm standing, for example. with a case here where Sara and Kasper are good parents in Esbjerg, while in Aarhus they are unsuitable. Then it's just that in connection with these decisions I would like to hear something about legal certainty. In some cases it is assumed that it is a child's right to birth, but what about this? Now the child is to be deprived of the right to its biological origin, that is to say. parents, grandparents and siblings. And do we have any evidence of whether more or less placement changes will occur?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151828	It is certainly quite evident that if the child can only be placed in the adoptive family when the final decision is available and the final decision is only after 2 years, then at least a shift gets a shift that can in many ways be described as unnecessary, and I believe in the long, stable relationship. We also have to say that this is a law and a legislative proposal which do not relate to compulsory detention or to the procedure in the municipalities. It is important to say that these are decisions which, first and foremost, recommend adoption without consent to the children and young people's committee, and then, also on the basis of clarification and decision by the Ankestyrelsen, a decision is taken on exactly the same thing in the State Administration. Then it becomes the city court, and in the end it becomes the court of law. It's just to say that these are the very few cases where there is no prospect of a parenting ability being created. This is not about forced adoptions or the placement area in general; it is about adoptions of children who cannot be with their biological parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151942	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226151943	Yes, but today we have a number of children placed in foster homes. As I said to the Minister's fellow rapporteur, we have a five-year-old who has been placed in a foster home for five years, but now the municipality thinks that the foster family should go into care care care or other, or that they should adopt this child, but if they do not have the opportunity to do so, then we risk that there will be a change in the placement of the child at the end of the day, and then we do not guarantee the continuity of the child's life through the long-term placement that we would like, but which was possible today, if we made a great deal of effort in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152030	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152031	This applies only to cases where there is no prospect that a parenting capacity can be achieved in any way. There have been seven adoption decisions since 2015 • the four of them have been for the baby, and the three of them have been for a little older children and these are all decisions that today have to go through five bodies. That is why I do not consider it realistic or relevant for the debate to start talking about a reduction in remuneration, because that is not what is at stake when we talk about an adoption. It is a question of having biological parents who do not have a parent's ability and cannot have it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152118	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152120	There I must come the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party a little to the rescue, yes, not to the rescue, there is no need for that. But the point is, in fact, that I have at least experienced enquiries from foster families who have faced a municipality that has said that if they do not want to adopt the child, then the municipality will adopt the child elsewhere, because that is what you can do. And then there's a foster family who needs the money they get from the municipality because you're dealing with a difficult child, which means that both parents can't go to work as long as they have that child. And they're facing the problem that they need supervision and help... something you don't get if you adopt the child. They are squeezed between it and the child being removed from them and just getting an extra placement change because the municipality is pushing if they do not accept an adoption. It is therefore a problem that is real enough and that is what this is all about when you want to make it easier to adopt compulsory abortions and want to have more abortions. Then you have to consider that it can also risk increasing the number of shifts in children's lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152238	I think it is very important just to establish that this is not about relaxing the rules. These are exactly the same criteria with which we adopt without consent; from the change of law in 2015 to what we are putting forward here, there are no changes in those criteria. It is only a matter of looking at the process. What I have been reassured about is that one still has a very, very strong legal certainty. The cases of forced adoption or adoption without consent, as is rightly called, are now potentially assessed by five bodies, if, as a biological family, you want to follow the matter all the way. We propose that in future it should be four bodies. But it is just important to say that the very criteria for when to adopt without consent do not change.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152330	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152331	Firstly, I would like to say that the people whose children are removed by forced abortion often have very few resources to go to the courts. We must recognize that too. Secondly, the problem is that when you debureaucraticise in this case, you also take away a small amount of legal certainty. I mean, you take away a little extra assessment that helps make sure this is the right thing to do. The Minister must agree with me on that first. Secondly, would the Minister not be kind enough to answer whether the Minister has even considered additional resources for case handling, other ways of reducing the length of proceedings than by removing a stage of legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152416	It is not because there are long waiting times to be dealt with. It just takes time when it's that it has to go through five agencies. That's what can take up to two years. If you pick out the body called the State Administration and the assessment, which is similar with the assessment made in the Ankestyrelsen, you can reduce the processing time by 51⁄2 months. The most important thing for me is that with this bill, we are not weakening legal certainty, but are improving the possibilities of prioritising and helping the child to what is best for the child. That is what is most important to me when we are dealing with adoptions without consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152457	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152510	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152528	L 156 is a rather broad bill, but I will try to summarize it. The bill consists of two parts. One part relates to changes in the rules of force of the Service Act and aims to provide municipalities with the best possible framework for the care of adult people with significant and lasting impairments of mental function, including people with dementia. The second part concerns changes in the rules on housing provision under the Services Act and general care housing under the General Housing Act and aims to provide for the possibility of targeting the housing offer for young people and to cover damage caused by tenants in general care homes. The bill provides for the possibility of making proposals on house orders, the purpose of the rules of force, physical guidance, prevention, retention, etc., locking and securing of outer doors and windows, security-building welfare technology, short-term retention in personal hygiene situations, registration and reporting, redress and targeting of housing offers for young people and local coverage of damages caused by tenants in general homes. There has been, we have to say, a need to clarify the rules of duty to care for the use of force in the Service Act. Today, citizens and employees are often caught up because the rules are not clear enough and there are doubts as to what is the right thing to do in the specific situations. It is essential to create clear and simple rules that take into account both the individual citizen and the community. On the whole, it is important to make it clear that intervention in self-determination must always take place with the citizen's best interests in mind and in order to ensure the citizen's care, dignity and security. This also means that social pedagogic interventions must always be preceded by intervention. For the Social Democratic Party, it has also been important to clarify the responsibility and care for the individual in the community and to take care of all citizens and not to allow consideration for the individual to exceed the right of everyone else to safety. It is a comprehensive legislative proposal with a wide range of elements which, overall, contribute to achieving a good balance between consideration for the community and care for the individual while clarity for the staff. We also note that the consultation answers are largely positive and that the actors in the field, the citizens and their relatives, the professional organisations and the staff, are all pleased with the changes that are now being proposed, rather than the original proposal, which was on the part of the government. We believe in the high level of professionalism of staff and in the fact that staff can easily decide where the boundaries lie between power and social educational methods, but it is also necessary to back them up with legislation and to clarify what can be done and what cannot be done both for the staff and for the citizen. So with these considerations we intend to vote in favour of the draft law as it stands, but of course we are taking part in the committee work that is coming and we will of course also be listening to whether there could be improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152902	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226152911	Thank you. The bill we are discussing today consists of two parts. One part relates to changes in the rules of force of the Service Act, and the other concerns changes in the rules on housing provision under the Services Act and general care housing under the General Housing Act, where we make a targeting of housing provision for young people. Both have been negotiated and broad agreements have been reached. The rules of the Service Act on the use of force against adults with significant and lasting impairments of function must first and foremost ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the citizen, including the right to privacy and to personal integrity. Faced with these fundamental rights, the municipalities' legislative obligation to ensure the care, dignity and security of this group of citizens who cannot take care of themselves or overlook the consequences of their own actions and who will often not be able to give informed consent to care and care efforts. This is the balance we politicians have tried to find in the agreement on changes in the rules of force use, which is why we have also been in close dialogue with relatives and interest groups who are defending the interests of these citizens. The minister and I have visited, among others. Sølund at Skanderborg to see for ourselves the matter, and we met, among other things. relatives and had a good dialogue with staff regarding their challenges. The Danish People's Party considers it important that the municipalities ensure that there are sufficient staff to meet the interests of the target group, including for care and care tasks and activities etc., and it has also been important to reflect on the consequences that could result from having carte blanche lock all doors, as this could help to reduce staff standards. Therefore, the Danish People's Party also got written into the agreement that an intervention in the right of self-determination must never replace care and educational support, that educational efforts must be constantly adjusted and adapted to prevent the use of force, and that the purpose of the interventions must not be to replace staff resources. I must be honest and say that this has not been an easy task, as there are a great many concerns and interests to be dealt with in such a legislative proposal. The review of the rules of force application carried out in 2017 showed that the rules in force can, in practice, be a barrier to staff providing the necessary care and protection to citizens in situations where current social pedagogy interventions fail. It was therefore unclear to the staff what they had to do as part of the general care and when the right of self-determination was being violated. The agreement, which is now being implemented in this legislative proposal, contains several things. A new, clear legal basis will be created for staff to use physical guidance of citizens in the daily care provision, including to ensure security and well-being at a residential or nursing home. Physical guidance can be done for the benefit of the citizen himself to ensure his or her safety and dignity. Physical guidance can also be done for the sake of the other residents or for the sake of community on the accommodation offer. Physical guidance does not have the character of force, but is part of care and should therefore not be recorded and reported. There shall be no retention in connection with physical guidance. A change is made to the rules which will allow staff to use short-term retention without prior decision, for the first time there is a personal hygiene situation where this is necessary to ensure the citizen's care, safety or dignity. This must always be recorded and reported to the personnel manager and to the municipal council and the social inspectorate. It also provides a legal basis for immediate intervention by staff if necessary to prevent injury to a resident. So it is made clear when the use of force can be used. I have read all the consultation answers and they are generally and generally positive, but of course there can always be something to which attention must be paid and follow-up questions can be asked, and such a draft law can always require clarification. We are certainly pleased with the agreement we have made together, even when we consider how difficult this area is. So in the Danish People's Party we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226153414	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226153426	Thank you. After all, the rules of the Service Act on the use of force against adults with considerable and lasting impairments of mental function must first of all ensure respect for the fundamental rights of the citizen, including, of course, the right to privacy and to personal integrity. So it's like one side. On the other hand, and faced with the fundamental rights of the citizen, the legislative obligation of the municipalities to ensure the care, dignity and security of citizens who cannot take care of themselves or cannot understand the consequences of their own actions and who, unfortunately, will also often not be able to give informed consent to care efforts. Therefore, the duty of care to that group of citizens also implies that staff should, if necessary, be able to intervene in the individual's right of self-determination if it is not possible to ensure the care, dignity and security of the person mentioned above by means of such wider social educational efforts. It is therefore the case that a service review of the rules on the use of force has shown that the rules in force can be a barrier to the staff being able to provide the necessary care and protection for citizens in situations where the social-educational interventions referred to above do not strike at them in the wider sense. This is partly due to the fact that there may be a lack of clarity in relation to what staff can do and what staff must do as part of general care for the citizen, and in relation to when the right of self-determination is being violated, and of course neither the citizen nor the staff can be served with that. That is why we in the Left and I agree that we must change the rules, so that the rules on the use of force support precisely the caring treatment of citizens in housing and housing provision, and that is why this is a sensible legislative proposal, which is based on a very broad agreement in the Folketing. At the same time, I am also pleased that we are now addressing the need for young people to be with peers by giving municipalities an opportunity to search or point young people with reduced physical or mental capacity to offer services that are actually targeted at young people. Of course, regardless of the level of function, it is natural for many young people to want a youth life with someone who is at one's own level, that is, with peers. And by targeting housing and housing for young people, yes, a housing offer with youth environments can be created precisely for these young people. After all, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, these are difficult balances, many of which need to be taken into account in these issues, and I am therefore actually pleased that the relevant organisations and other actors in this area have generally welcomed the draft law. I am also glad, as I mentioned earlier, that the agreements that form the basis of this complex of legislative proposals enjoy broad support across the parties of the Folketing, because I think it is actually extremely important that we have, precisely in an area like this, a fairly common foothold in dealing with such an issue. In my view, both citizens and staff in residential and nursing homes deserve a fairly clear framework for the use of force, and the young people deserve, as is also the case in the bill, more targeted housing offers, and there I think it is important that it is based on the broad support of the Folketing, which we also see there, exactly around this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226153811	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226153818	I think it is gratifying that the present proposal on the use of force and other interventions in relation to the right of self-determination is far from the proposal presented to us by the Minister in the spring of last year when the negotiations started. A number of problematic changes to the rules on the use of force, including more relaxed rules on registration and reporting, were proposed in the proposal to abolish the distinction between the physical framework for temporary and permanent accommodation offers, which could have had very unfortunate consequences, in the form that the permanent accommodation offers under section 108 could have become some kind of treatment institutions; and serious deterioration of the right to own accommodation was played out in the form of easier access to force citizens to move against their will. Fortunately, the proposals have been strongly lured into the process, and I have noted that KL finds it regrettable that the government has not been able to implement all the measures agreed between the government and KL in the 2018 Economic Agreement. I can tell you that we don't do that in the Enhedslisten. We recognise that the bill is far better than the proposal put forward by the government. This is not least due to the energetic efforts of the disability organisations, among others. to prevent the registration of housing clauses. The same was achieved in relation to the far-reaching proposals to relax the rules on the registration and reporting of the use of force. And I would like to say that it is also a good thing that the proposal provides for the possibility of setting up youth housing, as several other rapporteurs have mentioned, and I think that, with the framework created for the use of security-creating welfare technology, a level which seems to be reasonable and reasonable at least. Unfortunately, the draft law also contains some amendments that we in the Enhedslist are concerned about. This is particularly true of the amended rules on retention, which ease the exercise of power against citizens, which we do not think there are sufficient good reasons to introduce. The extent to which the changes are going to change the concrete practice of the settlement offers, we cannot, for good reasons, know that practice must show that it is, of course, the intention that it should be possible to keep the citizens in situations where there is no legal basis for it today, otherwise the proposals do not make any sense at all. We have also noted that, among the many positive comments made in the consultations on some of the issues I have mentioned, there is a concern that the amendment of the law could lead to an unnecessary increase in the use of physical force. It is a concern that we share, and that is why I would like to say that, although we are relieved that the vast majority of deteriorations have been tampered with by the government's original proposal, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154159	Thank you. As several of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this is about finding the balance between the individual's freedoms on the one hand and the municipality's powers and the municipality's duty to take care of them on the other. It is indeed the case that the rules in force today make it difficult for the municipalities to be able to take the necessary care of the citizens and that, in some cases, they have in fact had to commit offences in order to meet their needs and, of course, that cannot be done. It's an unfair situation to put the employees out there in. So it has been some long negotiations because it is a difficult area and a complex area, but with a good political agreement that balance has been found and we in the Liberal Alliance support that agreement. With the second part of the bill, which deals precisely with the need for young people to be with other young people, we are now giving the municipalities a better opportunity to target housing offers for these young people, and that is also very positive. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill, which translates the two political agreements that we have helped to conclude.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154321	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154333	Thank you. This little piece of legislation is made up of three legislative proposals based on political agreements, all of which are part of the alternative. The first draft law is based on the fact that in 2017, as part of the Government's National Dementia Action Plan 2025, a service review of the Services Act's rules of force application was carried out. The proposal is based on recommendations from this, and it is stressed that the use of force and interference in the right of self-determination must only take place after staff have tried in vain to resolve the situation of social education and must always be based on the principles of proportionality and gentleness. The aim of the legislation is to provide municipalities with a framework for the provision of care to adults with significant and lasting impairments of mental function, including those with dementia on housing or day care. A wide range of changes are proposed, such as house order, use of force, physical guidance, prevention, retention, security-building growth technology, locking and securing external doors, windows, hygiene situations, etc. It is proposed to add to the purpose clause of the Service Act that the use of force and other interventions in the right of self-determination must be made solely to ensure the care, dignity and security of the citizen concerned or to take account of the community on the offer of accommodation or day-to-day. This is for e.g. to clarify that the use of force must not replace social pedagogy or human resources. The legislation is the result of lengthy discussions in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Social Affairs, which for almost all parties have concluded with an agreement that we can support. In the alternative, we have been very focused on citizens' private freedoms throughout the legislative work. This has sometimes required a detailed focus, for example. to ensure that a demented resident does not have a camera in his bed. For no matter how significant and lasting a citizen's disability is, the citizen has the same right to the same objective of dignity as all of us. When we look at the consultation answers, there are a few that I think we could look at in committee, namely that the Social Affairs Council cannot agree to the proposal, so that preventing the destruction of residents or other values will not be in line with the nature of the intervention. Here it may be wise to check whether the end justifies the means. Social educators support all the audits, with the exception of the hygiene clause, because they cannot support the distinction between people with innate or acquired impairments of function. They recommend that the same rules apply to all. It would be nice to have the Minister's thoughts on whether to do so. All in all, however, the alternative supports this legislation, just as we support the other proposals to target housing provision for young people, as well as the municipal coverage of damage caused by tenants in general housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154628	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154636	Thank you. When people are unable to take care of themselves, the welfare society becomes an important partner in their lives. For SF, it is important that the welfare society is able to support the individual citizen on its own terms and to the extent possible. It's just easier said than done. How do we assess the wishes of the individual citizen for a good life on his own terms when the citizen is unable to express his own needs in a language that we all understand? First of all, we need enough time to learn how to communicate on citizens' terms. Because, as far as possible, we must try to satisfy the wishes of the individual citizen as long as it does not harm anyone else or harm the citizen himself. It has also been SF's starting point in the negotiations that form the basis for the bill here, which deals with the provisions of the Services Act on the use of force and provisions in relation to housing, which is a product of the negotiations that we have had for a long time. I understand when organisations are concerned about rules that are about the use of force. The concern is often about whether the use of force takes place for economic reasons and in this way replaces staff enough. Therefore, it has also been important for SF to make it sticky and fast that the use of force can never replace the right norms and the right professional competences. I have been impressed by the fact that Jeanette's severely handicapped brother on Sølund had actually reduced his freedom of movement because he was not allowed to lock a garden gate. As a consequence, he could not go out into the garden himself and play with cars, because he thus went on out on the road to the big cars. It has also impressed me that Thomas' sister has serious health challenges because she per. automatically just say no when someone wants to help her get to the dentist or come to a doctor. We can do much better than that. In everyday life, unclear rules also create a lot of dilemmas for staff who, on the one hand, are bound by professional responsibility and, on the other hand, by unclear rules on the use of force. The bill seeks to meet those particular challenges. Is that good enough? I'm thinking it's a step on the way. We need to move. Indeed, we must move as we, in dialogue with each other, gain more and more confidence that we all just really want the best of these citizens. We are obliged to do so. The SF supports the bill and, on behalf of the Radicals, so do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154936	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226154944	The bill here concerns some of society's most vulnerable citizens and their concern for them. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the aim of one part of the bill is to provide municipalities with the best framework for ensuring the care of adults with significant and lasting impairments of mental function, including dementia. The second part of the bill is to provide for local coverage of the damage caused by tenants in general care homes and a targeting of housing for young people, so that young people with disabilities can have the opportunity to live in a youth environment. Conservatives can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226155032	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226155039	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for a fine receipt of the bill. The target group for this bill is, of course, some of society's most vulnerable citizens, which is why clear and well thought-out rules for the care of these citizens are extremely important. That is why I am very pleased that it was a broad circle in the Danish Parliament which, in August, concluded two agreements to improve the rules of the Service Act on the use of force and improvements in housing. With the part of the bill on the use of force, we will ensure that better and clearer rules are created to ensure that the municipalities have a better framework for caring for the vulnerable citizens of this target group. And with the part of the bill on housing, we want to give municipalities and regions the opportunity to target housing for young people, so that young people with disabilities can have the opportunity to live in a youth environment. We also want to provide a legal basis for the local coverage of damage caused by tenants in general housing. I am very pleased with the balance we have found in the draft law, and I believe that the draft law can make a really positive difference. I am, of course, available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings. As far as the use of force is concerned, I have been called on politically to put forward a legislative proposal which will enable all doors to be locked in a living room in exceptional cases in order to prevent a citizen with disabilities from causing significant personal injury to himself or to others. The call comes in the light of the unhappy case of 22-year-old Jonas Høj Jensen, who is so extremely outgoing that he is a danger to his surroundings. That is why I am now going to have a discussion with the rapporteurs of the parties which are behind the agreement on the use of force in the field of disability, in order simply to have a discussion on whether this is a way we want to go together. My starting point for these discussions will, of course, be a strong focus on the fact that access to lock all doors can only be used exceptionally and in the form of a derogation and within a very clear legal framework. But first of all there must be a discussion with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226155250	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226155307	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226155334	Thank you, President. Motion for a resolution B 55 proposes that the government should take the initiative to introduce financial compensation for citizens who are successful in the Ankestyrelsen in complaints about municipal decisions. And as I understand the motion for a resolution, it is about the situation in which a municipality has decided to refuse or reduce the aid under the Service Act to a citizen and where, at the time of the appeal procedure, the Ankestyrelsen changes the municipality's decision. According to B 55, the financial compensation must be proportionate to the benefit which the citizen has not received while the complaint was being dealt with and the parties supporting the motion for a resolution must then subsequently discuss the fees for compensation. The motion for a resolution should serve two purposes. Firstly, the financial compensation must be a plaster on the wound in relation to the aid that the citizen has not had access to during the appeal period, and secondly, the scheme must be a signal to the municipality and provide an economic incentive to be more careful about making the right decisions for the first time. I therefore regard the resolution as such an attempt to strengthen the legal certainty of the citizen. And, as I have said many times in the past, it is absolutely indisputable that the citizens must have the right help and support that they need under the law. And then they must have it in the first place by the municipality's decision in their case, without it being necessary to go to the Ankestyrelsen. However, in the government, we do not believe that the introduction of a compensation system is the right way to go in order to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. First of all, I would like to say that we disagree with the conditions underlying the proposal for a compensation scheme. As I read it, the premise behind the proposal is a view that the municipalities make decisions that are in breach of the law, consciously and indiscreetly, in order to save the aid during the appeal period, and that, therefore, there will be a need, as it were, to remove the financial incentive for such behaviour. However, I believe, as I have already said, that the municipalities basically have the will to shoulder their responsibility for the conformity of the proceedings with the law. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the Services Act is a framework law and that sometimes doubts arise as to when a decision is within the legal framework and the municipalities must certainly improve. However, I do not believe that a compensation scheme will have the effect of making any more correct decisions on the part of the municipalities. From a citizen's point of view, it is of course important to get the help that the citizen has the right and also needs. A financial compensation which the Ankestyrelsen lays down in its decision on the appeal does not give it to the citizen. What the citizen wants is help under the Services Act at the time when the need is present. This could, for example, be an offer of activity covering the need for activities outside the home. And, of course, it is also important to say that a compensation scheme will become administratively cumbersome very quickly. After all, in each complaint case, the Ankestyrelsen will have to use resources to decide what compensation the citizen will have to receive, and that will also be the case, regardless of whether or not there are central tariffs for compensation. And then there is the question of how to set fair prices at all, which will thus become manageable in practice. The benefits that will be covered by the scheme are precisely not monetary benefits, where it is an amount that can only be returned retroactively if the Ankestyrelsen agrees, no, it will be natural aid, such as accompanying or helping with practical tasks at home. It is a considerable difficulty to establish this. Where appropriate, it will be necessary to create an extremely fine-meshed network of tariffs covering all benefits in kind provided by the Service Act, which therefore takes account of the fact that there may be both cases of refusal of aid for first-time applications, the reduction of aid to varying degrees and, as such, also the refusal of aid granted previously. It seems to be very administratively cumbersome, and whatever that may be, it will certainly not provide the citizens with the assistance they need at the right time and in the right place. In the government, we do not believe that this is the right way to go in terms of strengthening citizens' legal certainty. Instead, we believe that our efforts should be concentrated on supporting the municipalities' case handling and a reasonable processing time in the Ankestyrelsen. It is, of course, in the light of that, that we set aside just under EUR 54 million with the 2018-2018 rate-pool agreement. kr. to an action plan to improve the quality of procedures in the field of disability. The action plan must therefore help to ensure that, as a citizen, the aid which the law requires is given in the first place. The initiatives in the action plan are currently being roll-out. One of the initiatives already taken is that it has become compulsory for municipalities to deal with the annual Danish conversion rates. In addition to the action plan's other initiatives, this should ensure that the responsible politicians in the individual municipal councils focus on and also actively take a position on the quality of the proceedings in their municipality. In 2018 and 2019, the Danish Agency of Appeal is also in the process of launching new and improved initiatives precisely to strengthen the municipalities' case management in the first instance. And then we have established a fast-track system for the cases covered by the alert system in the Services Act, in other words, particularly intrusive decisions where aid is denied or reduced. It means, of course, that in cases where the reduction of aid can have a very significant impact, in most cases the public will receive the aid during the entire period of complaint, and in those cases compensation will therefore not be relevant. Then, with the 2019 Finance Act, we have also set aside 35 million. kr. in 2019, EUR 30 million; kr. in 2020 and in 2021 and 25 million; kr. in 2022 with the aim of reducing the processing times within the Ankestyrelsen. And finally, with the 2019 stake pool agreement, we have set aside a total of 12 million. kr. to further initiatives to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. These are measures which are good examples of how we work in this way to support the good quality of the procedure in the municipalities. So if I am going to pick up this way in the end, we in the government do not believe that a financial compensation system is the way forward in order to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens. Firstly, we do not agree with the rationale behind such a system, and secondly, financial compensation does not provide citizens with the help they have wanted at the time when they have had the need. And the system is also in danger of becoming administratively heavy. Instead, we believe that the legal certainty of citizens must be strengthened by supporting the local authorities' procedures and by ensuring reasonable processing times within the Ankestyrelsen. We are therefore taking ongoing initiatives to this end. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160104	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160108	I think it is really a pity that the Minister will not help strengthen citizens' legal certainty. I know that the Minister is also aware of this, because we have had consultations on it in the past, in other words we know that we are not getting the help we need. We have among other things. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. So it's also about not getting the right visitation in relation to the number of hours you need. But if the Minister does not want to take part in this excellent proposal and the Minister does not want to impose sanctions on municipalities that do not comply with the law, how are the citizens to react when they have been upheld by the authorities that there has been an error in their proceedings over a period of one year? So that's too bad? Should they not have a bandage on the wound in the form of compensation for the fact that they have been mistreated and have not actually received the benefit to which they were entitled under the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160217	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160218	It must, of course, be the case that, if you need an effort, you must have that effort. That is why I am very concerned about the fact that we are getting there, that the municipalities are improving the quality of procedures. This is also why we have together made these Danish maps, where you can see how many decisions are being appealed to the Ankestyrelsen, which are being sent back to the municipalities for review. And then we have even imposed on the municipalities that once a year they will have to discuss these conversion rates. It is precisely to get the local debate on whether the level of service in the individual municipality is what the municipal politician wants to achieve. So I actually think that we have taken a really good move towards raising the quality of the procedure. If we cannot support the motion for a resolution that is here, it is because it will be very heavy. It is difficult to see such a system in practice. And that does not solve the fundamental problem either, namely that we want the municipalities to make the right decisions for the first time. A compensation scheme does not go in and contributes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160335	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160336	As I said, it is really a pity that the Minister will not be involved in this. The minister says that if you need effort, you have to have that effort. Then I have to ask the Minister: if the citizen does not get that effort, is it only a pity that the citizen has not been given that help for one year or how long it is now that this complaint has been going on? What we hear over and over again is that it has no consequences if the municipality has failed to comply with the law and you have not received the benefit to which you were initially entitled. That's the other thing I'm all for. We in the Danish People's Party have fought to get a look at this area and also in connection with the task force. But one doesn't rule out the other. Of course, there must be an improvement in the procedure, but there must also be compensation when you have not received the benefit you were entitled to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160427	After all, a compensation scheme does not give the citizen the effort that the citizen needed. And when we talk about the social area, it is of course important that the municipalities make a decision that is correct and correct in the first place. This is also why I have a very, very strong focus on the fact that these Danish maps or clotheslines, as they are also called, will have a meaning. We have taken a large number of political initiatives together, and at the same time we have this clothesline or this Danish map, which will ensure that the discussion about whether it is okay at local level is conducted on the basis of the fact that there are such high conversion rates in, for example, the children's handicap area, where we can see that it is, on average, at least 50 per cent that are being re-examined in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160519	Then it's mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160521	I understand that the Minister is saying that the most important thing must be that the municipalities make the right decision for the first time. On the other hand, I cannot understand the Minister saying that this proposal should not contribute to making the right decision for the first time. In other words, when there is a border-seeking procedure in the municipalities today, is it quite obvious to save money, and when this limits the ability of the municipalities to save money, does the Minister not think that this would be an incentive to make more of the right decision for the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160558	Well, I do not agree with the premise that is raised in the question, because I do not agree that the municipalities per. definition had to make decisions to save money. A number of the individual cases I have looked into show precisely that it actually ends up being much more expensive for the municipality not to make the correct decision and launch the correct bets from the start. So if it is to be said at last that the municipalities are speculating on something, then they ought to be wondering what it will be like in the long term. This is also why we have decided to create a SEM model, which means that we can calculate what the effects of a given effort will be. However, this is something away from what a compensation system will be able to do, and a compensation system will certainly not, in the end, give the effort that a citizen would have liked to have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160652	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160653	In other words, when you look at the Ministry of Social Affairs' Danmark card, you can see that there is, for example, one of them. in children's disability cases, errors in more than every other case brought before the Ankestyrelsen. I've been thinking that maybe there could be some economy involved in this since there's such a huge error rate. But if, in the Minister's view, the economy does not play a role at all, what could be the reason why there are errors in more than every other case brought before the Ankestyrelsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160730	Well, actually, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Jakob Silverhøj also highlights the Danmark maps, for they have really had an impact. They have had a local impact, both in relation to local disability organisations and other stakeholders who have been able to address this debate. And then there is something very clear, because it is exactly as I said myself: that in about half of the cases, the matter is returned to the municipality for clarification. After all, it is important to make the correct decision the first time. If we then ask that once a year the municipalities should have these Danish maps on the agenda at a municipal council meeting, it is precisely because it is the local politicians who have to measure the service they provide. And I believe that it is healthy for local politicians and politicians to discuss what kind of service they offer to their citizens. So I really think it has been a good and positive thing that we have got the Danish cards alongside all the good initiatives we have taken to ensure legal certainty and to ensure the quality of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160833	Then we thank the Minister and start the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Orla Sea, the Social Democrat, who is in favour. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226160855	Thank you. It is, of course, a re-submission of a resolution from the past and we have not changed our point of view on the proposal from then on. I would like to say that we certainly think that citizens should have the help they are entitled to under the law. And the exercise must go on to ensure that the municipalities have established the decisions that are under the law. We are happy to contribute to this work, including helping to guide municipalities and to ensure that they correct legislation. Let's do a thought experiment. If the Danish People's Party came through with this compensation proposal, a possible consequence on the part of the municipalities would be to say: Well, now it has become even more expensive if we make a wrong decision, so we better guard ourselves extra. Then there would be an even longer processing period, thereby losing the citizen even more of the help that the citizen has applied for, and the municipality would have an incentive to hire some more in some administrative functions rather than some with warm hands that can help the citizens. It is the one thought experiment one could do about the consequences of adopting such a scheme, which the Danish People's Party would so much like to have carried out. The second thought experiment could be to say: if the municipalities now have such a compensation system and it is put very well in place, one can start to count on when it is best to pay the compensation and then let the citizens sail their own lake in relation to getting what the citizens are entitled to under the law. Both we think are really bad. It is really bad to talk about such a principle of either stalling or speculating that you can just pay compensation. It must be the case that from in here, with all the help that we have, as the Ministry has, and with which the Ankestyrelsen and others are equipped, we must ensure that we are guided by the municipalities so that they get the right decisions so that the citizens get the help to which they are entitled. A diagnosis has been mentioned which we know is being discussed in these days, namely the diagnosis of which is a terrible diagnosis to get. There is, of course, a great risk that, if the right decisions are not made in relation to this group, they will be gone with the prognosis of an als-patient before it is possible to go to compensation. Therefore, we venture into a slippery path in relation to our system in an inappropriate way. We don't think that's okay. We would like to help the Minister to ensure that the legislation is followed and complied with. The Danish map, which is a shameful Danish map, has been mentioned, and we have helped to draw attention to the need to correct it well and thoroughly. A process has been set in motion in relation to one of the municipalities that I am aware of, and that is good, and it is all right to do so. However, the consequence of this must be that the municipality learns to administer the legislation that they are set to administer on behalf of the community. This is the path we need to take, that is to make sure that the right incentives are on this track. So with these reasons, I can say that the Social Democrats do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161307	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161311	I don't understand the Social Democratic mindset. Because this does not rule out making the right decisions in the first place. This is, after all, to create compensation for those citizens who have not received the benefit to which they were entitled, for example. in the Service Act. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: if the legislation has not been complied with in a specific case and the citizen is successful it may be that, after 12 months, the citizen is supported by the Ankestyrelsen.What are the consequences of not having received the benefit to which he was entitled? Does it matter? Should there not be some consequence, that is to say that you can feel that you have to pay back compensation because you have not provided the service to which the citizen was entitled? Does it matter when the legislation is not complied with in the cases we see?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161413	Our starting point is, of course, that the legislation must be complied with and completed. And if the municipalities are not able to do so, they must have the necessary guidance to understand how to make the right decisions and to create the right solutions on the basis of the law. If you are cheated of having a walking tool at your disposal because the municipality has made an error decision, you will not be happier to get a check of 10,000 DKK. After all, you need help to travel around the countryside and to share in social life. That is where we have to say that the municipalities have to understand what is being taken away from the citizens, and to that extent we have to be tough on driving on the municipalities and make sure that the ministry keeps the municipalities on the narrow road and say that these are the right decisions we need, not all possible compensation systems for administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161520	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161521	No, but this will help to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens, especially in relation to the right decision. I simply do not understand why the Social Democrats do not answer the question: what if the legislation is not complied with? What about those citizens in whom legislation has not been complied with in various cases where no help has been given? What will the Social Democrats do in these matters? Doesn't it matter that those citizens haven't gotten that help? Because they have not received it, and we see cases where we have not received the assistance we were entitled to, and we hear time and time again when we come to the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment: why is it that we are free to break the law without having consequences for those who break the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161607	I am now confident that the Ankestyrelsen has the necessary professional insight to put up the reprisals with which the municipality is to meet, so that the citizen gets help, and it is the citizen's legal certainty that you get it. We are not in favour of further bureaucracy in this area, which is our concern that this resolution will lead to. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161637	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Orla Sea. Then it's true that it's sir. Martin Geertsen, on his way to the platform representing the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226161652	Everything was right, what the President said there. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for highlighting that people in this society must of course have the right to the help and to the assistance to which they are entitled based on one or the other search. Having said that, I also disagree with the premise of the proposal that municipalities should make decisions which they know are at odds with the law in such a broad sense. Without having to swing me too high on a very, very high horse here on a Tuesday afternoon, it is probably due to some of this country's success, after all, that we have and have had confidence in each other and basic trust in our public institutions, and I personally think that we should be a tiny bit careful to break that principle and here on the part of the Folketing so over a broad board signal that citizens cannot fundamentally trust municipal decision-makers. The Danish People's Party's proposal goes against the starting point we have in the Left, which is that we trust the municipalities to try to make the right decisions towards vulnerable, elderly citizens and others. When wrong decisions are made in the municipalities because that is what they are doing, I certainly do not think it is because of malicious will, but I think that it is, for example. may be due to complex legislation, which has been difficult to navigate around in that there may be cumbersome estimates or other. With that said, of course, we agree with the objective that we must do what we can to try to ensure that proper decisions are taken in the first place. Of course, the citizens cannot be served with anything else. But we do not think that financial compensation is the right way to go to achieve that objective. A financial compensation scheme will not give the citizen what he or she has wanted or has the right to do on the basis of, and following, the decision of the Ankestyrelsen, for example. in cases of assistance under the Service Act. At the same time, a financial compensation scheme will mean that the Ankestyrelsen will have to decide on the individual case and which compensation the citizen will then be entitled to, and one can well imagine that the duration of the proceedings of the Ankestyrelsen will not, on that basis, be shorter. In other words, a compensation scheme will, in my opinion, be administratively demanding and very costly, and I do not think there are any citizens who can benefit from that. So the crucial point on this issue must be: how do we guarantee the best possible legal certainty for citizens? In fact, I believe that we have gone considerably further by looking at the barriers faced by citizens in the system by strengthening the framework for raising the quality of the case-handling process and reducing the processing times. The Minister mentioned some of the initiatives that have already been taken, and I should just like to highlight a few of them here. At any rate, we are pleased that with the 2018-2021 rate pool agreement, among other things. has set aside just over 50 million. kr. for an action plan to strengthen the quality of the case management in the field of disability, and we have also allocated EUR 35 million under the 2019 Finance Act. kr. in 2019 and 30 million; kr. in 2021 and 25 million; kr. in 2022 to reduce the processing times of the Ankestyrelsen. With the 2019 stake pool agreement, we set aside a further 12 million. kr. for the period 2019-2022 for the implementation of initiatives to help strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in the social field. So I actually think that we have come a good deal in relation to what I think is the original intention of the Danish People's Party, namely to strengthen citizens' legal certainty in relation to the municipal system. What I have just said here, I have said on behalf of the Left, but in reality I have also said that on behalf of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162104	Thank you. Then we shall hear Mrs Karina Adsbøl for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162106	Yes, I fully agree that we have taken some good initiatives. It is also something that the Danish People's Party has pushed for, precisely that we also had money allocated to a legal protection council and that we were given money to get help to complain. We agree with all these things, and that is something we have fought for ourselves. But when it happens that you as a citizen are successful in a decision you have lacked a good during that period, does the rapporteur not honestly believe that it is reasonable to have some form of compensation? The rapporteur is probably aware of this in relation to other cases where you can say that you do not get the goods you have ordered, and there you also have compensation rules. It is therefore a matter of legal certainty and of having that sense of justice as a citizen. It is a plaster on the wound that you will get compensation because it turned out that you were successful and you will receive compensation at the same time because you have had to miss that benefit during that period.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162216	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162217	My starting point is that our welfare society is based on the fact that some people are paying some taxes and that we and others are then laying down rules on what we are using these tax dollars for, including to offer some different kinds of services, especially in relation to people who need help. If it is also the case that those who sit and search and, by the way, make these estimates, in relation to what the citizen should have, do not make the necessary and the right estimates in relation to what we have sat and legislated on here, then there are some appeal bodies in this society that make those decisions possible. Well, this isn't about people getting money out of the public system. After all, I am convinced that people must receive the benefit to which they are entitled by law. That must be what is at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162317	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162318	Let me give the rapporteur an example. You have a child who has a disability, and you want to train that child at home. This has been refused and cannot be allowed to do so. In the meantime, when that case is running, you are out to pay for help to train your child at home. Is it so reasonable that later, when you are successful, you will not be able to receive compensation, even in relation to the expenses you may have incurred, and in relation to the fact that you have not received that benefit from the beginning?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162353	No, and the latter is, in fact, at the heart of what the rapporteur says. No, it is not reasonable for a decision to be taken or an estimate to be made which does not comply with the rules applicable in the area in question. Then, of course, the decision must be appealed, and if it has not been correct, it must be changed, and those who sit and make the estimates must make some other estimates. It's like the way this system is built.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162421	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. And then we welcome Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162432	I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for a good resolution. There are far too many errors today in the handling of social matters by the municipalities. We can see from the latest report by the Ministry of Social Affairs that the Ankestyrelsen covered more than a third of all social complaints and that, as I have already mentioned in a question just now, it can be seen that there were errors in 52%. of the cases dealt with in the field of children and disabilities. I would like to say that this is no less than obscene to the families who have experienced a defective procedure or a directly wrong decision, and I think it is deeply worrying that legal certainty for citizens is no better than what is documented in that inventory. The wrong procedure can, of course, have extremely serious consequences for those citizens who, for a short or longer period of time, do not receive the support they are entitled to. Not least in this light, I think it is grotesque and it is, after all, at the heart of this proposal that the municipalities can make savings by carrying out a flawed and erroneous procedure. Perhaps it would be a good idea to sharpen it up here to say that there are municipalities that deliberately make mistakes in the procedure. The Minister mentioned this in her speech and she did not think it was a question of it. However, I would like to say that I have no doubt whatsoever that in many places a deliberate cross-border procedure is being carried out, which goes exactly to and, indeed, sometimes also over the edge of the legislation. In fact, the municipalities do not run any financial risk in testing cases where they are in doubt or where the doubt has shrunk, so that they know that it is actually a misdecision. It is the case that when the case goes to the Ankestyrelsen, yes, so even if the municipality is not successful, the money is saved throughout the period during which the proceedings have taken place. I am simply in no doubt about the wording of the Services Act, which also emphasizes the economy as part of the case-law, that there are also economic drivers who determine that there are so many errors. The proposal we are debating here today therefore has a dual purpose. Firstly, and this is the most important thing, it opens the way for people who have not received the aid they are entitled to be compensated for. That's very reasonable. But I also believe that it will be of secondary importance that it will put pressure on the municipalities to change their procedures when it no longer becomes free of charge with faulty procedures. The latter is insanely important because, in my view, the problem is also greater than what we can see in the figures appearing on the Danish map. We know that there are a great many citizens who have neither the power nor the insight to raise a complaint, and in the shadow of the figures from the Ankestyrelsen there are, in my view, a large number of mistreated cases that never come to public knowledge. That is why the adoption of the proposal could be of great importance. I would like to say that with the considerations that have been raised here from the platform, we can already get a level of compensation where it would actually cost the municipalities money if their social proceedings did not meet the requirements of the law, yes, then I think we could really move something. This should probably lead many municipalities to consider both hiring more case managers and ensuring that the case managers that the municipalities have have the absolute best competences. I hope that, unlike when we dealt with one if not identical, there will be a political majority in favour of the motion for a resolution at least three years ago. I can hear the speakers who have already been saying that it seems heavy. I have to say, I really can't understand it. I simply cannot understand why it is not obvious that when citizens do not receive the benefits they are entitled to under the legislation, because that is what is at issue, they are compensated for it. I would also like to say that I think this is a fine initiative taken by the Minister for Social Affairs with the Danmark map. It shouldn't be unsaid here. But I think it is quite obvious that in itself it has not been enough. In fact, there was an increase from the first to the second publication of the Danish map. In the area of child and disability, an increase from 46 per cent actually occurred. 52 per cent. So it is quite obvious that the map itself has had no effect. On the other hand, I believe that the proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party will have an effect. We in the Enhedslist think that this is a good proposal and we will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226162958	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. We have reached Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance in the rapporteur's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163005	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. After all, we discussed this three years ago, when I also indicated from the platform that I too am frustrated and offended when municipalities deprive citizens of benefits to which they are entitled. Then it takes 10 months for a processing period, and then the citizen gets a benefit from the Ankestyrelsen, but it has been 10 months since you have not received cleaning care, home care, home training or whatever it may be. It's not okay in any way. That is why I welcome what the Minister and some of the rapporteurs have said about the fact that we have done to strengthen the procedure. A lot of money has been set aside to strengthen the procedure. Money has been set aside to reduce processing times, and that is a good thing. The map of Denmark is also good. Then I am also pleased with the Legal Security Council, which is supposed to help this situation. There are very, very many good initiatives which, like those of us, are aimed at strengthening the rule of law for our citizens. Then I think it is nice to hear Enhedslisten here from the platform talk about financial incentives and how they work, and say that you believe that if the municipalities are punished, they will change behaviour and that you generally have faith in financial incentives. That is also something we believe in in the Liberal Alliance. We have always said that we think that we should be better at punishing the municipalities that break the law and that we really want to impose fines on the municipalities because money talks and we believe that it can make a difference. So basically I have a great deal of sympathy for this resolution, as do the authors of the motion for a resolution, and I look forward to the second reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163206	There is, however, a question now from Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163210	Thank you. Indeed, the rapporteur for the authors of the motion is well aware of this, because when we last discussed the proposal, the Liberal Alliance voted in favour. I am well aware that this is now a different situation for the Liberal Alliance, because they are now part of the government. Therefore, allow me to conclude that it is the Left and the Conservatives who do not support this proposal and that is where the rapporteur must correct me if it is wrong and then I am aware of the situation in which the Liberal Alliance is in. I have also heard the rapporteur say in the past that some periodic penalty payments must be granted to municipalities when they do not comply with the legislation. That is why I cannot at all imagine that the Liberal Alliance cannot think that compensation for citizens by breaking the law is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163258	As I said, I think it is quite unreasonable when, by mistake, citizens are denied a benefit to which they are entitled under the law. It is true that we have revolved a little around whether the municipalities are speculating or not. We do not know that, but at least I think it is unreasonable that municipalities can achieve savings at the expense of the citizens. So the Liberal Alliance and I are on the side of the citizens, and sometimes you cannot knock at it in the first place, but you may be able to do so in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163334	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163337	I would just like to say that the rapporteur should not be surprised that the Enhedslisten believes that economic incentives are working. That is, for example, the case. That is why we would like to see another way of regulating the budgets of the municipalities. In fact, we believe that it will work to punish municipalities if they do not comply with plant ceilings and service ceilings. That's why we really want them gone. Having said that, however, I am pleased that we agree on this issue and it would be nice if the Liberal Alliance could persuade the other parties in the government to support the proposal. That would be very good both for legal certainty and for the citizens affected by the injustice that is being tried out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163424	My little teasing about economic incentives was, of course, primarily about transfer income, where we think it is important that there is an economic incentive to move from transfer income to employment. But it was teasing. I'm not often in line with Enhedslisten, but sometimes you have to experience it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163452	Then I think we should stop here and thank Mrs Laura Lindahl and pass on the floor to Mr Lindahl. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163503	In the alternative, we still believe that it is positive that people who are successful in a complaint are granted financial compensation. We thought so last time we voted in favour of this resolution, and we think so again. We think it is reasonable that the municipality should pay compensation to people who have been deprived of goods which it has since turned out they were actually entitled to keep. In the comments to the proposal it is quite clear that there may be cashier thinking that the municipalities interrupt many of these cases on the Ankestyrelsen, and even when they lose them, the municipalities are left with a gain and the citizens with a loss. The municipality has saved money while the case was in the Ankestyrelsen. In the alternative, we are working strongly against cash thinking, and we believe that if there are to be financial incentives, they must always benefit citizens. That is why the alternative supports this proposal. As stated in the proposal, we are in favour of the authority that has made the wrong decision bearing the cost of compensation. The compensation must serve two purposes. Firstly, it must be a plaster on the wound to the citizen for the lack of good that the citizen has not had access to during the appeal period. Secondly, it must be a signal to the municipality to be more careful about making the right decisions the first time. A compensation scheme will thus create an economic incentive so that the municipality makes the right decision for the first time. At the same time, as others have done, I would like to congratulate the Minister on some of the measures that have actually been taken, because some of what is really at stake here is that the municipalities should be supported, so that they have the right competences and resources to act properly in the first place. Of course, as other parties have also pointed out, we are very concerned about this, and it is a good thing to hear about the measures that have just been presented by the Minister here. After all, it is strange, as has just been mentioned, that parties, which I imagine might be in favour of something with financial incentives, are not so positive about the proposal, while other parties are. Finally, I would like to thank you for the proposal for the Danish People's Party. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163728	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. And the next is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226163738	I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal and highlighting a real problem. I understand the proposal and, as such, agree with the proposers that we should consider how to prevent the economy from being above the right decision and that it makes sense to give local authorities incentives to make the right decisions. But I really believe that the proposers also agree with the SF that the best solution is therefore the right solution. Compensation can only be seen as a Band-Aid on the wound, but the compensation does not measure up to the fact that a citizen with, for example, a disability or an elderly citizen who needs home help may have had to put life on standby for months. Financial compensation is therefore not immediately the right solution. That, on the other hand, is the right help. In the SF we want to help find solutions to the problem that we agree to exist. First of all, we must have confidence back. This is not going to happen by itself, both municipalities and Parliament must work hard to prove that we mean what we say, and we must also put action behind words. I recognise that there is some way to go there. There are examples of municipalities thinking in economics more than in the necessary and the right help, and there are also examples that a municipality is using the Ankestyrelsen to test limits on the provisions of the Services Act. For example, the mayor of the Count has recently done so. But it is also a fact that tight municipal budgets, which are not compensated for demography, mean that a heel has to be cut and a toe has to be cut, and we in the SF would very much like to discuss the possibility of compensating for that. We would also very much like to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens, for example. to require that decisions of municipalities on applications also describe the long-term effects of e.g. the necessary help. I mean, if you don't give the right help, what are the consequences on the long run? That is the kind of thing people are concerned with. It also makes very good sense for us to say to the municipalities that the solution that is the cheapest here and now is not necessarily the cheapest solution on the long track. But this presupposes that we give municipalities the opportunity to think in some long-term solutions and perhaps also with some multiannual budgets, who knows? At any rate, we would very much like to be involved in the SF in continuing discussions on the possibilities and also for reasons and effects in the committee. So if the Danish People's Party thinks that this could be an idea, then perhaps it could form the basis for a joint report on what it is that we will not accept in relation to the processing of citizens with disabilities, but also for a common goal that citizens with disabilities should first and foremost have the right help, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164054	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164057	Well, we all agree that citizens need the right help in the first place. But the rapporteur is also aware that this does not always happen, and what if it does not happen? Should you then say to the citizen: Well, you should have had it; you have had to spare your help, and that is a pity, but there is nothing to do about it? Or should it be said that it is really a pity that there has been a mistreatment here, and that is why we are well aware that it does not measure up to what you were exposed to when you have not received the right help and you have not been able to get to activities or anything else, but after all you get a Band-Aid on the wound? Does the rapporteur think that it does something about your sense of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164140	Well, I think it does. But I also think that a regret would do something about one's sense of justice. I think it does something about one's sense of justice when it is the case that a municipality chooses to let the Ankestyrelsen make decisions to see how far the law really goes, that is, where the limit really goes for what we are going as a municipality or not to be as a municipality, more than that one is concerned with what helps the individual citizen. I fully agree with Mrs Adsbøl that this is unsustainable, but I would just like us to try to help focus on not being brought into that situation, because the powerlessness that comes from not getting help for perhaps months cannot be compensated for by money. After all, that money does not replace the aid that has not been given, the social activities in which you have not been able to take part, or the job that you may not have had the opportunity to look after. And I actually think we have a responsibility to get the money right first and to spend it on it. There are many reasons, I think, but I think it may require a greater discussion of what is then the cause and what is the effect, and therefore also the proposal that we discuss it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164258	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164259	At any rate, we in the Danish People's Party have worked very hard to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in this area. But then I would like to ask the rapporteur something else, because today, as the rapporteur knows, this is the way it is, because we ourselves have been sitting with what we have negotiated with patients' compensations, that people who are mistreated in our health system can receive compensation, compensation. People who are mistreated in our social system get nothing. They can't even get compensation. Well, that's what reality is, and then I just think you should think about: Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164336-2	I have listened well to the fact that DF's rapporteur would like to make that comparison, but I may not think it is entirely reasonable. So there is a slight difference between the fact that you might get the amputated the wrong leg and that you have to spare help until the Ankestyrelsen has told the municipality that it now has to make sure that this citizen gets help. In fact, one part cannot be compensated for, but after all it is possible for the other. And then it is true that the fact that you have experienced being violated in the form of not having received help for a period of time is a problem that we must seek to resolve, but I think we should resolve it by avoiding it happening in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164415	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who is now being given the floor as the last in the series of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226164439	In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is reasonable for citizens who are successful in a complaint against the municipality to be granted compensation. The Danish People's Party has previously put forward proposals for suspensive effect, and thank God we had a majority on certain paragraphs, specifically section 3a of the Service Act, which retains its help for 14 weeks until the matter has been dealt with in the Ankestyrelsen, so that you do not suddenly have no help. Unfortunately, however, the problem has not been resolved. For example: After all, we have seen patients like als patients who have not been able to get proper help or help hours to make everyday life work. And the municipalities decide every day according to the Social Services Act on matters relating to the elderly and vulnerable citizens, people with disabilities, it may be in cases of home help, personal care and similar care, and in a number of cases the decision means that the citizen loses all or part of the good that the citizen has had so far, but it may also be that the citizen has been given home help and that the municipality then decides to reduce home help to half. It may also be that you do not get the help you are entitled to. So the proposal, in its simplicity, is that the government should put forward legislative proposals or make the necessary changes to administrative regulations, so that compensation can be paid to citizens who are successful in the Ankestyrelsen. The municipality must decide on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the citizen's situation on the basis of the legislation in force. We have adopted the Danish map in collaboration with the Danish movement pool, and the last statements show that the conversion rates in the Ankestyrelsen in the social, children's and adult disabled areas are far too high, in the children's handicap area it has risen from 46 per cent. in 2016 to 52 per cent. in 2017. So far too many of these cases are being reversed, and that's a challenge. I also remember a case from the past, where a ceiling had been set on how much one would give to relief, but one cannot. You cannot set a ceiling on how many days of relief you can grant a family that needs help, because then you do not make the individual assessment. There are also examples that families who wanted to train the child at home were told that they used it in their municipality. And the reality is that the economy of the municipalities can be a factor that influences the decision when the municipalities have to have the economy linked together, and I fully agree that we also have a responsibility to look at the budget law or to create a new equalisation system. However, it is important that we look after the interests of the citizens. We know that many of these decisions are at odds with legislation. It's not just in the child and disability cases. We have also seen it in the past in connection with, among other things, sickness benefits. If the citizen is not in agreement or satisfied with the municipal decision, the citizen may appeal against the decision to the municipality, where the matter is then reviewed, and if the municipality maintains its decision, the municipality will forward the complaint and the file to the Ankestyrelsen, which will then deal with the matter. That is why we believe that it is right for the citizen to be granted this compensation when the citizen is successful in his complaint, also because, as a citizen, he has had to suffer from the wrong decision of the municipality and has had to do without the help he was entitled to. Of course, the authority which has taken the decision must also pay the compensation. This is going to serve two purposes. Firstly, it must be a plaster on the wound to the citizen, in that the citizen has not had access to, or has lacked, the good during the appeal period, and secondly, it must be a signal to the municipalities to be more careful in making the right decision in the first place. A compensation scheme we believe will help create an economic incentive for the municipality to make the right decision in the first place. Of course, compensation must not replace any compensation or other, but it must be fair in relation to the good that the citizen has lacked and in relation to the time that the citizen has lacked the good. I have heard a great many politicians in here at Christiansborg say that sanctions must be imposed when the municipalities do not comply with the law. That is why I also have the expectation that, in this Parliament, when wrong decisions have been made in the local government and the citizen has been upheld in his complaint, the citizen would then be compensated for it, also in relation to the sense of justice. At the moment there is actually a trial. It is the case that Justitia and the Lawyer's Society have gone to court, and I would like to read from an article in Justitia about it: Should you be able to receive financial compensation if the municipality mistakenly refuses or deprives a citizen of non-financial assistance such as home help, accompaniment, care or the like, and the Ankestyrelsen subsequently reschedules the municipality's decision? In fact, Justitia and the Lawyers' Association, who, in cooperation with Mads Pramming, have chosen to go to court with a case of a disabled girl, where the municipality had wrongly deprived her of her accompaniment for swimming at the age of 18. The family had been successful on several occasions in their complaints to the Ankestyrelsen, but only after prolonged tuggggery did the girl finally succeed in having her companionship reinstated. However, the erroneous decisions of the municipality in the case meant that for a very long period the girl could not come to swimming and that the family had to spend holidays and days off to help. As it is today, citizens in these cases cannot normally be compensated by the municipality, as the citizen has not suffered any financial loss as a result of the wrong decision. However, the citizen has lost, as is the case in this case with the handicapped girl, a welfare benefit to which he or she was otherwise entitled. ▪ I look forward very much to seeing what the decision on this matter will end up with, because I think that if this one ends up to the benefit of the citizen, we will at least have to react to it from a political point of view here. I would, of course, like to thank the Enhedslisten and the Alternative for once again supporting this resolution. I agree that the right decision must be taken in the first place, but the reality is that this is not always what is happening. It is right that we should also be able to get compensation for what we have had to lack. So I am really sorry that there is no greater support for this. I can then mention that 55 people voted against last time, in this Chamber, and 47 people voted in favour, so I had hoped that it would succeed this time. Another thing I want to say is that I fully agree that we have made a great many good agreements to strengthen legal certainty, but some of what we have been sitting around the table and discussing was also about strengthening the procedure. The Danish People's Party had also wanted it to be mandatory with task force, so that the municipalities who lived out with many errors should not only have the offer of a task force, they had to have a mandatory task force in order to improve their handling. We achieved it in a similar way. We found a solution of this kind, but it is of course a question of ensuring that good procedures are carried out, and if this does not happen in the municipalities, we will have to help the municipalities to ensure that this happens. But I would like to thank you for your treatment today, and then I will have to fight on in other ways. Many of the proposals put forward by the Danish People's Party have been made over and over again after a few years, and at some point it has succeeded in obtaining a majority. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165344	There is one brief comment. Sir. Orla Sea, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165348	I would just like to ask for the calculation that lies behind Dansk Folkeparti's expectation of what this will amount to. It would be nice enough to know what kind of disk is going to be hit. I would ask the rapporteur to try to dedicate us to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165411-2	Yeah, that's interesting. How much does it cost to deliver the service you were supposed to provide? I do not see that it would cost anything at all, because the municipal side today, as a result of the Service Act, has to provide a certain service, for which one is dut-compensated. There are also agreements with the government and KL every year. So the calculation requested by the rapporteur is self-evident. When you've been dut-compensated for something in an agreement and you don't keep it, you've made something on that part. So I can't see that it's gonna cost you anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165458	Sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165500	I don't think I'm gonna agree with that equation, but it's gonna be. So I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party has taken the initiative to raise this issue as a support party to the government and as a result has been able to get through with its wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165519	Yeah, we've done that in several rounds, but it's a little interesting that sir. Orla Hav asks the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party to answer the cost of complying with the law. Yes, how much does it cost to comply with the law? That is a very interesting question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165537	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If there is no objection, then it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165552	We open with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226165617	Thank you for the floor. It is a motion for a resolution which instructs the government to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations to make the necessary legislative changes so that parents of children with disabilities during short stays abroad can exchange the relief to which they have been searched under Section 84 of the Services Act. 1, refer to section 44, for a cash amount equal to the amount of aid granted under Section 41 of the Service Act. In the past, we have discussed the possibility that children's parents with disabilities may benefit from relief abroad. I would like to start by saying that I fully understand the intentions, good intentions contained in the motion for a resolution that we are going to discuss today, but unfortunately the government cannot support the proposal and let me say a few words about why. Firstly, I would like to start by reviewing the various forms of relief, because it is important for why the government cannot support the proposal. Thus, the purpose of relief according to section 84 of the Service Act, according to § 44, is that the family should have a breathing space in everyday life, where they should not take care of their child with disabilities. This type of relief is thus given in cases where the child is so caring that it presents challenges for the rest of the family to find space and profits for other common activities when the child is present. This relief is therefore granted in the interests of the rest of the family, for example. because parents need time to care for a sibling or need time alone without having to care for and care for the child with disability. The relief is therefore typically provided here in the form of the municipality providing a place in a relief family or at a 24-hour institution either a few hours a week, or it could be one or two full days, or it could also be weekends during the month. So relief is given as a so-called benefit, where it is therefore the municipality which must vouch for the quality of the place of relief. It will therefore typically be a matter of care needs, which require special conditions and perhaps also some special physical framework to meet, and it should not be the parents' responsibility to ensure this, even during a vacation abroad. Today, it is a municipal responsibility without discussion to ensure the quality of relief in situations where care for the child must take place outside the family framework precisely in order to create this breathing space for the rest of the family. The way to organise the aid is important for me to hold on to to ensure that the child with disabilities gets the right help and support. For example, it may be difficult for the child to communicate, and therefore it is important that the reliever knows the child and the child's way of communicating. It may also be that the child needs special care, for example. in relation to the child's medicine, which makes it important that the right competences are present at relief. Therefore, it is difficult for me to see how parents can get money in hand to buy themselves for relief, so that they can meet the needs of the child. In addition to the fact that families have the possibility to take subsidies to cover additional costs when employing a person to relieve the burden under Article 41 of the Services Act abroad, there are already a number of other opportunities for help and support for families with children with disabilities during holidays abroad. For example, you can include aids, disabled cars and help to cover lost earnings, which can provide the family with the help and support they need in order to travel on holiday, for example. A week. In conclusion, I would like to sum up briefly that the government cannot support the proposal, because the purpose of the relief according to § 84, according to § 44, is to give the family a breathing space where the child with disabilities is thus cared for and cared for outside the home in a place that the municipality has chosen and stands for. Therefore, it is difficult to see that this benefit can be taken abroad because it will require that the municipality or parents can, for that matter, vouch for the quality of relief and thus also ensure that the child receives sufficient professionally qualified help and care during relief abroad. It is absolutely crucial for me that we ensure that children with disabilities receive the right help and support during the relief, and that is why the government chooses to stick to the fact that the aid must be provided as a benefit in kind, where it is the municipality that ensures the quality of relief. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170048	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170052	It is simply a mystery to me that the government cannot support this. We have heard examples of families who cannot take their child who has a disability on holiday, but the family can get a relief offer or a relief family available, and so they can go on holiday themselves. I simply do not understand that. So, in the end, if you think about finance, it must be cheaper to give parents a cash allowance, and there are no parents who want to leave their child at home. In other words, those who have the opportunity and where the child can will at any time take the child on vacation, so that the child also gets vacation with the rest of the family. So it is just a mystery to me that the government cannot support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170156	Well, I'd like to elaborate on that. As a minister, I do not want to take responsibility for giving families the money in hand instead of an allowance in respect of which the municipality has assessed what competences are needed to ensure the right relief and then just rely on that relief also being the right one. I can just see the headlines for me. Well, I can see the headlines for me, where this change from sickness benefit to money in hand means that a child with disabilities is abandoned, that is, because there is a relief on holiday that does not have the necessary and the relevant skills. I am worried about that, and I am just saying quite frankly that this is what makes it very difficult for me to see that it is possible to make this change from sickness insurance to a sum of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170250	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170252	But then I have a solution. We can then, in relation to the relief competence, demand that if you use the cash grant to buy relief help, you must ensure that there are the right qualifications among those who are involved. Anyway, there are no families who want to bring a relief that you don't think is good for the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170327	You can't impose that on the families. In other words, the families will of course want the best for their child. There is no doubt about that, but it cannot be the families who should be able to make a professional assessment of whether a reliever has the relevant skills; it must be some who have a professional, professional understanding of it here. Then I have to say that I am very surprised that new proposals are being put on the table, because we have discussed this many times. We discussed it in the spring when we had a motion for a resolution similar to this proposal very much. We also discussed it in the autumn, when I raised the same concerns and the same objections that I find it very difficult to see that it can be done in a good way. Now, there will be an amendment, but perhaps I would have liked it to have been taken at the time when the negotiations were there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170414	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170417	Thank you. I can sometimes doubt whether we are really talking about the same situations. For example, the minister says that relief is intended to give the family a breathing space, meaning that if you want to take the child on holiday, you have made a decision not to have this breathing space. But it could, for example. just be something as simple as a dinner sleep, which is necessary every day, and which allows the family to go out to bathe or do something during that time. If the Minister looked away from those concerns as to whether one could have the professional skills with him, if one could really find the professional skills that were necessary in terms of relief, and imagined that this would be possible, would the Minister help to find a solution so that families could also take their children with disabilities on holiday?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170513	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170515	I think we all really want to do everything we can to ensure that families who have a child with disabilities are safe. That is also why, over the years, we have set aside a great deal of money both to strengthen the case management in the field of disability and to ensure that we take care of those families. Now dinner sleep is mentioned as an example. I can only say that another example may be the medicine that the child needs and which is absolutely vital. I just see that there are some things that give rise to really great concerns and that cause the warning lights to blink, and I can see the headlines, and I am expressing those concerns here. I would also just like to say that we have been discussing a similar proposal in the spring, and we have also discussed relief in the course of the debate on the pool of rates this autumn. So summa summarum: There is no doubt that we all want the best for those families who have a child with disabilities, but they must also be solid and durable solutions so that we do not end up actually putting those families worse than they could actually have been.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170622	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170623	Now we are constantly talking about money that needs to be exchanged, or at least that is how the Minister talks about it. What if you just imagine that it is the municipality that already hires people for relief, which also hires the person who has to relieve the family on vacation? In any case, we have solved the problem of competence; we have also still created air in the family so that you can be relieved even if you bring a child with disabilities on holiday. Could that be a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170657-2	After all, I am dealing with the specific motion for a resolution which is now before us, and it is a resolution which proposes that the relief that you are receiving today as benefits in kind should be available in the hands of money, so that you can go out and hire a reliever yourself when you go on holiday abroad. That is what I am dealing with, and here I am just saying that there are at least some professional concerns that are pressing, and I can at least see the newspaper headlines for me that risk coming because there have not been the right competences in the relief that is being granted, and in the end you want to ask the politicians to answer why it is not ensured that the relief given as a benefit was well-qualified and that the reliever had the right skills to handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170744	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteur's line, and in front of it is Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226170802	I very much agree with the Minister when she says that she believes that this is a matter of concern to us all. And we have great emotions about the fact that there are families that have to go through a great deal by having a disabled child. So it is certainly not a lack of respect for the life situation that many of these families must tolerate, which is the reason for our position on this matter. We really want to help the families, and we also think that the municipal world, which is primarily responsible for this task, should be best equipped to deal with it. If, however, we do not want to support the specific proposal to take aid abroad, even during shorter periods abroad, then it is because we have to ask: what are we opening up to? Are they alone children with a certain type of disability? Are we also talking about children who are in special education and who in many ways have a behavior that makes you feel tired at night as a parent? Or are only groups using wheelchairs, or where are we in the whole field? And is it a Danish assistant that you send abroad? Must he comply with Danish standards and working hours, etc.? And then there is everything that concerns the Minister, namely the professional expertise with which he must be equipped and able to handle a child. We think it raises a great many issues. Then there is the whole problem of conversion, that is to say, having to finance part of your holiday by getting an amount of money from the government to spend a holiday abroad. In other words, we must think very carefully about how the public sees justice in the use of public funds. So we think it raises a large number of open questions which have not been clarified at all and we are not prepared to support this resolution, which the Danish People's Party is now resubmitting. But this is certainly not because we do not understand the life situation in which many families find themselves. And in this context, we would very much like to help both improve their life situation and help ensure that the necessary expertise is present in our own system. And that's probably where we are on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171115	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171117	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that it is reasonable to treat parents who have a child with disabilities, and whether taking vacations depends on the paragraph on which they are searched. Or does the rapporteur think that it is reasonable for parents to be able to take their child with disabilities on vacations?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171143-2	I believe that a great many parents who have a child with a disability will go a long way to treat the child in line with the other children they may have and try to integrate the child into the holiday that the family is now taking. But we also need to look at the justification for handing them out of the public sector. It is precisely to help ensure that there is professionalism and that there is justice about the way we deal with the area and an understanding in the rest of society that this is the way we use our common funds. And we do not think that we are reassured by the proposal that lies here from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171235	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171237	So am I to understand the rapporteur's reply that the rapporteur believes that it is fair to say that some parents cannot go on holiday with their child with a disability because they are searched on the wrong paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171253	I'm not taking a stand on paragraphs. I take the view that we do not think that this motion for a resolution falls within the scope of the dial and fulfils the purpose which the proposers seem to have with it, or that what to say is within the professional standard we have in our society, in order to provide help in the given situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171321	Thank you, sir. Orla Sea. Next in line, sir. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171333	Thank you. Like everyone else, I think I would also like to start by emphasising that we have very much sympathy for the agenda that the Danish People's Party is bringing up here, namely to improve conditions for families with children with disabilities. But I also have some fundamental reservations about the Danish People's Party's proposal, as it is before me. First of all, I am concerned about the quality of the aid and care that the child will be able to receive during relief, and that is what we are talking about, in other words, under the relief of the remaining part of the family during a holiday abroad. For the relief of the family is, of course, given in the nature of the matter, in order that the family of the child with a disability may have a breathing space. And as I understand it, this happens typically by the fact that the municipality then provides a space with a relief family or an institution for a shorter or a little longer period of time. And that means that the relief has a form which in itself has some quality requirements. It is the municipality which is responsible for ensuring that the quality, care and care of the child in these breathing spaces have a sufficiently high quality. And there I can be a little worried about whether a fellow traveler's helper, in quotation marks, after the paragraphs we are talking about here, can meet the requirements that we would normally make exactly in this field. Secondly, and in addition to this, the introduction of a scheme such as the one exactly proposed here by the Danish People's Party will break with a more general principle behind the benefits in kind provided by the Service Act, which is about ensuring that it is the municipal authorities that are responsible for the individual citizen and, in this case, the individual child gets the help and support that he or she needs. In other words, regardless of how you turn and turn the Danish People's Party's proposal here, it will still be the municipality that has to measure the quality to be offered to the individual. Thirdly, the proposal will probably lead to increased expenditure, as it currently does. is a little bit difficult to account for the extent of. So even though we in the Left have great sympathy for the intentions behind the proposal from DF, there are a number of such more fundamental issues associated with the proposal, which we immediately read as we read the proposal that the Danish People's Party has put forward here... find it difficult to see a way out of why we unfortunately have to reject the proposal. And I say that on behalf of the Left, but also on behalf of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171615	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171618	After all, you are talking a lot about quality and the demands that are being made today, and then I think the rapporteur from the platform should tell us what are the demands that are being made today in terms of relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171634	These are the demands that we have jointly decided to make in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171645	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171645-2	If we now refer to all the demands today and to quality and relief and things like that, then we must be able to justify what it is for some requirements we believe will be lacking if we provide a cash grant in relation to that staff. Because it is the case today that there is side training for staff when you are hired somewhere. I do not know if the rapporteur is aware of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171708	Yes, but there are requirements when you have some type of institution that you use as a relief institution or if there is a family that serves as a relief family. And it is, as I can read from the Danish People's Party's proposal here, not concrete in relation to what kind of quality it is that should lie with a helper. In other words, I am starting from the situation we are seeing today, namely that if you need relief, it takes place in a relief family or in an institution where there are some quality criteria associated with it. I do not read anything about this in the Danish People's Party's proposal in relation to voluntary helpers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171747	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen and pass the baton on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226171753	Thank you. The proposal follows on from the discussion we had in this Chamber last year on access for parents of children with disabilities to include relief aid for short stays abroad. It is of course interesting to compare the arguments against the proposal here with the arguments against the proposal put forward a year ago. The Minister referred to the fact that it was benefits in kind, etc., and then said that there were some challenges which the Minister saw as impossible or, at least, almost impossible to solve, even though he planned his stay abroad very carefully, and then the Minister went on to say: "It makes it difficult in itself to take relief abroad, unlike if there had been a cash benefit, that is to say money in the hand, which could be taken without further ado. ▪ It was the argument for rejecting the last year, that is, a benefit could not be taken into account, as opposed to if it had been money. That is why I understand that the Danish People's Party has tabled the proposal. I do not think this is the best solution, I would say. I may not think that the authors of the motion do, but if you could not include the allowance and you could not include the aid, because it was apparently impossible and it was then from an economic point of view, we can read further down in the Minister's speech from last year. However, it was another possibility to give a cash sum so that you could actually buy the aid yourself. I very much agree that it is good to make some demands on who is providing such relief so that the aid is as qualified as possible, but I have to say that the argument that comes from both the Minister and some of the rapporteurs here is a complete circle. One cannot first argue that people cannot take the help with it and that it has to be a cash benefit in order for it to be possible, and then, when it is proposed that a cash benefit be provided, it is said that it is not possible to change a benefit for a sum of money. I would say that that argument simply does not stand up. Perhaps you should do it ^ it's just a consideration that you looked at the proposal here, we would like to contribute to that, and took note of the point that we should have called for a debate on the issue. Because we risk this being rejected with the opposite argument than the one with which the previous proposal was rejected. Let us now concentrate on the fact that there seems to be a consensus that we have a problem here, because it is crazy that the public would like to pay relief if the family left without their child. Then you're willing to pay, but if it's the case that the family really wants to go together, then there's no compensation. So something's wrong. So maybe we could move on by gathering together a proposal... I don't know if we can do it like we cut a little, so that we instructed the minister to call for negotiations on the issue. We could then have an opportunity to discuss whether this is not a circular argument on the part of both the Minister and some of the rapporteurs, and then perhaps go a little bit to the point. So I would say: let us, however, call for negotiations on the matter. We really think that the proposal put forward last year was better than the proposal before us at that time. We understand that the proposers have now tried to go another way, but are we not going to try to get the minister to be called for a debate? We can then discuss the substance instead of playing kispus with each other, which I think is a little something about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172211	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. And right after Enhedslisten's rapporteur comes Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172218	Thank you. And from here too a thank you to the Danish People's Party. After all, it is a debate which has not been so long since we last had, and since the last time we have asked questions and worked on it. I have also been concerned about this issue, which is why it is gratifying that there is agreement in here that perhaps something is not optimal. For exactly as Enhedslisten mentioned, it makes no sense at all that you can get paid relief if you leave without your child, but if you want to bring the child, you get nothing. I understand what the Minister says, that if you have been granted this benefit and there have been clear restrictions on what it should be able to do, if you have to live up to medical care or anything else, then you cannot just change it for cash and then take your grandmother with you. It doesn't make sense. But what we like to weave a little about here is: How can we ensure that you are on holiday if you are a family with a child who is searched according to section 84 of the Service Act, where you are searched for a relief from a so-called sickness benefit? That is, of course, the question we would like to have clarified, that is, how to deal with it. Because if, for example, you're gonna have to... If you have searched for 15 hours a week, you cannot fly in for 15 hours a week. So there's some challenge in how that family gets on vacation. You want Mom and Dad to handle this on their own? In some cases, it may be possible to do so, and probably many families today do. Then you say no to relief that week, and then Mom and Dad will make it. But if there are two other children in the family, can it be difficult to be on vacation, and should Mom and Dad pay for himself, or what are the options? So we are in a situation where there is some desire to try to find out what can be done, but there are also some professional considerations which the Minister has examined and which I also think are relevant. And perhaps this motion for a resolution does not quite hit the mark, but there are at least some considerations to go further in relation to the intention behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172456	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172458	The motion for a resolution does not quite hit the mark, but it is, I would just like to remind you, just put forward, because there has been a discussion in this Chamber about whether it could be better supported if the money followed the child, and then we thought in the Danish People's Party that we would find another solution. Because when there is no support for our first resolution, we listen to what several of the rapporteurs say in this Chamber, and then we make a new resolution. But our wish on the part of the Danish People's Party is that even if you have a child with disabilities, you should also be able to take it with you, for example. A week's vacation, just like others can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172543	It is a very, very legitimate wish to have, and it is a wish that we in the Liberal Alliance share. What's the way there? It seems to be really difficult. It is in some way difficult because you have to mess with both professionalism and other things that make it just not easy to convert a benefit into money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172618	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172619	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees with the aim of allowing families with a child with disabilities to go on holiday, and what will the rapporteur do? Will the rapporteur now ensure and support the fact that the Minister will have to convene some negotiations on this so that we can resolve this challenge? Because if it is that a majority supports the intention behind the motion for a resolution, then we must find good solutions together rather than always shooting down solutions. I would have liked it to be said here from Parliament's platform, including the Minister, that we are trying to put ourselves together and find solutions rather than shooting it down. Unfortunately, this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172709	No, it doesn't always happen that way. We share the intention, and I would also like to think about how this could be worked together. I also heard Enhedslisten offer to do that, and then we will see how far we can go along that road.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172731	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. Then it's mr. Julius Graakjær Grantzau, Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226172741	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. This is another excellent proposal, which is about finding opportunities and finances for parents of children with disabilities to benefit from relief if they take the child in question with them during a temporary stay abroad, and this is therefore a holiday in particular. This is the second time that this proposal has been put forward in the Folketing, and the last time it came up, the alternative supported it. Now the proposal comes in another variant where the financing of the scheme is more clearly indicated, so the alternative of course supports it again. We think it is a good solution to make the necessary legislative changes so that in future it is possible for parents of children with disabilities to exchange the relief to which they are searched according to section 84 of the Services Act. 1, refer to Section 44, to a cash amount corresponding to the aid granted under Section 41 of the Services Act. This will allow the parents of a child with disabilities to buy the necessary help on holiday abroad and thus have the opportunity to take a holiday as a single family. In short, parents can use the money that society should have spent on caring for the child with disabilities at home while the parents were on holiday to buy help on the holiday so that the child can come down. Now I am not such a direct rapporteur in this area and I am here instead of our rapporteur, Torsten Gejl, but I have just given some thought to what has been said in the Chamber today, and indeed share many of the thoughts that come from, among others. Liberal Alliance, the intentions and considerations of this proposal. But something that I do not share is something that I heard from the Social Democrat rapporteur, that is to say, you are afraid of what citizens will do with this money they get in their hands. There, in the alternative, we have a different attitude and a confidence that it can be managed in a good way, and it really seems that this can help solve something that can help families find a solution that can help them on holiday. So that is not the kind of concern we share. Then the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten also mentioned something about this circular argument, as it was called, where, when I sit down here, it actually seems as if there is quite broad support for the proposal, and I wonder where it is precisely that one does not agree. It certainly sounds as if there is quite a lot of support for it. Of course, I would also be able to find myself, and I can do so here too, a comma or some other things that I cannot agree with and that might have been done differently. But I certainly do not think that should stand in the way of supporting this proposal. One consideration that we have also made, and this was also pointed out by a question from the rapporteur for the SF, is whether it can be imagined that families can get the concrete help they need, rather than a fixed amount, that the aid could be individually organized in cooperation between families and municipalities. I did not quite hear the Minister's reply to that, but it may be that it is one of the things that has been discussed in the past, for which there was no majority either. Finally, it makes sense and value to work for children with disabilities to be with the family when the family is going on holiday. So we would very much like to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173126	Thank you, sir. Julius Graakjær Grantzau. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173132	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal and for continuing to pursue the issue in relation to the fact that families should have the opportunity to take their children on holiday. I find it unfortunate that families with children who need special social education support cannot take holidays on an equal footing with other families with children. Today it is not possible to take relief abroad, which is why parents must take over relief, which at worst can take the attention of other children in the family on holiday. At the same time, many take a vacation to charge the batteries after a busy day, and it can be difficult when you have to give a little extra care to your child with disabilities. Unfortunately, there are also families who simply have to choose the solution which has also been mentioned: simply leave the child with disabilities at home from the holiday and leave the child at a place of relief paid by the municipality, by the way. I do not think that the money follows the child principle is the best solution. I think this is the second best solution, and I also agree with Enhedslisten when Enhedslisten points out that now the Minister actually owes a reply. I think it would be okay to return to the original proposal from the Danish People's Party, which was, of course, about seeing instead of having the opportunity to take social pedagogy support on holiday. That would make a great deal of sense to me. But in the absence of any better, the SF is also supporting this proposal. We believe that families with children with disabilities have the right to take holidays on an equal footing with all other families.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173316	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, and welcome the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173338	Thank you and yes, she does! First of all, thank you for Enhedslisten's speech... also thanks to the Alternative and to the SF, which also had some good points for Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Jakob Silverhøj, is absolutely right in many of the things he said in his rapporteur's speech. And precisely in relation to this, I think we should read the motion for a resolution, which states: "The Danish Parliament will require the government to convene parties of the Danish Parliament by February 2019 at the latest to negotiate the necessary legislative changes so that parents of children with disabilities during short periods of stay abroad can exchange the relief to which they have been searched according to section 84 of the Service Act. 1, cf. For today, if you are searched for the additional cost benefit according to § 41, you can get the money. So that's the part we need to find a solution to. And we want it to be possible for parents who care for a child or a young person with a disability to be given relief. And the reason why we have adjusted the motion for a resolution is precisely because, as I said in my question, it was said in this Chamber: if it was a cash sum, it was something else, and then we could find a solution. And then we in the Danish People's Party feel that, rather than stand on the platform and then just blow everything down, we want to find some solutions, and then we come up with some suggestions to find those solutions. Then it is not true what the Minister said, because this is what we have raised in the negotiations. We also raised this in the pool of rates in order to find a solution. Repeatedly, we raised this under the pool of rates to find a solution so that families who have a child with a disability can also bring their child on holiday. Then I would like to read from the article to which I referred earlier from 2017: Help must not be taken abroad. A family with a child with disabilities can receive one week's relief paid by the municipality, but not receive the help provided in everyday life, on family holidays abroad. Is that fair? I just think that we politicians should ask ourselves the question: is that fair or do we want to find a solution? If a majority in this House would like to find a solution, I think the Minister should call us so that we can sit down and negotiate constructively on it. We have also asked questions about the economic calculations, and these are things for which we are always held responsible. There, however, the Minister has replied that it is not possible to assess whether it would be related to less public expenditure to offer assistance under Section 44 of the Service Act to a family with a disabled child under, for example, a short-term holiday. I mean, you can't answer that in relation to the cost. And if you think about what it will cost a child to be in a relief offer rather than to be able to get help with the family, I do not see that that is what it should be about. In my optics, it's all about bringing your child on holiday as a family, of course, whether it's disabled or not. And it must be our first task in here to find a solution to it. I would like to sign for the good speeches that have been made where you have said that you want to find a solution. But what I think is untrue on the part of several of the parties of the Folketing is that we are making every effort to find reasons why we should not at least support this proposal. And the minister gets a lot of arguments from his official work... find me some arguments, so I can put it down rather than say: How do we find solutions in this area? Because we really want to find some solutions. And I just think it is really a pity that it should be so in a political debate that you cannot sit down and find solutions for them, it should benefit and here it is about families who have a child with disabilities. Then it seems completely illogical that you can get a relief offer and leave your child at home, but that you cannot get the help on holiday. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173810	There is a brief comment from Mr. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173814	Let me return to the question that I did not get an answer to during the debate on the previous resolution. It is indeed the case that the Danish People's Party is in a quite favourable position, namely by helping to ensure that the government has a majority at all. I should like to ask Mrs Karina Adsbøl if this is something that has been included in the discussions of the Danish People's Party as a condition for providing the necessary mandates for a financial law to come into being.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173849	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173849-2	I am very sorry that the rapporteur did not hear what I said in my speech. I said that we also raised this at the negotiating table under a pool of rates. Now I know that there are some pool rapporteurs who might remember that. I think that at least Mrs Laura Lindahl will remember that this was a heated debate during those debates. And so it is in the Danish People's Party that we do not make ultimate demands. We come up with proposals to find solutions to the challenges we want to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173922	Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173924	I think the rapporteur misunderstands what kind of table I imagine this is being set up at. If this was something that the Danish People's Party really wanted to solve, then it was at the big negotiating table on the Financial Law Agreement. It is there that the Danish People's Party has its maximum influence. Is that something that the Danish People's Party has taken up there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226173944	Yes, we have taken it up at the negotiating table, as I have just said, under the pool of rates, where, as rapporteur for the disabled, I was sitting at the table. After all, the rate pool is part of the overall package in relation to the Finance Act, but it is interesting that Mr. Orla Hav asks such questions when he knows that the Danish People's Party has raised it at the negotiating table. Something else is that you could ask Mr. Orla Sea, how many resolutions the Social Democratic Party has tabled in this Chamber for the benefit of people with disabilities. Not one, I think. Yeah, maybe one, but then they pulled it, so there wasn't a majority anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174025	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Deep silence. I see it as no one wants to speak. That is why the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174112	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Education and Research. Welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174129	Thank you for the floor. Today we are debating a proposal for an educational programme targeted at the democracy and human rights struggle of foreign student activists. The proposers want to require the government to establish, before the end of the 2018-19 parliamentary year, a Danish education programme to grant foreign student activists who, in a non-violent way, are fighting for democracy and human rights in their home countries, a full education grant and permission to study in Denmark if they are exposed to, for example. persecution, discrimination or exclusion from their education in their home countries. The reason for this proposal is that Denmark, as a democratic country, has a responsibility to support the struggle of foreign student activists for democracy and human rights in their countries of origin if, because of their struggle, they are subjected, for example, to the struggle of foreign student activists. persecution, discrimination or exclusion from their education. The intentions behind the proposal are sympathetic, and I believe that we are all concerned across parties with supporting democracy and human rights as well as students' opportunities for higher education. However, when the government cannot support the proposal, it is due to several factors. There is already a system which allows skilled students from countries outside the EU or the EEA, including countries in crisis, to come to Denmark and complete their education at a Danish university. The universities can grant foreign students a full or partial scholarship, which covers tuition fees and living costs in connection with the completion of a bachelor or Master's degree programme at a Danish university through the so-called free space and scholarship scheme. It is the universities themselves that are responsible for the provision and administration of free places and scholarships. It gives the university relatively free framework in relation to the selection of the foreign students. It is, of course, a prerequisite that foreign students are professionally qualified according to university rules and standards, and that grants are awarded to the best qualified professionals, but universities themselves define the professional criteria for quota 2 and 3 admissions which students from third countries typically enter through and for the admission of candidates. Here, universities can stress that students have a drive to change the world, as I believe student activists do. So if, for example, a university becomes aware through their collaborators of a professionally qualified student who is excluded from home education or otherwise persecuted because of student activity, they have the opportunity to encourage the student to apply for admission and request a free space and a scholarship in Denmark. Of course, this presupposes that the student applies for and is admitted to the programme in Denmark on an equal footing with other applicants. I am aware that the current framework and grant possibilities do not allow the proposed programme to be introduced one by one, but I do not see any reason to set up a completely new system when the universities today, if they so wish, have the opportunities that I have just described. In addition, the specific experience of the Norwegian pilot programme referred to by the proposers does not yet provide us with a solid basis for assessing whether the scheme is working properly. The institutions and students involved in the scheme in Norway are generally satisfied. However, I have noted that in June 2018, Norway's Minister for Foreign Affairs indicated that, in the light of the experience gained so far from Norway, there is no basis for assessing that the "Students at the Risk" programme is a good mechanism for supporting democracy and human rights. The Minister for Foreign Affairs refers here to the fact that there are too few students who have completed the programme and that only two students who have completed it at that time have returned home. My ministry has been in dialogue with Norway about developments since last summer, and there are now 12 students who have completed an education. The Norwegian educational authorities state that they do not have any more concrete information about how many students have gone home and how many remain in Norway, as they do not follow the course of the students after completed education. The third is that the government is already doing a lot to support democracy and human rights in the neighbourhood. Development aid grants are made for the work of a number of organisations aimed at human rights and democracy in developing countries. For example, 60 million have been set aside. kr. in 2019 for a programme aimed partly at long-term research cooperation and partly at shorter stays for partners from Danish priority countries. There are also shorter courses for officials from countries with which Denmark has a strategic sectoral cooperation. Most of the training courses have a duration of 3 months. In addition, human rights and democracy are addressed as one of several issues in a wide range of bilateral programmes and in cooperation with several multilateral organisations. So to sum up: I certainly believe that it is important to support the fight for democracy and human rights, but I do not think that the best way to do that is by setting up a Danish education programme targeted a specific group of students. Today there is already a scheme which allows universities to grant free places with or without a scholarship to foreign students. At the same time, the government supports democracy and human rights in a number of other areas under development aid. Finally, I am aware that the Norwegian Foreign Minister has stated that there is still no basis for assessing whether the Students that the Risk Programme is a good mechanism for promoting human rights. The government cannot therefore, overall, support proposals for parliamentary resolution no. B 79. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174727	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174731	Thank you for the speech and the positive words after all. I am well aware of the scholarship programme referred to by the Minister, for I myself, when I was a minister, and that is of great interest, I think that the Minister is using it as an opening point here. Of course, I've studied that, and I've been thinking, can we? I didn't think so. But now to stay in the constructive spirit I basically disagree with the minister that there is no need for any more: could we then look at the possibility of addressing the educational institutions in Denmark, now it is primarily universities here, and stress the importance of this programme of talents and scholarships allocated to it can be used specifically for this? And will the Minister help to expand the possibilities of the talent programme that the Minister already has?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226174844-2	Thank you. I know that the questioner was the initiator of the programme to which I refer. In fact, I think that the framework for this is fine. That's about. 45 million kr., we set off a year for the program, and if we look at some of the years that is, as far as I remember, 2014, 2015 and 2016 • there are actually some universities that have not used the whole framework, because it is the individual universities that are awarded a framework. The large universities have done what the small universities have done to a lesser extent. So there is actually room, because if we play with the idea that if it is five students and they cost approx. $200,000. Each, that's approx. 1 million kr. So in the framework that is already there is really room. That's one. Should more be done from the point of view of financing? It doesn't look like it's needed if you wanted to. The second is: should I or should we do something from a central point of view? In fact, I think it is a good thing that we have now created a framework whereby if universities would like to pursue something specific it could be a research cooperation, but it could also be this one, it is up to them to do so, and that is why I would urge them to do so. For example: I have noticed that in the program running in Norway, Schoolers that Risk is in fact one of the nomination partners that is to the Students at Risk programme. And I know that on February 18th this must have been last week... Scholars started to Risk... actually here in Denmark, but as a private initiative. So you could also have a dialogue with them and ask if, through their cooperation at Danish universities, they could just push on with the use of the scheme for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175016	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175017	Well, I already think it is so I would have just referred to the Scholars at Risk, which, when we drafted this motion for a resolution, was not even established in Denmark. But now it is established, launched at the University of Copenhagen last week. That is why I would just like to hope that it can actually be used for that, and I think I am listening to that. Because I am quite convinced that universities are not aware that the talent programme can be used in this way, and I am not quite sure whether the minister is opening up to the fact that it can actually be used as a "Students to Risk" programme. Well, it is clear that Norwegian experience is not that it changes democracy in the world. That would also be a great deal to demand, and that is not what we are asking for with this programme, but that we, like Norway, should take the lead and say: for students who take that fight, it is insanely important that there is an opportunity both to continue their activism, their struggle for democracy, but of course also to continue their studies, and of course to be very Danish, because that is what they are very often prevented from doing, because they have to elude a regime that suppresses them in this way. Yes, it is very often done in third countries. Unfortunately, we also see it within Europe's borders, and that is why we have launched the Schoolrs at Risk. There is just one university that has been banished from an EU Member State. So if the Minister would at least be involved in informing us about these opportunities we might be able to do that together, perhaps we could even do it from a collective conciliation group or from the rapporteur group it would be so beautiful.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175200	The questioner inspires me to maybe hang a big watch up the back. It could be a very good aid. It's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175209	Thanks for the constructive tone about this. I think what I want to say about that is that I think the framework is already there. And when I read about the intentions behind and about the existing programme and the financial framework, I actually find that I think that some of what you want here, namely to reach out to some students and ask if they want to come to Denmark and read, you can do within that framework. I'm just saying it's the university that has to decide to do it. We have to remember, and that is probably the crucial difference, that in schools that Risk is said that it is a qualification requirement in itself to be, for example. persecuted because of student activism. There we say that in the Danish system it does not disqualify, but neither does it qualify. It still has to be professionally qualified students, but we have no basis for saying that they are not. What we would like to do with an amendment to the Master's Order is to say that in the candidate's admission some other demands can be emphasised, and it might well be this. You are a qualified student if you get involved in democracy in your home country and want to go to a Danish university and read something about democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175310	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to the rapporteur's line and the first is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175327	I would like to start by saying that I have infinite respect for all the many young people who fight around the world, I would almost say daily, for democracy and for human rights. And just such a thing also reminds us how good it is to live in Denmark and how lucky we are. That is why I understand one hundred per cent of the purpose of this proposal, and I also have great sympathy for the intention of opening up our fantastic democratic society to a few of the many students who, in countries such as Egypt, Zimbabwe, Ethiopia and other third world countries, are fighting for a fairer world. I understand that it would be useful if it were possible to do so. I think the challenge with this resolution is that it may not be as much education policy as it is foreign policy or foreign policy. At least there are some things that get mixed up. And I don't think it belongs to this particular area, but I think that we should perhaps focus more on strengthening our own education programmes for the Danish and also foreign students who are already resident in this country and who are studying at our educational institutions. As Social Democratic Education Rapporteur, I would like to take the lead in the daily struggle for good conditions for the many students who are immatriculated in our educational institutions, and also for those employees who every day make a huge effort to drive forward an academic and professional agenda of very high quality, even though it is a modest framework in which they must gradually do so. In other words, right now, the institutions are really fighting a hard fight every day in Denmark to keep up the quality of their teaching, and we see and hear that institutions must close down educational paths, fire teachers and research staff, and it is infinitely sad that it has come to this. We just have a task ahead of us, and that is to ensure that students, both Danish and foreign, who are in Denmark and read for a shorter duration, get the best opportunities to become smarter and more skilled. At the same time, I also think it is my job as rapporteur for education to ensure that we have an education policy which is linked both economically and humanly. I do not believe that it is my job or the task of the Social Democratic Party to ensure that students from the world's hot spots are able to complete their education in Denmark, and therefore the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal. I think it is exceptionally important that we support and support the fight for democracy and human rights, of course, but we must do so through an active foreign policy. It must, of course, go down the road of diplomacy, so that we support the student uprisings around the world and the right of students to complete their education, as was also said by the proposers a short time ago. This is not to be done by means of a system which is unlikely to work as intended. I don't believe it. The Norwegian pilot project, to which the Minister also referred, has not been a very sustainable success as such. Perhaps you could ask yourself, on the other hand, whether this would mean that we would withdraw the particularly resourceful and talented young people who have their country of origin far from Denmark from a fight that might be fought better there than here at a Danish educational institution. The short thing is that the Social Democratic Party wants to keep its focus on the economic deterioration that the government is dragging down on our educational institutions and which leads to a reduction in quality. We will also continue to talk about and, moreover, work hard to find solutions for the many students who are impatriched by our educational institutions today, who are experiencing a damaging culture of performance and whom we can only do something about if it is the case that we get right the unfortunate financial situation with which they must all exist today. So to sum up: we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175747	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175752	In other words, can education, foreign, security and climate policies be completely separated from each other? We in the Radical Left do not think that we can always do that. This is about a small group. We're talking about five students a year, so it's hardly the big braindrain we're talking about here. However, we are talking about those who are precisely unable to complete their education, are unable to carry out their activism, which presumably has to stop where they are. And this is then an opportunity to support that activism. But what I really want to ask the rapporteur is the constructive tone of the Minister's speech and this talent programme, which we adopted together in the Social Democracy and Radical Left, and the possibility of the programme to which the Minister referred. Will the Social Democrats support the fact that it is being made clear that within this programme there is that possibility and that universities are taking advantage of it and, if necessary, separately calling on the candidate to place more emphasis on this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175906	As always, when it comes to our education policy, and especially with the group which, after all, is behind many of our existing educational framework, the Social Democrats will discuss these things, and they will be very happy to discuss them with rapporteurs from all other parties in the Folketing. I cannot say at this stage whether or not we support it, but it must of course be discussed. I am also aware of exactly the Scholars at Risk, which the University of Copenhagen has launched. I think it is commendable, and then I would like to refer to the Minister who also made it possible today, within the existing framework, for universities to do so themselves. I think it is exciting and would like to discuss it more in depth in a different forum than perhaps right here in the Chamber. At this stage and standing here, I cannot give an undertaking that we will support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226175953	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to Mrs Mette Reissmann, so I would like to welcome Mr Reissmann. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180010	Thank you and thank the Radicals for making the proposal. The signal and purpose of the proposal are sympathetic. I think we can all have sympathy for students who, in a non-violent way, are fighting for democracy and human rights in their own countries. If we now had a situation where we in Denmark hundred percent ourselves defined who we would give an education, whom we might want to invite to Denmark to take an education, well, then perhaps I could be inclined to say that we could work on this proposal. But we do not have 100% self-determination. We have just had to limit the number of English-language courses in order to try to define and manage the number of foreign students, and we did so precisely on the basis of an agreement with the authors of the proposed programmes, yes, in fact when the proposers' chairman, Morten Østergaard, was a minister in this area. We then reached an agreement on su, where we set a ceiling for the cost of su to foreign students, a ceiling that we hit last year and in that situation we have to say no to the proposal. I can, of course, encourage the proposers to work with us to ensure that we have more self-determination in this area, so that we can discuss precisely here in Things how we want to spend the money in this area, and so that we can discuss here precisely whether it is the young people here to whom the proposal is directed that we should choose to invite. But that requires self-determination which we do not have today. I would also like to say that it seems to me that the proposal is very bureaucratic and that perhaps we could also make a greater difference in the world by spending the funds on interventions in the framework of development aid in support of democracy, human rights and good governance. But it was a bee remark. For the Danish People's Party the core is that as long as we do not have self-determination over who we invite to take an education in Denmark, we should not extend the scope of those we invite. That's why the Danish People's Party says no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180200	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180201	This does not surprise me, although it is precisely a way of having full knowledge of who we are inviting. However, thank you for your openness. I would also like to ask the rapporteur here, following the Minister's remarks, that within the existing talent programme there are in fact these opportunities: will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party be involved in discussing how we can better inform about this, in other words, to clarify the possibility of taking precisely student activists who are fighting for democracy and who, of course, are often unable to complete their education, into the talent programme and make it clear, at least for universities, that this is an opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180249	I think that the most important thing when it comes to students is that they have the qualifications to enter to take the education they are going to take. I do not think that being an activist in one way or another independently is a qualification which is intended to be in this context. Therefore, I would like to say that we focus primarily on ensuring the talented Danish young people the opportunity to take a good education, and we focus on ensuring that we spend the funds to secure good education here in Denmark, and not to invite some who are not necessarily qualified for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180324	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180334	Thank you, President. I would also like to begin by saying that I have great sympathy for the intention behind this bill, because there is, of course, something positive about signalling that Denmark as a democratic country wants to support vulnerable students. With that said, we cannot support the bill for several different reasons. Firstly, and I think we have already mentioned this, this is not just about education policy; it also has a spruce of asylum policy in it, since the proposers believe that once the students have completed their education, they should return home, but if it is the case that they want to seek asylum in Denmark, it is also an option. That's why I think things are mixed up a little bit. In addition, as the rapporteur on the Radical Left said, we have already set aside funds to support democracy, human rights and good governance. Now we have mentioned the Norwegian pilot programme, and I am well aware that the rapporteur on the Radical Left says that you do not have to do it exactly the same way, but I think it is worth emphasising that few of those who have come to Norway have returned to their homeland. Some have travelled to another country or have remained in Norway or have applied for asylum. In addition, experience from Norway also points to the administratively cumbersome system needed to have the programme running. Like the Minister, I would like to say that Denmark is already open to anyone who has the right qualifications. But I do not think we should turn that argument around and use it as a qualification to get here that one is particularly exposed in the sense that it is at least used in Norway. A small commentary about Norway is that Norway around, which I have just been able to read out to at least, has half as many international students as Denmark. So Denmark is already a country that opens its doors to people from all over the world, but it must also be in balance with the Danish study environment that the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party mentioned. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal will result in more expenditure, which, from the outset, is in danger of not being repaid. It is money that the state may not get back, for example. remains and seeks asylum in Denmark. That's why I'm not sure this is the right construction to do it with. On the other hand, we are delighted, and I know that the rapporteur for the Radical Left is also aware that a great many millions of kroner have already been set aside to allow universities to take up students from a third world country through the free space and scholarship scheme. That is why I can conclude that the Left does not support the proposal. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they share the same view.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180626	Thank you. There are no brief remarks to Mr. Marcus Knuth, and that's why we need to move on quickly to Mr. Knuth. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180637	Thank you for the floor. The proposers want to create a Danish pendant for the Norwegian Students at Risks programme. The Minister and several rapporteurs have already explained some of the weaknesses they see in the proposal. One thing that has been mentioned several times is that there is, after all, some sort of overlap or at least a partial overlap with the grant programmes we already have. Similarly, there is some sort of overlap or partial overlap with the work being done through development aid in relation to research cooperation. These are, in fact, some objections which I agree with. But I would also like to draw your attention to another point. I find it problematic if there are too many activities in universities which are not subject to an academic merit principle and which are not, in any sense, part of the academic rivalry. Because if the element merit and the element academic rivalry are not present, I do not think it can be said that an activity is close enough to the core of the universities. It undermines universities as institutions if we politicise them too much, impose too much social engineering and forget that free institutions are, in such a way, the backbone of the university system we have, that there has to be some sort of political arm's length. I really think that respect for universities as institutions is something that has greatly influenced Danish university policy over the last 15 years. It has been imagined that these were the relatively random buildings at the disposal of the State, and then one could put activities of one kind or another into them without thinking that they are special institutions which we have in principle had since the Middle Ages here in Europe and which in many ways make us who we are. So, in addition to the good things that have already been said, I should also like to mention this point with the institutions as functional institutions. That is why we cannot support the proposal in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180916	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226180921	Thank you. After all, the universities themselves have just launched a Scolars at Risk programme, and some of them have so in demand to be able to do the same for students. They cannot, of course, because it is not within their field of action in relation to students. It is in Denmark that we stand for this. There we have to say that it is then a question of whether we can make it possible for them to do so. To try now to get to the constructive spirit: If you stick to the fact that it is with students like with scolars, i.e. researchers at universities, then they are already in demand, and therefore you make a scolars at Risk programme. Student activists are also admitted to higher education and must therefore be presumed to have a level; for they have entered, as we are transferring between students from other countries, because they have come in, otherwise they would not be entitled to it. But if you insist that you have to meet those talent requirements, but will also expand and inform us, as the Minister said, that we want to make room and make it clear to universities within the existing talent programme that this is an opportunity, will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181051	If I had to take a position on the proposal, I would have to hear a little more about it. I can see that there would be some opportunities in pointing out to universities that the grant programmes that already exist have a scope which they may not have thought of. At the same time, however, I should also like to stress that I think we should be very careful about too much social engineering and too many things which, in itself, are academically irrelevant. I think it is quite damaging to our institutions in the longer term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181132	I believe that we fundamentally disagree on how universities fulfil a role in society and whether academy can be separated from the rest of society and from the responsibility we have to shoulder as a nation, especially when it is publicly funded universities. But let's take it from there. I hear the rapporteur as being open to discussion of this at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181157	Thank you, sir. Dahl, there are no more brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181210	However, I should like to comment on what was said. Third Vice-President Yes, that's all right). So, I think that the finest thing an enlightened and civilised state like Denmark can do is sponsor useless research, because useful research can always be found sponsors for around, making some kind of investment calculus; but that we have a system that is not actually driven by usefulness, I think is very special for the Western world, and we should be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181237	Thank you, sir. Dahl. I'm sorry for my mistake. In addition to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, are there any other rapporteurs who wish to speak? There isn't. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181255	Thank you. I welcome both the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, while I remember it, and say that they are in favour of this proposal. But I would just like to start by pointing out that this is voluntary; there is no obligation on universities to admit anyone, but it is made possible. So I think in many ways that it will be entirely in line with the thoughts which, among other things, are. The Liberal Alliance's rapporteur made this point, because it is not possible to do so today. For us in the Radical Left, this is important because there is actually a fight going on all over the world. It is a fight for or against democracy, for or against freedom of expression and for or against the rights of the individual and for peaceful development that benefits the whole of society. Educational institutions, especially higher education institutions, are the ones that drive the idea forward in individual countries and have also played a very important role in the foundation of Danish democracy and democracy around the world. Young people are the hopes of democracy; those on which our future democracies must be built. Fortunately, there are many students and students who take matters into their own hands, not only because they hunger for a better future for themselves, but because they actually often take an active part in the fight for democracy and human rights, also for others. As a people who are proud of our democracy as well, I think that Denmark has a responsibility to support the struggle of these activists, and that's why we propose to create a Science at Risk Programme, STAR, which is already known around here. It is aimed at young students who, as has been said, fight in a non-violent way for or work for democratic rights, human rights and who, because of their struggle, suffer persecution, exclusion from education or discrimination. That's exactly why they need this. By meeting strict requirements, we will then allow persecuted foreign students to complete their education in Denmark and receive this scholarship. As the Minister also pointed out, last week the University of Copenhagen launched a Scolars at Risk programme in Denmark. It exists in many countries. It is a network between universities, and they can promise it themselves, because those they hire as researchers are within their remit, but they cannot do so when it comes to students in Denmark. There they need our help to make it possible. As I said, it's voluntary, if you want to receive, in this paper. But that is how we believe we can strengthen student activists' fight for peace, for democracy, for human rights, and that is what is needed in the world. It would suit Denmark and our proud educational tradition. As has also been part of the debate, we have taken inspiration in Norway. They already have such a program. Many other countries have similar programmes, and we in the Radical Left believe that we belong to that group of countries. Democracy is lacking in many parts of the world; democracy is at stake in many parts of the world; democracy is under pressure throughout the world and we need to defend it. We need to support those who have the most knowledge and opportunity to defend it; those who take the lead and risk defending democracy and the right to education. We just think that is Danish at its best, namely to defend the right to always be able to train and defend our democracy. We are well aware that the introduction of this will be a very, very modest contribution to it, but an important contribution. I hope that the Minister meant it seriously and that we can discuss it and then in this circle look at if there are no opportunities in the talent programme that started in 2014 to assert these values on democracy and human rights and, at least, to bring to the attention of the educational institutions that this is an opportunity and maybe also extend that possibility. I welcome this very much. You obviously have an interest in it precisely with the Scolars that Risk started, and then I hope that we will make progress along that path. We would very much like that in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181833	Thank you very much to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. As no one else wanted to speak, the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Education and Research Committee. If any of you do not object, I expect it to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181855	The negotiations have been opened and the first to speak is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226181918	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. The government fully supports the intentions behind the resolution. Supply companies should exercise moderation when their employees travel abroad, but there have been cases of poor judgment in recent years in connection with travel and representation. I do not want a supply sector in which stories of lack of moderation and professional relevance in representation and travel expenses appear on a regular basis. On the other hand, I would like the utilities to be aware of their social task, which is to manage consumer money. In other words, the government wants a sector that is fully focused on the core task, which is to ensure efficient, high-quality supply services at low prices to consumers. Therefore, the government has presented the first comprehensive supply strategy of Danish history and has concluded a number of broad policy agreements that will trigger a comprehensive transformation of the sector with a more focus on high quality at lower prices. In addition, in line with the supply strategy, the industry itself has taken up the baton and launched its own codes of good corporate governance. This is an important work towards ensuring good corporate governance carried by the sector itself. As I have already said, I fully agree with the intention of the motion for a resolution that supply companies should exercise moderation when, for example, the company's employees travel abroad. The supply companies have a special obligation when consumers are often unable to opt out of their company. There should therefore be no doubt that I am prepared to work actively for that intention. At the same time, I also sympathise with the proposal to lay down rules for moderation, because this is precisely a way to ensure that companies focus on the core task. However, I believe that the starting point should be that it is the owners, the board of directors and the management of the supply company who have the primary responsibility to ensure proper and moderate implementation of specific costs, for example. representation and travel. I think it would be difficult to set precise limits and definitions of what is reasonable about travel and representation costs. In addition, it may require extensive supervision, which will result in increased bureaucracy and costs for companies and consumers. At the same time, I believe that the pressure for efficiency that we are imposing on companies through a revenue framework with ongoing efficiency requirements should give the utilities the right incentive to be as professional and efficient as possible. I therefore believe that we should oblige companies to take responsibility for themselves and show proper socialism when managing money from consumers who cannot change companies. It is a responsibility that applies not only to travel costs, but a broader duty in the supply sector to focus on good corporate governance and ownership. The Government therefore proposes, in the first instance, to initiate work with the trade organisations and KL, which will lead to the development of common guidelines for good corporate governance in the supply sector in the form of a code of good corporate governance. The work on a new code can of course find inspiration in the industry's own experience in drawing up the code of good corporate governance. Such a code of good corporate governance should include: agree that each company is expected to develop principles for travel and representation expenses such as hotel accommodation, dinner, travel and the like. In addition, it must be concluded that each company is publicly related to and follows up the level of travel and representation costs for their company in a way that increases visibility and transparency. It is important to me that consumers who cannot be replaced in a utility company should at least be able to see how their utilities manage the money. At the same time, of course, it must be supported that such a code will live in the supply sector, so that we do not have to make specific rules. I will, of course, keep Parliament informed if there is not the necessary momentum in the work so that we can regularly discuss whether there is a need for tougher measures. I therefore hope that the proposers will be able to support such an initiative by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182427	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182436	Thank you, Minister, for your speech, and also thank you for your sensitivity to this motion for a resolution. I'm really happy about that. It is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party might well have thought that we might have gone a little further. Because we can be concerned that such a code can now help. In other words, it should, of course, be a matter of course for us to show good leadership, as the Minister also says. And for the fact that it is difficult to lay down rules: well, we have state tariffs when we go out. And I would just like to hear the Minister's answer as to why it is not possible, like that, to transfer that set of rules to our utilities. Because I do not think that we have any difficulty in being able to comply, even though there is leadership and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182530	Thank you for that and thank you for a good question. In the view of the government, it is the companies that are responsible. It is out in the individual company that the activities take place, and it is also the individual directors and boards who are responsible. And it is important for the government that we keep the responsibility there. If we start to legislate, we in the Danish Parliament will suddenly have to sit and watch whether the individual company now also complies with the rules that it chooses to lay down. And that is why I call for KL and the trade associations and individual municipal-owned companies to come together and have a proper code, so that there is transparency about these costs, and thus also visibility to the individual consumer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182617	Thank you. It is true that companies have the ultimate responsibility. They did so three years ago and five years ago and so on, and I just want to hear from the Minister whether he thinks he has fulfilled that responsibility so that he can now manage that responsibility himself in the future, at least in that area. Then I have one more thing, and that is for what the Minister was talking a little about, i.e. that it will be a bureaucracy and that it will take a little bit of effort if you are going to set up a set of rules. And I would like the Minister to say a few words about that, that is, what bureaucracy would result if the government's travel guidelines were also laid out to them, i.e. how much more bureaucracy it would actually give in such a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182701	Thank you for that question. After all, there will be bureaucracy if it is so that it is also the state that has to keep up with the rules that we have set from in here. And since there are many companies in each and every municipality in the country, it would be a fairly large-scale bureaucracy for us and for the state to sit and watch how much money is spent on one and the other in each company. And we therefore believe that there is the responsibility of each company. And then it is important that there is visibility about it, so that citizens also in municipal elections etc. can ask questions about what money is spent when the board is travelling or there may be gatherings and dinners and conferences that you attend.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182741	Thank you to the Minister and welcome to Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226182750	Thank you for that, and first of all thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate. I agree with the intention, and I would also like to agree with much of what the Minister has said. I think it would be wise if we could clean up the mess if we could avoid the unfortunate, but also a little colourful, stories we have seen from the supply sector, where unfortunately we have seen that there has been no connection between what we outwardly liked and what we actually did. It is also my impression that the sector understands that it needs to be cleaned up. I would say that I actually think that, as I hear the Danish People's Party a little, it would be very sensible if we were to follow up some of what we do in the public sector, i.e. it could be the other guidelines of the state or municipalities on what moderation is and what the good level of expenditure will be. So we are in complete agreement with the need to clean up the mess. We also agree with what level one could wisely adopt. But we also see a challenge in the fact that this motion for a resolution is aimed only at municipal companies, and there are, in fact, a great many utilities that are consumer-owned, and so they are outside the municipal area. And we really wanted to make sure they come with us. And I think that maybe we can get a little bit out of the way if the minister is willing to get started and overlook the fact that this work is going on and that we are implementing some guidelines out there. First and last it is the responsibility of the managements to measure up to the decisions they make, but before they can be held accountable for them, they must also communicate what decisions and guidelines they have. So I actually believe that most utilities will have an interest in communicating honestly about what kind of guidelines they are travelling by. And if they do not, then I also hear that the Minister will come back to the Folketing and discuss whether we have to use, if I may say so, more robust methods. And if we have to, then my proposal will certainly be that we also look at others than the municipal companies. Because there are actually very many consumer-owned companies, and there is the problem for consumers, so to speak, the same thing, so to speak, that you cannot choose another company. Basically, I think it is positive that this work is going on in the industry. I think it is against a dull background, because there are really some things that have not been easy to explain. However, we support the Minister's work in spreading an industry code, and I know that there are also a great many utilities and that was also the case when the press took up the matter now saying: we are well aware that this is a problem; in fact, we have since been corrected. And that's the way we have to make sure everyone goes, so there's no distractions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183045	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183048	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you for the support the rapporteur has given to this issue. I would just like to clarify and say that when we drafted the resolution, we also forgot to incorporate other forms of ownership for the companies. So if an amendment had been tabled, we would also have liked to have gone in and changed it. In fact, it was also our intention from the outset that this was the broad game, because it is clear that consumers do not care what ownership is like, the more they are interested in getting the right heat or water, or whatever it is, at the right price, and that moderation is shown with the money that is also in the company. So it was more of a solver.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183138	I think I understood it that way too. I would just point out that we have to ensure that the fact that there are no unlucky stories again about exorbitant travel on the consumer's account does not apply to all companies and, of course, not only to local authorities. So receipt that it is also the intention of the Danish People's Party, one might say, to raise this debate. Then I would say that I also believe that it is actually very effective to ensure that there is ownership on the boards of directors. I also believe that it is quite effective to make sure that this is something that is being raised at the general meetings, that it is something that is actually being called for openness about. And just as we have done when we have demanded social clauses in the municipalities and said that if you do not have such rules, then you have to explain why you do not have them, you can also say to the utilities: if you do not have clear guidelines put forward to us consumers about what rules you are travelling, we would certainly like to hear your explanation of why they are not publicly available on the web or elsewhere, so that you can see what is up and down.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183239	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. Well, then I'd like to welcome Mr. Knox. Thomas Danielsen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and we appreciate it if he wants to use the great platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183302	Thank you for that, President. With motion for a resolution B 40, Dansk Folkeparti proposes to create a set of rules for employees in municipal-owned utilities for the purpose of employees' travel activities. We in the Left fully support the intentions and intention behind the proposal, namely to ensure transparency of supply companies. It is crucial that we have a good supply sector in which consumers can count on their tax dollars being managed most effectively. That is why a code in this area is a good idea. Legislation only for the municipal-owned companies can be risky, but instead the government will take the initiative in collaboration with the industry and KL to draw up this code of good corporate governance, and I am pleased that the Danish People's Party is positive and welcoming.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183401	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so it is easy and simple. That is why I welcome Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten • De Red-Greenne; also he now has exclusive rights on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183424	Thank you. I would therefore like to say that it is a good thing to address a problem, but at the same time it is also important to say that there are plenty of utilities which do not have a problem. I think there are some things that need to be clarified, because according to the title of the motion for a resolution it concerns the employees of municipal utilities. There are a great many employees in municipal utilities who never go out to travel, but who do their job. Further down in the proposal it then says that they are their representatives. And it is my impression that the cases that have been raised relate more to some senior staff and some board members who have had the opportunity to go on some study trips. So I think we should be sharp as to who these rules should apply. Now we are talking about utilities, and I think that if we are to start from the fact that this is something which is municipally owned, it is actually more the municipal-owned public limited companies, so it could also be a port in a municipality which was a public limited company and which had a board of directors which, as such, left a little outside of the rules that the municipality has for its own activities when there are study trips. But I guess the idea is that you get it spread out to all municipal public limited companies. Through the debate here, we have come to the conclusion that Jens Joel also thinks that this should apply to the consumer-owned utilities, and I have to say that we then go a little further than what the proposal has been put into practice. We could also go further and say: what about the state-owned companies that are in the supply sector? So, I think it is a little difficult to discuss a proposal that suddenly becomes something that includes more than what is actually in the text. It says that external audit is proposed. It could be very good, but it only works if it is that you have some good rules, otherwise in some of these cases you would probably come to the conclusion that the external audit concludes that a decision has been taken at management level to conduct a study trip, and if there are no rules as to what study trips may cost etc. then nothing has been done officially wrong, and the audit would not be able to catch that. I also think that if you are going to make rules about this, you should bear in mind that there may be some utilities that are so small that you have to consider how much bureaucracy there can be. It may be in a smaller municipality that has some rather small companies, but is that where to put the pressure? I think that is a relevant question to clarify. We warmly support Enhedslisten's moderation and that there should not be these journeys where you can then see that it was not fair what was going on. At the same time, there must be openness in order to ensure that it can be important to seek inspiration, and it is often there that you can seek the inspiration close to where you have your business as a utility company and do not have to travel as far away as possible. So I really think we should be able to defend the travel activity there is, regardless of which employees and which board members participate in it. Then I also think, as to where the responsibility lies, that there may be some municipalities that have the opportunity to control it here, when they approve budgets or accounts for some municipally owned utilities which may be in common municipal ownership or which may be owned by only a municipality. So there is, of course, a duty to do its best locally to counteract it by asking what kind of travel activities are in the individual companies. The Minister's reception was such a partial reception of the proposal, one will continue to work on some rules, but one would also argue that the responsibility lies mainly at local level and that it ultimately lies very much in the companies to which it relates. So we are positive about the intentions in it, but we think it is important to clarify who the resolution is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183832	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183837	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for relevant clarifications. I actually took the floor because Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen said that I would spread the rules to the consumer-owned private companies as well. In fact, I think that what was my point was that it can be very, very difficult to intervene against private companies. And what's the problem with this proposal is that it doesn't make consumers very sure that wrong things happen. That is why my support really applies to what the Minister has proposed, namely to sit down and discuss it with the industry. A number of the consumer-owned companies have already done so, and if you sit down with KL and the municipal-owned companies and say: Now we set a standard for what is right and wrong here, that is, what we are travelling after the event, it would really be the most effective way to eliminate overuse. So it was an illustration that laying down rules from in here is something we can do, but we cannot hit them all. And then I would actually rather find a solution that applies to the whole industry and that ensures consumers • no matter what ownership is.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226183947	It may be that we come back to the fact that the motion for a resolution concerns only what is stated in the motion for a resolution. Some people are working with good corporate governance. It's real. There are recommendations in this area. I mean, if you want to behave, there are really good opportunities to do that. I'd say so. And if you have some rules that don't determine what you can't do, then it's kind of up to a board to look at your own work and have the self-knowledge that you shouldn't do anything just because it's not forbidden. In other words, you can work on such codes for what you should not do and what you should do. And one of the things may be that you always have to be able to explain professionally why you want to go to a particular place and why it is the employees or the board members who are going on that trip. I think it is fair enough that we have such considerations and that it should not be intended for some to achieve such a reward trip because they have been on a board for a whole year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184053	Well, now I'm having a little doubt about sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen really thinks it is necessary. In other words, to make it quite clear: in the social democracy we agree that there are very many places where it works well. Unfortunately, there have also been some unfortunate examples. And what we really have to do is act at the Minister's excellent request, because we think it is wise to make sure that there are general rules that we can resort to if we ourselves have not already gone through this process and ensured that the Executive Board has transparency about it and has some rules. So what is needed is really a handout from the trade association and KL to ensure that those who do not know what to catch and do in can take refuge here. And then all the managements themselves must measure up to what they are doing. Moreover, transparency must be ensured.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184145	Well, I don't disagree with that. And I also believe that there are a number of larger municipalities where you actually have, what should you say, rules for travel, which concern council members. In fact, the same standards could easily be applied to public limited liability companies operating in the supply sector. I can imagine. There are certainly a number of municipalities that have a maximum amount for what such a hotel room may cost.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184208	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184211	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for reviewing the different types of company that we now have. But I have to say, like the previous one, that I do not quite know where the Enhedslisten is in this. After all, consumers do not care what kind of company it is; they are interested in getting the cheapest electricity, the cheapest heat or anything else, so that their money is well managed and money is not wasted. And I had such a feeling that Enhedslisten was also a guardian of, also in the municipalities and around, so that one has always been an advocate of the money being spent wisely, that there was a healthy culture and that there was moderation with the citizens' money. So the speech puzzled me a little; I couldn't quite find the head and tail in it. It may be that the rapporteur can help me a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184312	You can of course take a broad debate on something, but if you look at the motion for a resolution as it is formulated, then it says that it is locally owned Danish utilities. It is with municipal ownership that I am starting from when I point out that perhaps there could also be some ports which are purely municipal owned public limited companies and that I have also heard that there have been some problems in certain places. I think that should be dealt with. But when, like the broadest, it seems to relate to electricity, heat and water, I have to say that on the electricity side it is not normal that it is municipal companies that own the electricity supply; it is, in fact, cooperatives which are official private companies. So I do not see that included in this motion for a resolution. So I think it is a little reasonable for me to try to narrow it down in relation to the resolution that has been tabled. I can then hear that the debate is spreading out to other things, and I could also think it was really exciting if you could get out what you spent money on in private limited companies, which certainly also have some travel activity among senior employees. So I am in favour of maximum openness and moderation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184418	Well, I'm glad to hear that, too, but I didn't quite get an answer. One can, of course, make an amendment to such a motion for a resolution, and I also made it clear before, and after it was tabled, that there should have been other forms of ownership in this too. Because in the Danish People's Party, we are very, very concerned that consumers get the right electricity, water and heat at the right price, and that people's money is treated with care and that is as such, no matter what ownership is involved. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur again: you would like to agree to this, but if it were to spread out, you would not be sure that you would bring other forms of company underneath or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184511	Yeah, I think it's fine. Private public limited companies could easily be included in this, so that they would also have to explain what the board of directors is using travel activities for. I can easily see that. I think there should be openness about this, and if you are a consumer in a company, you can ask about it. Well, there are many companies that practice a very high degree of openness, and I think it's fine that you have this kind of stuff on your websites around.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184536	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184548	Thank you. I am probably inclined to agree with the Danish People's Party that too much money, too much of the consumer's money, is being spent around the municipal and, of course, in other monopoly supply companies too much money, on anything that has nothing to do with the real core task. We have indeed seen a large number of examples of utilities that have spent a great deal of money on travel and representation. I regard this somewhere as a lack of respect for the citizens, because the bill can only end in one place, and it is out with the citizens, with the consumers. It will be so extra dubious because, in many cases, these are monopolies, where consumers have no possibility of changing supply companies, even if their money is being squandered. So how are we going to contain this problem? How do we best protect consumers in this context? That is where I would say that I might become a little more sceptical and actually do not believe that the detailed management of travel expenses by the state would be the right way to deal with it. When rules become too rigid, they also tend to lose their effectiveness. I believe more in a solution where the board and management of the individual companies themselves take much more responsibility for exercising the necessary moderation and for focusing on the core task and making it more transparent for consumers what it really is that money is going to do in the individual companies. One way from here we can get companies to take more responsibility is by putting further pressure on, for example. In terms of efficiency requirements, which we already use as a tool. In fact, it is not only the representation account that is a potential for efficiency in these companies. That is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the government's initiatives to start work with the municipalities and the relevant industry organisations to strengthen the responsibility of the individual utilities. I must therefore also reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184825	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184830	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am sorry that the Liberal Alliance does not support this, but I assume that because you are a government party you also support what the Minister has put forward that you can continue working on. And that is a step in the very good direction. But it was just that I might just like to ask how one can describe a rule as a rigid rule if one requires a company to follow the State's rates for travel activity. Does the rapporteur think it is a rigid rule that we follow in here when we have travel activity?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184914	In this context: if supply companies are imposed such rules, there will also have to be some degree of supervision. There will be some degree of what I know to sign up for a secretariat function or something, and that is what I think will create some bureaucracy. It would be a little bit rich to get into a paradigm like this. In fact, I do not think we will be able to be familiar with imposing on these utilities. Instead, however, I think it is quite appropriate that we appeal to management and board consciences in terms of moderation and consumer money.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226184953	The questioner? Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Carsten Bach. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185004	I would like to say very briefly that the intentions of this proposal are something that we fully endorse and, when there are municipal guidelines, it might be appropriate to be inspired by them. Exactly how do I think we should look at in a report or in the text that we can now work on in committee? We have not been very clear about how it can be formulated, but it is obvious to be inspired by the municipalities. But I have also listened with interest to the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, who says that it may well be that we should also look at this in relation to other types of companies. It is of course relevant that you go on a study trip sometimes and become wiser, but how far do you have to go, and how much must it cost? It's a delicate balance. So I think this is something we should look at in committee work, but overall we think it would be good to sharpen things up a little in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185118	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185127	Thank you very much. I think it is a fine debate we have today, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the debate, because we have a supply sector to which citizens are in some way bound, among other things. Because it's monopolies you can't choose that you don't want electricity, heat or water. After all, that money must be managed responsibly, so that consumers only pay for what they actually get from supply. That is why we have also seen that confidence can come to the test when these stories about travelling on behalf of the citizens come up, so it is very important that we have this discussion today. I also think it is good that the Minister then proposes to create an industry code with the KL. This is certainly a response to this problem, and we would like to be involved in landing this report in a way that sends a clear signal to those who have not yet received clear guidelines on how to spend their supply customers' money. That is the position of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185231	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments. And a warm welcome to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185241	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an important and important debate. This is crucial when you spend money from, among other things. the supply companies that they are being used wisely. This is a trade, for example. that unnecessary money should not be spent on unnecessary waste and greed, including in relation to where you go in the world. It may make sense to travel, it may make sense to be inspired, and especially if it means that you can be more innovative in the particular utility company. However, it must of course be aware that the money is spent wisely and sensibly. So this is a really relevant and good debate. I think it also makes the municipal utilities just lift an eyebrow and are a little thoughtful forward. So it's actually very good to have a raised index finger here. Then I think that the Minister's way of dealing with the proposal by asking for a trade council precisely where the industry, the KL and the Ministry get put together to create a code for this makes sense in the future. And if it does not solve the problem, then we will have to take the matter back to the Assembly. We in the SF are willing to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185347	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There are no brief comments. And the last rapporteur is Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185357	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party agrees with the motion for a resolution tabled by the DF on the problem of the lack of moderation in their spending of money on travel and hotel accommodation, etc. There have been some bad stories, and these are the ones that DF here today will try to take care of. We think that's really good. There have been too many of them, and it is important that we somehow find guidelines in this area. It can be said that the government has created a comprehensive supply strategy and concluded a number of broad political agreements that will trigger a major transformation in the sector with a greater focus on quality at lower prices. All other things being equal, one must also think that the costs of being in seminars and travelling around the world will be looked at here. It can also be said that, in line with the supply strategy, the industry itself has taken the baton and launched its own codes of good corporate governance. And now it is just that we have to put it in place on the issue we have on the agenda here today. But first of all, it is the owners of the utility companies and the board of directors and management who are responsible for ensuring that the actual costs we have discussed with this motion for a resolution are properly and moderate. It could be said that a good starting point would be to look at the rates of the municipalities and the state. I know that there are some upper limits, some quite reasonable limits in many places, and one could look at them in connection with the work that needs to be started here. I agree with the Minister that it would be a very good idea to start work with industry organisations and KL, where they sit down and find codes of good corporate governance, but also good cost-side guidelines, travel and so on. Principles must then be drawn up here for travel and accommodation and the like. In fact, it can be said that what we are discussing here should not have to be regulated. It is consumers' companies, and therefore it was quite natural for these companies and their management to ensure that consumers' money was not spent unnecessarily. But history has shown that here we are in a different situation, and that is why we agree in the Conservative People's Party that the Minister is setting industry organisations and KL in motion, and if they do not come back with anything sensible, then I understand that we will hear from the Minister again, and then we will have to deal with the rules that are now to be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185737	You're welcome, sir. Orla Østerby. It was not quite true what I said before that it was the last rapporteur, but the rapporteur for the proposers always has a special status; he/she comes at the end and is entitled to a particularly long speaking time. Welcome to the rapporteur of the proposers, Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226185757	Thank you very much, sir. President. I am glad that I am also allowed to take part in the debate here. I would also like to thank the debaters, and I would like to thank the Minister for at least being sensitive to the fact that there are some issues raised in this proposal and, as I have already indicated, it is a proposal that should perhaps have gone a little further when we talk about company formations, so that it is not only municipal owned, but perhaps also that when you talk to the trade association, you can look at it a little wider. In the Danish People's Party we have put this issue on the agenda because in recent years these newspaper ads have come out, one after another, with some rather boring figures that you have been to expensive restaurants, you have flown in first class, you have had spouses on trips, you have even made some sponsorship agreements for football clubs and other things, and I could go on in that direction. Here I am talking about utilities under one, and not just the municipal owned ones, but the citizens out there don't really care about ownership. What also puzzles me a little is that for some of the newspaper ads I have brought here, all that has been discovered here is that some of them may have ratted out or something, and then a journalist has started digging into it. Otherwise, it has lived its hidden life, I think, for a very long time, and we just have to see that it has been there, and that is why I am particularly pleased that it is being highlighted in the media, so that some action can also be taken and we could have this debate today. In the Danish People's Party, we simply believe that there has been an unhealthy culture for many years in relation to what one could only afford to do with the citizens' money, and we think that is completely out of place. That the minister is now going in and doing this cooperation agreement and talking to the trade association, and that you want to go in and look at making this code, and the minister like that also puts a lot of emphasis on the need for visibility and openness, so that consumers can also go in to see this, I think it's a really good step on the road, compared to hopefully not seeing these newspaper ads forward. But, of course, I am sorry that the Minister will not go a little further, because with this resolution we in the Danish People's Party wanted to focus on the fact that utilities and similar companies remain within state tariffs, which have also been talked about here, that is, what you do when you have representation and are travelling; that there is visibility for the consumption of representation; that it is paid off with financial statements and other things; that there is a clear agreement on what to do and what not to use consumer money for, and here I am also thinking of sponsorships and the like, which there have also been some companies that have agreed. I do not think that citizens are happy about this, that is, that the supply company sponsors a football club or anything else. There we must stick to what consumers enjoy. Then there must be a higher degree of professionalism in relation to these foreign travels. I also think that some of the articles that have been have shown that there is a very small degree of professionalism when you travel, and then there is a very large share of what to say pleasures on these trips. I also think that I would ask the Minister to say that perhaps it is also thought that it is actually a code that when you travel, it is because it has a professional background that these board members must learn something and see something and can bring home some things that benefit the company. So I think that should also be highlighted. Then there is this review and who is going to look for what, because it has only been discovered because there are some journalists who have dug in it, and that may disturb me a little, but we have to take that when the code is in place. And when the minister returns, we'll have to keep the companies up on it. In addition, I also think that it is grotesque when there have been some of these cases in some companies where the director has then been fired, that a director is then not held more responsible for having failed his appointment, but still can drag large sums of money home, even if you have not lived up to what was expected. We also think it is grotesque that we can do so. I also hope that, in the second context, one might be able to go in and look at how to act if a director is fired because he or she has failed to perform his or her duties. However, I look forward to the Minister getting the work started, and I hope that we will be kept informed on a regular basis, and I will also be happy to take part in the process of good ideas and so on, and then I look forward to what the Minister will come up with and thank you for today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226190330	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226190349	Moreover, the proposal comes from a citizens' proposal, and we are opening the negotiations, and we are doing so with the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226190422	Thank you very much for that, President, and thank you for the floor. I've been looking forward to this debate we're having tonight. The massive public involvement in the climate issue, which the citizens' proposal is evidence of, is truly uplifting and necessary. The citizens' proposal in itself is more than uplifting, because it contains many good proposals that run very well with the government's policy. The Government will continue to ensure that Denmark can be a driving force in the development of a European and international climate policy that supports the ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement. It is also precisely the commitment and profile that makes Denmark a key player in preparing the UN Secretary-General's climate summit in New York this autumn. At the same time, the citizens' proposal fits in very well with the government's plan that in the next session we will table proposals for a new climate law. Here it goes without saying that the 2050 objective of climate neutrality from the energy agreement must be written into the law, a goal which is fully in line with the Paris Agreement. At the same time, the government will now launch a large consultation with the Danes, where everyone can speak out with a kick-in for climate policy and the new Climate Act. I will start the dialogue with the Danes in the coming weeks and months. I look forward to this because I know that many Danes have something on their mind, and I think and deal with it when it comes to solving the climate challenge. The government will now look at all the elements of the citizens' proposal and in the work of writing a new Climate Act. And, as I said, there are very many good similarities between the citizens' proposal and the government's climate policy. I'm gonna do a little explaining tonight. The citizens' proposal attaches great importance to Denmark's compliance with the Paris Agreement. Here the proposal is fully in line with government policy. Denmark is bound by the Paris Agreement through the EU. We are living up to the Paris Agreement by delivering on the climate targets that we have in the European Union by 2030. However, the government is also working hard for the EU to strengthen its contribution to the Paris Agreement by 2020. With the government's climate and air emissions, Denmark is well on its way to achieving its climate target in the EU by 2030 for non-quota emissions. With the initiative, a comprehensive plan for achieving the objectives has been put forward, with contributions from both concrete initiatives in the short term, longer-term actions and a strengthened research effort. The project's initiatives and transport objectives can make a contribution to achieving the objective in the EU of 32 million. t CO2 The total reduction requirement in the non-quota sectors, also known as cars, farmers and housing, is estimated to be between 32 and 37 million. t CO 2 With the government's ambitious efforts, we reach a great deal in terms of achieving the goal. The citizens' proposal makes a great deal of sense when it comes to climate considerations in all sectors, and the government will ensure that too. Specifically, we are taking the initiative, among other things. grab the climate-laden cars. Until now, CO2 The Government's goal is that no more traditional petrol and diesel cars will be sold after 2030, and from 2035 new plugin hybrid cars will not be sold. With the aim, together with a number of other responsible countries, we are sending a clear signal to the car industry, to the European Union and to the rest of the world that we want green cars on the roads. At the same time, we will help the deployment of electric cars with a number of initiatives at home. Today we have published the Commission which is to come up with proposals for an overall strategy for the spread of green cars on a large scale in Denmark. This is the only right thing to do when we have to rethink a new area where the state gets approx. 50 billion. kr. in revenue for the welfare society. At the same time, the government will press for the EU to have a plan for phasing out petrol and diesel cars. Denmark gets nothing out of going alone here. We need to send a common strong signal in the European Union in order to push the car industry. We should not forget the buses either. Here the government's goal is that all buses in the cities will not emit CO2 I think that is also an ambitious goal. We are now in dialogue with the municipalities on how best to tackle this challenge. Because we very much agree with the citizens' proposal that municipalities also have a major role to play in climate action. In the motion we also address agriculture. Here, too, we have a more comprehensive catalogue of initiatives than any previous government has put forward. Today, Denmark has one of the most ambitious and environmentally friendly and efficient agriculture in Europe, but we do not have the good climate solutions that do not affect agricultural production. We need to research and develop new solutions, which is why the government has set 90 million. kr. to an ambitious climate research effort in agriculture. Then we have just launched a strong climate partnership with Agriculture & Food and Organic Landsforening. At the same time, we must now look at how agriculture can contribute specifically to meeting Denmark's 2030 reduction targets and the target of climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. If Denmark is to reach the goal of being a climate-neutral society by 2050, we also have to increase CO2 which is why the government will be among other things. also allocate 100 million. kr. for research into the absorption and storage of CO2 If we are to achieve a goal, it is also very important that we bring all Danes with us. The government has therefore set aside 24 million. kr. to strengthen climate-friendly behaviour through consumer choice and behavior in everyday life. Based on a climate label, the campaign should make it easier for Danes to make green choices. We are now in the process of organising the work. It is an effort that is fully consistent with the citizens' proposal's focus on public education and education. The government has also put in place an ambitious plan on how to achieve our climate targets by 2030, and we have set out the right lines to achieve the goal of the challenge by 2050, and we will, by nature, ensure that we achieve fully in line with established ongoing inventories up to 2030, to ensure that we keep the course. In general, we will follow the development of Denmark's greenhouse gas emissions very closely, and this is on a very well-founded professional basis, which the citizens' proposal places particular emphasis on. The citizens' proposal also emphasises that the climate effects of new measures must be constantly looked at. In this context, the Government is also open to clear guidelines for the inventory of the climate effect of new legislative proposals. I agree with the citizens' proposal that Denmark should continue to focus on developing climate solutions so that we can remain a pioneering country for the rest of the world in the green area. We have created a solid foundation for this with the Energy Agreement. Here we agreed that funding for research and development and demonstration in energy technology and climate should be increased to 1 billion. kr. in 2024. After all, as I said, we have also launched an ambitious climate research effort in agriculture, and that is exactly the right approach. Research, development and demonstration of new green solutions not only promote the green transition in Denmark, but throughout the world, and it creates the basis for growth and jobs throughout Denmark. Finally, of course, I very much agree with the principle of the citizens' proposal that Denmark should also continue to be a driving force in international climate policy. The Government is therefore working on a wide range of fronts to ensure an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement's objectives. The direction of the European Union in the coming years will be crucial here. Here, the government is actively working for the EU to set a clear direction for climate neutrality when establishing a new long-term climate strategy. The government will work hard to ensure that the European Union puts out the right working lines so that we can develop the solutions that will enable us to achieve the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 at the latest. This is true, for example. in the field of transport, where, as I said earlier, the European Union has a very important role to play if we are to push the car industry. Then the government is working for the EU to maintain its important global leadership. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure that by 2020 the European Union strengthens its contribution to the Paris Agreement. With COP24 in Katowice well over, we have among other things. Through active European action, a set of rules has been established to make the Paris Agreement a reality. This is one of the great climate policy victories we have reaped in 2018. Specifically, in the climate negotiations, Denmark has played a role in ensuring that the ambition mechanism was put in place, a mechanism to ensure that all parties have to increase their climate ambitions over time. The coming year will continue to focus on the need to increase the global level of ambition if we are to limit climate change. Among other things, it has to be done. take place under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General's Climate Summit in September 2019, where Denmark has been given an important role as leader of the energy track. On the Danish side, we also continue our important bilateral cooperation in the field of energy with 15 of the world's largest economies. Here we use our Danish experience within among others. renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement to help countries convert their energy sectors. It is an effort that really moves if 15 of the world's largest economies follow Denmark's example. Finally, Denmark leads the work on getting more funding and more investment into the green transition. Here we share our experience of mobilising private investors in the transition to cleaner energy systems with the rest of the world. Investment in energy conversion is precisely one of our focus points for the climate summit in September. Denmark is therefore a green superpower and a driving force in global climate action, and we in the government fully agree with the citizens' proposal that we should continue to take the lead. I think that the government has set out the right lines to ensure that Denmark and the rest of the world can ensure an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement, and I am pleased that many of the elements of the proposed citizens' proposal are fleeing with government policy. I am very concerned that we have a climate law that supports the Danish climate action in the best way possible. But now the government will look at all the elements of the citizens' proposal in the work of writing a new climate law. We are now open to all proposals, and I warmly thank the citizens' proposal and also look forward to a contribution from the forthcoming consultation of the Danes. I look forward to the work of writing a new climate law and to involving all Danes in shaping future climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191703	Thank you, Minister. There is a whole series of brief remarks so that the Minister can stay calm. The first is sir. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191714	Thank you. It almost sounded like the minister was in on this, so I look forward to it. First of all, I would like to say that I am somewhat surprised by the broad consultation which has to take a great deal of time, because this proposal comes from the citizens. It is, of course, a citizens' proposal, and it is actually presented by the environmental organisations, which represent the very many citizens of Denmark who are interested in this area. Then the Minister says that this proposal is in line with what the government is doing, and I would just like to say that it is quite clear here that the proposal says that we have to recognise the Paris Agreement and work for it, but when we look at the statements made with the government's own figures, the Ministry's own figures, we get a reduction of about half a million a year, which means that we are zero in the year 2101. So it's a long time after 2050. So how does the Minister think it can be understood as being in line with government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191820	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll for the question. It is the Government's intention to involve all Danes, to give all Danes the opportunity to come up with their good ideas and contribute to the Climate Act of the future, and therefore it is my intention to go on the road and discuss it here with the Danes, and I will also in cooperation with the Danish Parliament's Energy Policy Committee, if there is a wish, see if we can make different initiatives that can involve a great many Danes in this. It is also the government's goal to live up to the Paris Agreement, which is why in 2050 Denmark must be a climate-neutral country. That is the prerequisite for delivering on the Paris agreement, and that is why it is of course clear that the government has put forward a climate change proposal, and with that we will achieve in terms of the reductions that we have to make towards 2030. But there will also be a massive effort after 2030, and a number of the effects of the government's climate action, among others. in the field of transport, will only come after 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191918	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191919	But the pace has just slowed down, despite the fact that you could choose to make bets that work much faster. So is it not the case that the pace of the government's efforts has now been slowed down and that it will depend on later efforts whether we can achieve anything at all? Why has the government chosen to use that strategy when we know that it is becoming more expensive and expensive, the longer we wait to make the ambitious effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226191952	Thank you for the question. I do not believe that the government has slowed down, on the contrary: climate change, up to 32 million. t CO 2 Christian Poll's party is happily part of, 10-11 million. t CO2 So I think we are well on our way, I think we have a whole range of measures. However, this does not end here, because further efforts are needed, and that is why it is also the Government's ambition to work towards the EU raising its ambition towards 2030, and that we are doing so by 2022, and that will also require us to look at our ambitions in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192027	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192029	Thank you. In fact, I believe that this citizens' proposal has arisen because we have had too many of the kinds of situations we have now, namely when the government says they are extremely ambitious, but when you count on the figures, you see that it takes 95 years and 7 months before we get to zero. And there is too little control in that you actually also act and not just say it in the bowl speeches. I'm here with the bill, and on page 1 it says it's pretty simple that there are six principles. Can the government vote 'yes' to the six principles 'yes' or 'no'?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192108	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192110	Thank you for the question. There are at least six headings on page 1 of the proposal. And I would say that when I look at every single headline, I actually think that the intentions behind it are something that the government can follow. Now it is clear that it needs to be translated into concrete action and into legislative proposals, and then, of course, we will have to discuss the individual elements, but the direction and the attitude behind it we can support a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192134	Sir. Apparently, Jens Joel wants to talk again. It's fine if you just press in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192140	I've done that now. Okay, so the government is going to vote in favour of the proposal, and that also includes setting national targets. So can the Minister not confirm that the government would like to, in other words, set national climate targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192154	Well, thank you for the question. So, on the question of what objectives should be set, I would say that we also have objectives in the energy agreement, among others. a target of 100 per cent by 2030. Green electricity in Denmark. We have also set a target in the energy agreement that we should be climate neutral by 2050. And we also agree that we must continuously follow up the progress we have made in achieving the objectives we are committed to achieving. So the idea of setting different goals is not alien to us; we do so in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192225	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192229	I rather feel sorry for the climate minister, because I think it must be very unpleasant to stand and say how well things are going in Denmark when all those who listen to it say that they do not think so. Even the Climate Council says it's not going well enough. Danish industry says: Keep your ambitions; you are in the process of lowering your ambitions. Then the climate minister says that we are a climate transition country. We're green frontrunner, we're green superpower. And all those who stand around listening to it say: No, we can't see it. So I feel kind of sorry for the climate minister right now. I really want to ask the question: why does the climate minister think that the whole world cannot see the same thing as the climate minister can see?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192329	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192330	Thank you for the question. Sir. Uffe Elbæk doesn't have to feel sorry for the Minister for Climate Affairs. I've actually been looking forward to tonight. And I'm excited every single time that I'm here in Denmark, and when I'm outside Denmark's borders, to present Denmark's climate policy and energy policy. It says great, great respect about it. One can hardly get around the globe without Denmark being at the forefront. In one international survey after another, we are placed as the best country in the world for green conversion. So I just want to say: look at the things we have implemented, also at the energy agreement, which is also part of the alternative. I do not think that many countries have the same ambitious objectives as Denmark there: 100%. Green electricity by 2030; 55% of the total energy needs based on renewable energy in area by area. Denmark is in front of us now come up with the mood and be a little proud of what we have achieved in Denmark and the long series of joint agreements. This is not, of course, due to a single party here in the Danish Parliament; it is not least due to the fact that we have a very, very broad agreement in the field of energy and climate, not least in the field of energy, which includes all the parties of the Danish Parliament, and where a large number of parties have for a long, long period of time assumed a joint responsibility to ensure that Denmark has the strong position that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192442	Thank you. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192444	In other words, the difference between the government and, at least, the opposition, if one can afford to speak on behalf of the whole opposition at all, I do not. I am speaking on behalf of the Alternative is that we do not think things are going well enough. It's not going well enough at all. And we're not the ones who say that. It is the UN climate panel that says so. At the meeting in Poland in the autumn they said that we should be five times as ambitious. All the new information we are getting says that things are going in the wrong direction. We must raise our ambitions; things are not going well enough at all. So my question to the climate minister is: does it not make an impression on the climate minister that there is one report after another that says this is completely alarming? Doesn't that make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192537	Thank you. It makes an impression, and therefore it is also important that we get our act together all over the world, but I think that we can be quite satisfied with Denmark's position internationally. Of course, we can always get better, and that is also the signal I am sending here today. After all, we are prepared to look at the Danish level of ambition as well. We will also do this with a Climate Act, in other words, to see if there are areas where we need to take further action. But when you look at it in general, you just have to say that Denmark really is at the good end, and then there is a need for us to get the rest of the world to lift up in relation to a goal that by 2050 we should be climate neutral. Denmark has also worked for this in the EU context, namely that the EU will have the same high level of ambition. I am very, very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192617	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192620	Well, I think this citizens' proposal is a bit of an expression of the fact that there are a lot of citizens who want the government to get into the climate struggle. One of the issues included in the citizens' proposal is that Denmark should invest in the development of green solutions. We in the Enhedslist very much agree with that. If you look at what the government is doing... let's take the traffic... then the government has been in charge of making petrol and diesel cars cheaper here for the first three years, and at the opening of the Danish Parliament the Prime Minister was out to say that you would like to have 1 million electric cars by 2030. Then negotiations started that resulted in 150 extra electric cars coming in 2019. Today we have been presented with a mandate for the green conversion of passenger cars in Denmark, and there I have looked for this million electric cars... are they included in the mandate? No, they are not, and I would really like to hear the Minister for Climate and Energy: why is the million electric cars that the Prime Minister spoke of as being something that could be a vision to be worked on, not included in the mandate of this commission, which is going to work on the green conversion of passenger cars in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192738	Thank you for the question. It is the government's ambition that by 2030 there will be 1 million electric cars. The Prime Minister made that clear in his opening speech. That is the direction in which we are working, and that is why I am glad that we have been able to name the members of the Transport Commission today. That is quite important. We are also waiting for a very important piece of work here, because the whole prerequisite for achieving this million electric cars is, of course, that we get a look at what are obstacles, how we get our taxes and taxes right together, and how we get a foundation for achieving the goal of 1 million electric cars by 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192818	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192820	Well, it's smart people who now have to be on that commission and advise the government, but they just don't have in their paper that they have to work for this million electric cars. If we now look at agriculture, the Minister has been out to air in the past, that it was a little difficult to do anything about it; that one could shoot cows. And then I think the Minister has come to the conclusion that perhaps there could also be other solutions. In the government's presentation • Together with a greener future • Climate and air emissions • It says that you will order an analysis to become wiser on the CO2 inventory • The CO2 production will therefore initiate an analysis to improve the inventory methods so that you can more targetedly increase the uptake of CO2 Now it was written in October, just as it was with the Transport Commission. Has the government ordered this analysis and is the government planning to do something seriously to reduce the large CO2 emissions of agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192916	Thank you for the question. I can promise you that, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen that we want to, and that is also why, with our climate play, we set off 90 million. kr. to research how Danish agriculture can reduce emissions of CO2 There is a need for knowledge and we need to do this in the right way. And I can promise you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for that of course there will be initiatives here, but we all need to get smarter. There are in relation to reducing agricultural emissions of CO2 and I also hope and believe that there will be some proposals from there on how we can tackle that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226192958	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193001	Thank you. I think I have rarely heard anything as green as the Minister's speech. One would almost think that it was the government that had written this citizens' proposal for the 11 green organisations that had otherwise put it in the first place. And it must be amazing to hear when you stand out there as one of the over 65,000 people who have taken a stand on this. In other words, one cannot at all hear that it is a minister who is at the forefront of a government that is slowing down the rate of reduction by up to a quarter; one cannot hear that it is a minister who will have 150 electric cars on the street next year or whose climate plan is 70-80 percent. Desktop exercises. That's not what it sounds like. I could understand from the Minister, also in his reply to Mr Tugendhat. Jens Joel, that the government actually stands up for all six principles written down in this citizens' proposal. And I think that's really, really good. Then it may well be that you want to wait a little longer to implement it, but I expect that means that the governing parties will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193112	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193113	So I would say that there are a great many good elements in the citizens' proposal. We're gonna sit down and take a closer look. And then it is the government's intention in the autumn to make a proposal for a new climate law. And then it is also our intention to involve all Danes in this debate, which I think is very, very important, and I welcome the great commitment that exists, including with regard to the citizens' proposal. I think it is 65 000 people who have signed this proposal. I think that is quite impressive. Wherever we are in Denmark, I experience that there is a huge commitment. There have also been demonstrations in Copenhagen, and I have even been down to talk about it and have a great understanding of the people who are involved in this. I understand that. That is also why we are listening and looking at these proposals. And when I look down over them, I actually think there are very large parts of the proposal that lie here that we can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193205	Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193206	So it was a no that the government does not intend to vote in favour of it. And there I would just like to explain to the Minister that I think he should. I think the Minister should vote for this because if it is not just empty talk coming from that platform right now, then there is nothing in the way of voting through this citizens' proposal, conducting all of its hearings, where you obviously want to talk to everyone and that sounds nice and then you can implement the legislation accordingly. In fact, because resolutions adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly are not legally binding, so you can adjust afterwards, even if you have voted in favour and it has gone through. We do not need to do so literally in relation to what is stated in the motion for a resolution. So I think the Minister should tell all the people who sit up in the gallery and all those who are watching out there and all the 65,000 people who have signed that the Minister is not just filling them with hot air, but that the Minister is going to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193301-2	Thank you for the question. We don't fill anyone with hot air. I am sending out a clear signal today from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that we can back very large elements of what lies in this citizens' proposal. We are not going to vote today. We are going to vote in a few weeks' time or when it will be voted on in the Parliamentary Assembly. Before that, it must also be discussed in the parliamentary committee and there must be a public debate. And I would also like to take a debate with the Danes before we make a final proposal on climate legislation, go out on the roads, also with Mrs Pernille Skipper and others who want to discuss this with the Danes, so that we have a broad public debate on what kind of climate law the Danish Parliament is going to adopt. And there I think the proposal here, the citizens' proposal, is really, really good. There are many good elements here that we would like to move forward in that climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193344	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193347	I would like to begin by commending those who have put forward this citizens' proposal, because they have actually succeeded in something that has not succeeded in the rest of us for four years, and that is moving the government on the issue of a climate bill. I now hear a minister at last saying that he would like to have a climate bill. In the past one has made fun of the idea that Denmark should have its own climate law, but as usual it is about very fine words for the government, but very little about action. I would like to point out to the Minister that there is Danish climate legislation now. There are none of these six things that we could not vote through today and say that these six things are a minimum to be done. What it looks like when you make five-year sub-targets is what you could use a little longer to qualify. So I will come back and then try to be specific to the Minister, because right now it is very, very easy words coming and we think it sounds very good. So let me hold the Minister up to paragraph 2: five-year sub-targets must be set up at least 15 years. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193448	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken for her question. We are not opposed to this. It could be an option. For us, it is crucial that we achieve the objectives. We have set a target, also with the Radical Left: climate neutrality in 2050. We have a target of 100 percent green electricity by 2030. If there is a need for mechanisms and some reflections on how we are going to follow up on how far we are in achieving those objectives, then this is a discussion we are open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193521	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193522	The minister has what the government now has, they want to do something, but not right now. It was a million electric cars that were promised from the Parliament's platform by the Prime Minister himself. When the proposal was then presented with the negotiations, it gave 1,000 electric cars a year, so at that rate it would take approx. 1,000 years to reach the Prime Minister's goal. So it is very good that you can stand there and say it in 2050, but it is actually the way it says in this proposal that the next five to ten years are crucial. Then the Minister could not tell us what he has in mind and whether he takes it seriously that action should be taken now? Could one not make it a little clearer that this can actually be voted through as it is now? Again, I would like to follow up Mrs Pernille Skipper's question: why does the government not just vote through this proposal? So what is it that cannot be supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193618-2	Thank you for the question. There are plenty of elements in this citizens' proposal that we can support. When I look down over it, there aren't a lot of things about immediate reading in this, we can't back up a hundred percent. That is also why we are putting forward a proposal for a new climate law. We've moved to this point. We have moved in relation to the need for concrete action. That is also why we have come up with a climate initiative that will close the task towards 2030. That is also why I am sending out a clear signal today that we are prepared to increase the level of ambition, that we are pushing for the European Union to increase its ambition, and that means that individual countries will also increase their ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193659	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193703	The Minister said in his speech that this is the most ambitious and the greenest government ever in the history of Denmark, and the Prime Minister said earlier today that the government will present a Climate Act 2.0. That's two amazing statements. I just want to ask the Minister, since you are now the most ambitious and green and climate-friendly government and you want to make a Climate Act 2.0: Do you recognize climate law 1.0, which the previous government SF, Social Democracy and Radical Left voted through with Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party? Does the government now recognise this as an ambitious basis on which to build?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193753	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193754	To this is the answer: yes, we recognise it, and we believe that there is a need to strengthen the climate law that exists, make it even more ambitious. So, of course, we support the government's climate legislation, and our intention is to put forward a bill this autumn with a new climate law that will be even more ambitious, both in terms of delivering on Danish targets and in terms of Denmark's international efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193823	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193824	It was a huge concession, close to a choice, and very close to all Danes shouting for green solutions. Nevertheless, I am a little happy inside, because, as Mrs Auken said earlier, both the Radical Left, the SF and other parties have repeatedly called for the government to recognise the first Climate Act, which has been rejected over and over again, that one should live up to 40%. in 2020. That is why it is interesting to ask: What should the next chop be? It must be discussing five-year goals. That must be discussing the milestones. Will the government compare the Paris agreement with five-year goals? And when the government praises this citizen's proposal, it would be obvious to ask about that little detail: is there anything in this that you disagree with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193923	Thank you for the question. When I look down over the citizen's proposal, and when I look at the direction and intention of it, it has the government's support. On the question of sub-targets: it is also something we are prepared to discuss whether is the right way. For us, it is crucial that we reach the goal and, of course, the milestones can be that we assess on an ongoing basis. It's one of those things. also in the government's own climate project that we sit down three times before 2030 • in 2022, 2024 and 2027 • and assess how far we have come in terms of meeting the goals. So it is not far off for us to look at whether we should then add some figures in each year.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226193959	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194001	Thank you. When I meet some people, and things are going a little slow, I usually say that they were born in the wheelbarrow's sign; you have to lift them up and push them forward. But I would like to offer to help push that wheelbarrow if otherwise the Minister wants to get hold of it as well. Can we not be a little more specific? Let's roll up our sleeves and get started right away. There is no point in setting up a commission to discuss some fine plans when we know what needs to be done. We're gonna have to get some electric cars out of here, and we're gonna have to stop the diesel jacks and the petrol trucks. The minister was very reluctant when Enhedslisten put forward a proposal that we should boost the market, in other words promote the development of those cars. The first 250,000 cars we will grant a grant of up to DKK 100,000. To, when you buy them and go from a diesel car or a petrol car to an electric car. Why was the Minister so reserved instead of rolling up his sleeves and saying: 'Well, that was a good proposal; it is not enough to reach 1 million electric cars and I would like to go further yet?' But shouldn't we take that notch first, since it's right on the surface to get started? I talked to some Western Jutlanders about it, and they were very excited to get started, if of course we could make sure they had a car to drive when the public traffic was not so good out in West Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194117	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194117-2	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl for that question. Now nothing is easier here in the Folketing than to distribute money, and that is what Enhedslisten is busy doing now. In relation to electric cars, I think that if we have to get more of them rolling, the prerequisite is that there is a technology development • batteries running longer per year. kilowatt-hour, I'd have almost said and that the price of the electric cars is coming down. That is why it is also absolutely crucial for us to have the energy agreement, which also Enhedslisten is part of our commitment to ensuring that there is an infrastructure so that you can load your electric car with a speed charger wherever you are in Denmark. That is why the Energy Agreement also contains a number of measures in relation to this, including the energy sector. a roll-out of electric chargers of 80 million. kr. This is one way to ensure that there is an infrastructure for electric cars, and that means that on the day the ketchup comes out of the bottle, I had almost said, with regard to the deployment of electric cars, and I have an expectation of that happening very soon, and we really will have these efficient electric cars that the Danes can pay for, so also have an infrastructure that can handle it. In fact, I think that is where there is a political task.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194218	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194219	I should therefore like to greet some of the Minister's constituents and say that where the hurdle is in connection with an electric car at the moment, it is getting it together to buy one. They are too expensive and therefore it is perhaps a good idea to boost the market so that demand increases so that more people take the leap and see that something could actually be done. Does the Minister really think that without economic investment he can boost that market? Or does he think it's coming all by itself? In other words, if you have an ambition to want to drive 1 million electric cars in the longer term, then there must be quite different tactics than what is happening at the moment. It's all going too slow. Doesn't the Minister agree with that? It's going way too slow.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194304	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194305	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We've done something, too. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have made a tax exemption for registration fees this year and next year for cars up to DKK 400 000, and this actually means that a family can buy an electric car today, also an average electric car as a good family car, to about DKK 250,000. I've done it myself, and at the moment I'm trying to rent one. It is actually a very good car and it is absolutely competitive with a similar car on petrol or diesel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194338	Then we say thank you to the Minister and then we start the rapporteur's line. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194404	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor and, above all, thank you to the many, many thousands of Danes who have signed that we need more ambitious climate legislation. When I checked it just before I came up here, it was 65,867 citizens who had shouted in the megaphone and told us in the Folketing that there is a need for action. That is a serious background, it has to be said. We have a great many and more and more and more clear scientific reports that show that we need to speed up and that we need to spread the effort. Everyone has to contribute to this transition. As is also stated in the citizens' proposal, it is the next 10-15 years that will decide if we succeed in doing so. I have said this before, and there are others before me who have said that it is very apt that we are the first generation to really feel climate change and that we are actually the last one to do something about it. That's why we can't pass that assignment or bill on to anyone after us. I would say, then, that the citizens' proposal has not only been made against a serious background, but also against a boring background, because it is unfortunately an expression of the fact that the whole community around us, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk also mentioned, does not see that what the government provides is enough. After all, it is extremely worrying, serious and boring that citizens have to say: we need to do much more than what the responsible politicians, those who are responsible right now, do. It has been calculated that at the government's pace it will take 95 years and 7 months before we get down to net zero before we reach the target. We don't have that many years. It has also been confirmed by the government and in response to questions made clear that by 2030 our emissions of CO2 t will lower than today. So over the next 11 years, the government is counting on reducing our emissions by 6 million. a. The problem is that almost 40 tonnes are missing when we reach 2030, and that says all about the pace. That is also what the former chairman of the Climate Council pointed out, and he also said that now we are reducing the pace to a quarter. And then we ended up in a situation where the Minister first called the Climate Council's criticism gibberish, and then the President was not reappointed. It is clear that people out there are worried, because this government has actually halved energy research when it arrived, tried to cancel offshore wind farms and dropped the carbon phase. And now, when we talk about climate legislation, we actually came to the climate summit in Paris as the only country with a lower target than we had the previous year, because the government we have now did not support the climate law we have today and the 40-percent target. So while the rest of the world's leaders said that now we need to turn up our ambitions, we came down there with a lower target. My old colleagues in the European Parliament came and said: what is going on in relation to Denmark as a pioneer country? We need to speed up, we need to spread our efforts, and then we are • and that is very important in this citizens' proposal • need to have transparency. We need to be able to see that things are actually moving forward. We need to be able to measure that the government is actually delivering, and that is perhaps one of the key issues. That is probably why we are a few who have asked the government whether they want to set national targets for the climate and whether they want to ensure that there are carbon budgets, as it is so finely called, so that you can see how much CO2 that is the problem here. We have written a proposal for adoption, including these proposals from the Climate Act. Now we come to the question debate afterwards, but we have done so in order to stress that we are in fact in agreement with this citizens' proposal. We agree that we must support this proposal and vote it through and ensure that it becomes a reality. I think that the government could say a little more clearly that it actually thinks so, rather than just saying that some of it is supported. If there is one element that the government would like to see taken out, then we are happy to negotiate on it, and then I think we should say what element we should take out so that we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194900	There is one brief comment. Here you go, sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194904	It is quite true that the opposition together has produced a text and it is simply so wonderful. Therefore, the question I would like to put to the Social Democratic Party now should not be seen as teasing. Because it's actually not. However, it is about the fact that the Social Democrats, together with us and some of the other opposition parties, have helped to vote in favour of extending the extraction of oil in the North Sea. And everyone knows that if you talk to climate science, they say: Let the fossil energy stay in the ground. With everything we know today, would the Social Democrats also vote today for a North Sea agreement? Or, if you could undo that deal, would you do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226194958	In other words, when we support that agreement in the North Sea, it is because we believe that the way we can and must reduce the consumption of fossil fuels is by reducing demand worldwide. You could also say it a little more popular: we are actually trying to destroy our own business. Because we are actually trying to avoid making agreements, which means that what is going on in the North Sea is going to be a worse and worse business. But it is also clear that we are spending the money we are getting into the taxation of oil in the North Sea to actually boost our green conversion. And that is why we thought it was a sensible way of doing it in the transition, where it is indeed increasing what we can do from green employment, including in the North Sea, fortunately. It should then, like, replace the employment we have had in fossil energy. But we do not believe that as a country we can change the consumption of fossil fuels that is, because some others will then produce it. And that is why we are really gaining more by trying to push consumption down internationally, and as long as we contribute to the market and deliver fossil fuels, we must, of course, ensure that the money we earn from it is invested in converting this economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195127	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195129	If I understand correctly, we would actually be voting today for the extension of the North Sea Agreement. That's how I hear the answer. It is surprising, I think, with what we know from all those who know much more than we who sit in this room, namely climate science. But what I also want to say is: if there is any unfairness in the world today, it is of course that those who already feel climate change the hardest are the poorest parts of the world; those who have made the least climate footprints are those who feel climate change first. So the question to the Social Democratic Party is: what are the considerations of social democracy in terms of increasing climate aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195224	First of all, it's a little hard to tell. I actually understood the question before as a question of whether we regret the agreement we have reached. And no, we do not, because we believe that the most effective way is actually to destroy the fossil business by setting ambitious targets at a global level. To the extent that oil and gas are supplied globally, those who do so must spend the money they earn on it on making green conversion. So, with regard to climate aid, it is obvious that Mr. Uffe Elbæk is right in saying that some of those hit hardest have no share or have a very small share in the problems, and that Denmark must of course increase its climate assistance. We must do so, both because we are internationally committed to it, but also because we simply cannot afford some of these countries to make the same mistakes we have made during the period of raising their standard of living and getting back on their feet. We certainly have nuances in relation to how close we can link poverty reduction and the fight against climate change, but we fully agree that funds should be used, even more than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195330	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195333	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jens Joel for the speech. Sir. After all, Jens Joel stressed the importance of this being a citizen's proposal and of more than 65 000 citizens signing this. I fully agree with that. This is extremely important, and it's a huge quality of this citizen's proposal. That is also why we, the Conservatives, supported the system of citizens' proposals. I would like to ask Mr. Jens Joel, whether there have been any reflections in the Social Democratic Party in relation to their opposition to citizens' proposals, because this gives us reason to have some debates here in the Folketing that we would not otherwise have had. So, first of all, I would like to hear an answer to that. It was a good talk with back and forth and reflections etc., but I do not have the clear answer as to whether the Social Democratic Party is ready to vote for this citizen's proposal if it comes to the vote. And if that is the case, we are going to give funding for this 5 billion. kr. in climate aid in the project that came from the Social Democratic Party some time ago in relation to the environment and climate? Financing for the 5 billion has been provided. kr. In there?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195436	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195436-2	First of all, on citizens' proposals. It is true that the social democracy was not behind the system of citizens' proposals. I personally think that this citizens' proposal is very welcome and a very good idea, and in that I spend most of my awake time on the climate struggle, I also think it is quite obvious that we are discussing it. I would like to say that I believe that we have these discussions, regardless of the citizen's proposal, and much of what is contained in the citizens' proposal are also things that the Social Democratic Party has proposed. It is just to say that I do not think they are mutually exclusive, and in this situation it is gratifying that we are having another climate debate. Actually, it hasn't been that long since we had a climate debate. There you can say that the Minister is magically more compassionate now, and it may well be because it is a citizen's proposal. It would be nice if the government's attitude to proposals were to change slightly, depending on who has put it forward. The last time, if I may say so, it was just us in the Folketing who had made a question debate about the climate. So I do not think it changes our perception of citizens' proposals, but we would very much like to discuss this here. Then it is clear that when we want to vote in favour of this citizens' proposal, we need to clarify when and with what phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-out phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-out phase-in phase-in phase-out phase-in phase-in phase-in phase-out phase-in phase-in phase. This is, of course, a very specific concern which has not been removed now, but on which we will, of course, be specific before we can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195616	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195617	Thank you for that partial answer, I would say. It is good to recognise the citizens' proposals, in other words that there is a high quality in it. I have some doubts as to how the process of social democracy is going to be from here in relation to this citizen's proposal, that is to say what it is that needs to be clarified. In fact, I think it is fairly clear what it is that is committed to in the citizens' proposal. But I did not get a clear answer as to whether funding has been allocated to it in the plan that came from the Social Democratic Party six months ago or something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195649	That is what we really are asking the government. Well, if it can find a point that you can't. I would say that when we are going to vote in favour of this, we have to make it clear that we do not have 5 billion. kr. to this on January 1st. Does this mean that we do not want to increase climate aid? Does this mean that we do not agree with the citizens' proposal that climate aid should be increased? No, it doesn't mean that. But it is clear that this reservation will have to be taken when you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195723	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195726	Thank you for that, President. After all, the Social Democrat rapporteur plays the usual record of the current government canceling offshore wind farms or at least wind farms. And that is where the rapporteur refers to the coastal windmills, I suppose. And it is also true that our ambition in this way was to try to thwart the fact that we had to place them in completely virginal areas to ensure the popular support for wind turbines and offshore wind turbines. And that is why it raises the question: does the rapporteur really think that you are less green because you want to make offshore wind turbines rather than coastal wind turbines? I mean, it's not like we set up to cancel them. We have just set up a new supply, where they would then have to go further to the sea. It cannot be that wind turbines become less green because there is no popular support for these coastal wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195819	I think, sir. Thomas Danielsen has started campaigning instead. Because what's the matter here is that you can't just move a project. If you ask the Minister, who is responsible for the area, if you can just move with the projects, then of course he says: No, you cannot, because some investors have invested in those projects. So it's kind of easy to believe. Having said that, we have made an energy agreement where we have agreed on offshore wind farms, because that is something we will be investing much more on in the future. In parentheses, the government had an ambition to create an offshore wind farm, and we would like it to become more. Fortunately, many of us wanted to do so in the energy negotiations, which is why it turned into several offshore wind farms. It doesn't change the fact that the government of the then Left Government would cancel these projects. And it was in fact only because a majority in the Folketing, including the Conservatives, maintained the green ambitions and the agreements we had made, and the credibility of the business community's ability to invest, that those projects were implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195924	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226195927	In other words, once again, the Social Democrats seem to need to manipulate the policies of the Left in this area. It is true that the Left said that we must build at least one offshore wind farm as soon as possible. Then we need more. And we expect them to be built free of charge, so it was no problem for us to say three offshore wind farms, as we agreed with the rapporteur's party. But I'm just crying that you need this whole time to manipulate the facts of other politicians and parties. And the facts are not that we have proposed that coastal wind turbines should be moved and that some should be compensated. We proposed that they should be cancelled because we are actually in the unfortunate situation now that we are suddenly experiencing greater and greater popular opposition from, for example, the United Kingdom. Ringkøbing-Skjern Municipality, which is otherwise a very green and wind-positive municipality, because we refuse to turn them into offshore wind turbines. So we suggested that we just drop the project and then turn them into offshore wind turbines later. Secondly, does the rapporteur also spend time talking about canceling climate targets and CO2 but does the rapporteur himself think that it is ambitious to measure on one parameter and one parameter alone? For example: After all, there was plenty of hydropower coming from Norway, and all of a sudden we lived up to the CO2 of the previous government.And, ergo, we were skilful without weighing on the many other initiatives it was important to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200055	Note number two is actually planned to last about half as long as note number one. I'm just going to mention it, and the answers are allowed to reflect the same thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200106	In our proposal, we suggest that you have many goals, because it is wise to have many goals, so that we can manage on several different parameters. What has been our challenge in relation to the government is, of course, that as many objectives as could be achieved have been deleted in order to make it as opaque as possible that one did not deliver on one's policy. And then Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that I'm manipulating Left's statements about one or three offshore wind farms. No, I am just mentioning what we said and what the industry said, namely that we do not want to be told that we will get one, and then there will probably be some more later. We want to know how many we can count on from the beginning. And that is why it was important for us to have three offshore wind farms in the energy agreement and not just the one that was in the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200155	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200159	Thank you. In fact, I would like us to be a little practical, for example. In relation to the big problem. Windmills are important to discuss, and so is agriculture, but with regard to the cars we are going to have on the roads and the old ones we are going to have scrapped, can the rapporteur give me some concrete examples of how this should be done? We have put forward a proposal that we could at least boost the market and then get 250 000 cars to drive. It costs money, of course. I don't think we'll get around it in this case, but we have to make it socially balanced. Has the Social Democratic Party thought in this direction, in other words, as to how we achieve that goal? I believe that the government's goal of 1 million cars is therefore a major goal which we need to do something to achieve, otherwise it will take a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200240	Well, unfortunately, the government's goal didn't turn out to be a target. It was just a fine headline. So when we were in the electric car negotiations, the policy was that it should be 1000 cars and not 1 million cars, and, by the way, it would not be committed to setting a political objective. But what can we do now? In fact, I believe that one of our short-term challenges is that electric cars are still a little more expensive than ordinary cars, regardless of whether tax is paid or not. That is why the Social Democratic proposal is that we try to lure some of those who can actually afford to buy the electric cars, speaking of Christian Juhl's comment on social balance • to buy them. It could be by lowering the tax on green company cars, so you get some company cars driving. It could be by giving the municipalities a cash grant, so that when they switch a petrol car out with an electric car, they get a cash grant. Of course, this will also mean that if you have company cars running for a few years, you will also have used cars on the market, which ordinary people have easier access to, and in this way we will get it started. However, the Social Democrats are honest about the fact that we want to have a binding target for how many electric cars we are going to try to push, and then initiatives must be taken on an ongoing basis. At first it is about getting some of those who can buy electric cars to buy them, and further along the way it will become more accessible to the others because more cheaper and better models will come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200403	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200404	When the rapporteur says tax, what does he mean? Does he mean the tax we pay when we buy the car, or is it the current annual tax or tax we pay on that car? This is a little important because I think that the overcoming that needs to be done has something to do with the price you pay for a new car, and I do not really mind at the same time helping people by lowering it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200428	In other words, I think we are in complete agreement that the buying situation is a serious barrier, not least for those who do not have a very thick wallet. And so it can be said that we have the challenge that, although there is no tax, electric cars are still expensive. There we have to look at how we can then try to lure some of those who can actually pay for them to buy them. So we would like to turn on some handles, of which I mentioned a few green company cars and municipal cars, but of course it is also clear that fortunately there will also be more and more employees who can buy an electric car, and of course we must support that. One of the ways to do this is also to ensure that we are not, as we are today, a black hole in the electric car market. Today, manufacturers are sending their cars around Denmark, and we must ensure that they actually send them here, both with a binding target that we have set and with concrete action we have shown that we want new electric cars to be introduced in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200521	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200524	Thank you. In fact, I would like to return to the coastal windmills, which Mr. Thomas Danielsen mentioned just now. There's a coastal offshore wind farm heading over on the west coast. It has been for a few years. Three years ago, we were at a somewhat earlier stage in the process, where we could still have managed to move these coastal offshore wind turbines further to sea and turn them into real offshore wind turbines. This was proposed by the Danish People's Party, and I can at least remember that the Left proposed it. I would then like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that the Social Democratic Party was one of the parties which blocked the possibility of this being done and that, therefore, we are now getting these coastal offshore wind turbines instead of offshore wind turbines, although it could actually have been possible to move them further out without having to pay any substantial additional price for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200616-2	No, that's not true. You could do it, like sir. Mikkel Dencker says, or as he indicates, has cancelled them. But you couldn't actually, like Mr. Mikkel Dencker says he moved them. Sir. Thomas Danielsen said very precisely that we could have cancelled. Then there was a discussion about what it would mean for the opportunity to invest green in Denmark if you can no longer count on agreements. There is a political agreement that says that we want some wind turbines. There is also a municipal council which says that we want them to be here. It was the municipal councils that chose where they were supposed to be. Then we put a maximum price on the windmills. Then come some private providers and offer cheaper, much cheaper than the maximum price we have set. In this situation, it is very difficult to say to private companies: you may have spent 25 million. kr. on this, but we're not gonna deliver that anyway, because we've changed our mind. It is true that there was a discussion which was both about green conversion, but which was also about confidence in the investments made in Denmark and which are important for future investments, also in offshore wind farms, as Mr. Mikkel Dencker and we also want more in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200729	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200731	Now I am also talking about a stage in the process which is somewhat earlier than where we have reached now and where there has not been a great deal of planning in detail, which has cost a lot of money. At that time it had been possible to drop making coastal offshore wind turbines and have converted it into real offshore wind turbines. But I just want to know if it is not true that the Social Democratic Party was involved in blocking that decision when the Danish People's Party and the Left proposed it a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200759	We could have legally cancelled the agreement at that time. But it is not true that companies had not spent millions of dollars doing the feasibility studies and bidding. It is true that there was a majority in the Folketing, a broad majority who said: when we have set in motion a green transition when we have made an agreement, and there are private companies who have invested two-digit million dollars in this, then of course we have to stand by our agreement if they actually deliver cheaper wind turbines than what we had demanded of them. So that is simply not true when Mr. Mikkel Dencker like indicates you could have moved them. It's a completely different project if you're going to make offshore wind turbines. Hopefully, we will make much more of that forward-looking. But it has nothing to do with the coastal regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200849	That's the last of it. Thank you, sir. Jens Joel, and then we move on to the rapporteur. It's sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226200904	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to sign for the citizens' proposal that we are discussing here. This shows that the climate challenge is an issue that is important for a great many Danes, and this has now been reflected in the citizens' proposal, which has been signed by more than 50,000 Danes. Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? In the Danish People's Party we also think that the climate is important, and in Denmark we must do what we can to stop the human impact on the climate. This is a two-legged effort. One of the two legs is that we have to see what we can do in Denmark to reduce and eventually completely eliminate our emissions of climate gases. The second leg is what Denmark can contribute to the rest of the world by showing how we can have a modern society with a high standard of living without affecting the climate. In other words, it should be the good example to follow for other countries. In the Danish People's Party we will continue the implementation of renewable energy in Denmark, as has happened over recent decades. Today we are in the happy situation that renewable energy such as wind turbines and solar cells has become so cheap in operation that soon there is no longer any reason to support them financially. In other words, the green switch to electricity supply will very soon be able to take place entirely on market terms. As far as the transport sector is concerned, there is still some way to go before fossil fuels can be completely replaced. In these years we see hybrid and electric cars falling in price and increasing the range. But it is still the case that it takes a few years for the shift to take place by itself. In the Danish People's Party we would like to help the development on the way. That is why we want to be able to change the registration tax so that the environmental and climate characteristics of cars are more decisive than is the case today in terms of the level of registration tax. We also believe that the impact of cars on the environment and climate during the production phase, which has often been discussed, should be included in the calculation of the registration fee. As I said just now, we welcome the citizens' proposal here. It addresses many of the problems that are actually present in climate policy and suggests that we need a new climate law in Denmark. In the Danish People's Party, we are fully aware of this discussion. We also recognise that the current Climate Act, adopted in 2014, is not necessarily perfect and that it can easily withstand a critical review. It is in this light that we see the citizens' proposal here. We see this as a kick in the debate on how to organise climate policy. A moment ago, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate was up here on the platform, where he just told us that the government in the next Assembly will put forward a new climate law here in the Things. Before that, the government will conduct a public hearing in which all Danes can speak out and give their opinions in the climate debate. These are initiatives which we in the Danish People's Party welcome. That is why I will wait for the process so that our new climate legislation is as well worked out as possible and with as broad a public participation as it can now be done. We have therefore decided that in this case we are politely rejecting the citizens' proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201226	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201231	It is all very well to be polite, but I know that the rapporteur has been to some climate summits and has also heard that we have an urgent task and that UN climate experts have told us that we have such 10-12 years to really turn the course, and now the Danish People's Party is so obviously open to the slow pace of the government and that there has to be some public hearing when we get to the other side of the autumn vacation. I would really like to hear something from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So, I have noticed that there is a certain debate on climate issues and an increasing concern among the population, and now we have a citizens' proposal which has quickly collected these signatures over 50,000 in just over 14 days. Does the rapporteur not think that there is a major climate debate in the population and that we ought to act now, what should we say?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201342	Yes, I have also discovered that there is a wide-ranging debate in society, and it is probably also the one that is reflected in more and more debates about it in the Danish Parliament. I think it is a fine initiative that the government has put in the sea and we support doing so in this way. It is a fine process in which everyone will be able to speak out, and in which way we can have all the input we can get into the creation of a new climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201412	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201414	Well, it is fine that everyone can speak up, but it is now my impression that everyone has so far had the opportunity to speak up. There has been such a citizens' initiative, where everyone could go on this website and sign it, and there are so many 65 000 people who have done so very quickly. So there is thus an opportunity to speak, and we are faced with a citizens' proposal that a number of green organisations are behind. So why is it that the Danish People's Party will not take this citizens' proposal any more seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201447	I also think that we take the citizens' proposal seriously. Now the citizens' proposal that has been submitted is, in any case, a resolution requiring the government to create a new climate law, and the government has already announced that it would still do so on its own initiative. So I do not think that the adoption of the citizens' proposal is going any faster. What is important for the Danish People's Party is that we get as good a climate law as possible and as good and thorough a process as possible, so that the new climate law must be as thoroughly worked out as we can get it, and we believe that we do so with the process that the government is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201530	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201532	To start with a positive note, I would like to say that it is nice to hear that the Danish People's Party takes both the citizens' proposal seriously and, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, wants a climate policy. When the rapporteur then reads the citizens' proposal, he will see that there are six principles which, together with the text behind it, clarify the proposal, and I would like to ask whether there are any of the six principles that the Danish People's Party disagrees with?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201615	No. I have them here in front of me and there is no one that we directly disagree with, but there are some that we may think are less important, for example. the fact that the Climate Council needs to be strengthened and guaranteed independence. In fact, I think it already is today. The climate law we have from 2014 has already established how the Climate Council should be composed, and we are actually very pleased with that. We like the work of the Climate Council, so we don't think it's that important to change that. Although it hasn't been carved in granite back in 2014, how it should look, it's not something we see much need for. Then there's this thing about the five-year sub-targets for CO2 but the fact that we're reviewing our climate laws is a very good idea, so let's start with it, and let's see what that process leads us to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201723	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201724	That is to say, if I have understood the rapporteur correctly, that with a punch on the bag there are four out of these six cuts that the Danish People's Party agrees with. So with regard to the point about Denmark being a driving force in international climate policy, I would like to ask what the Danish People's Party is thinking there. There is no doubt that in other policy areas the Danish People's Party and the alternative are in different corners of the world, but both parties have a concern for refugees in one way or another. And if there is anything that produces refugees at the moment, it is climate change. So has the Danish People's Party considered how to strengthen climate assistance in the affected areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201818	I can well imagine that we are turning our aid from the developing countries more closely into targeted areas where climate challenges exist, where it is the climate that forces people to look elsewhere. But I think it is fine that the Danish People's Party and the Alternative have some surfaces where we can actually see some perspectives. So, the sixth point, namely that we must be a driving force in international climate policy, is also about showing the good example. We can be proud of how we do it in Denmark so that we can have a modern and high-tech society where we do not compromise our standard of living, but still have as little climate impact as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201903	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201904	It was, in fact, the international thing I was thinking about. Now that the Danish People's Party keeps the government floating, can it not be called "it's not fair to make some demands as well? I was at a consultation last week with the Minister for Development, explaining that it is certainly a good idea to create pig factories in China with the help of the Development Fund and that it is also a very good idea to build coal power plants in Africa. What does the Danish People's Party think of such things? In the first place, it is Denmark that finances it, and secondly, it should also be okay in relation to the climate, said the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226201950	Now I didn't attend the meeting that Mr. Christian Juhl refers to, but what is wrong with building pig farms in China, if that is what you think is optimal? At first sight, I do not think that development aid needs to be used in China. There they may be able to find their own way of producing their food. So I don't quite know what the point was of that idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202016	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202017	I do not know whether the rapporteur sees that it is a problem for us to produce millions of pigs in a country that has lived very well and healthy for centuries of vegetable food. That's crazy. In pig production, you put 7,000 proteins into the pig, and then you get 1,000 out again. It's a gigantic waste of proteins. Apart from that, it is done with the Danish pigs that you get the proteins on the other side of the globe, namely in South America, in the form of soya beans. It is then a total hole in the head in climate when we know we have to switch to even more vegetable food, because the Earth can hold on to that. It can't stand us producing pork for every human being on the planet. As far as coal power plants are concerned, to which the rapporteur did not reply at all, I think it goes without saying that this is not a technology of the future but a technology of the past. And so it is true that the rapporteur was not present in that consultation, and no DFs were there even though it was on such an important issue as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202131	With regard to pig production in China, I have no opinion on what food the Chinese should eat, and if they are fond of pork, I can understand that. However, what we can show the Chinese is perhaps how to run a farm with as low a climate impact as possible. That is where we can lead with the good example and also with how we can set up a society where there is a good and reliable energy supply without having to use coal. We could then take the lead in setting a good example here, for example. to the African countries that want to build coal power stations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202206	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202209	Thank you. The rapporteur says that if we adopt the citizens' proposal here, we will not make that process go faster with hearings and everything else. No, but you don't slow it down either. There is, of course, no contradiction between deciding to vote on this citizens' proposal and at the same time doing a consultation process involving more citizens, more than the 65,000 who have signed and the over a quarter of a million members who are in the green organisations who have put it up even more, that is so nice. This can be done without contradicting the fact that this citizens' proposal is being voted through. So for the Danish People's Party, there is nothing wrong with saying: yes, we are voting for this citizens' proposal because we mean it actually when we say that it is a good idea and then we are part of a process where we then get concrete, exactly what it is for a climate law to be adopted. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202318	Well, I could ask Mrs Pernille Skipper the opposite, if it was not the case with Enhedslisten, that one might as well vote against the citizens' proposal and then support the government's idea, i.e. if it does not produce an equally good result. Now I have mentioned that there are some elements in the citizens' proposal that we are not so enthusiastic about, so we would rather have the process that the government has set up, where it is a more broad process in which no trace has been left in advance, in relation to the direction in which it should specifically go. So that is the way we think we will get the best process and the best result, and I think Mrs Pernille Skipper should acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202356	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202358	Thank you. I would like to repeat what I just said: you can do both. You can support the government's proposals on public hearings and highways as well as what the minister wants to do on a good idea! These things don't stand in opposition to each other, and it's not okay to keep pretending they do. It is true, then, that the Danish People's Party has actually been honest enough to say that such a thing as a sub-target is not equal to the Danish People's Party cup of tea. I think that's exciting. Would the rapporteur not like to clarify whether this is not the same as saying that one does not really want to plan how one achieves it and that one does not want to follow up on how one achieves it on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202440-2	Well, I think that the fact that you do not have very square sub-targets gives you greater flexibility in planning. Because we do not know what technology development will be in ten years' time or 15 years' time, whether there will be something that will be able to make a major breakthrough around the corner. It would then be a pity if we had to spend all our money on achieving a certain goal in a certain year rather than spending the money wisely and reaping the great gain that had to wait perhaps a few more years in the future. So we believe that flexibility is more important than having square targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202513	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202517	Thank you. Now I noticed earlier in the rapporteur's reply to Mr Seligman's question. Uffe Elbæk said that the rapporteur said that some of the Danish aid could be redirected to climate focus on those countries that might be relevant in the climate crisis. But what is the matter with the Paris Agreement is that it is an agreement that additional climate finance is provided, that is to say additional money should be added. So we cannot shift the aid we already have to climate and say that we have now given something to the climate. You have to keep the aid you already had and add something. And I think that this is something for the rapporteur's party that a massive effort can be made to deal with and mitigate some problems relating to immigration, or how can that be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202612-2	Well, I'd like to thank you for sir. Christian Poll's concern to help the Danish People's Party shape our policy. We can find out for ourselves. After all, we have supported the Paris Agreement and also believe that Denmark must live up to it. But we also believe that our aid to developing countries, which all parties in the Folketing agree that we should give to a greater or lesser extent, can easily be channelled into helping people who are affected by climate problems and are thus in the unfortunate situation that they do not think they can live where they really belong. So we think that is the way things can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202656	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202657	Thank you. But then it is not extra support or additional support, and that means that it does not comply with the text of the Paris Agreement. Then I would like to challenge this with climate-friendly agricultural production. I have asked and just received an answer which does not go further than the reply I received from the Minister last year to Question No. 348 about whether Danish agriculture is more or less climate friendly. There was a study that said it was more, and another study that said it was less. So do we have better proof that Danish agriculture should be climate-friendly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202734	I have no documentation I can provide here. Now the questioner also says that there have been answers that have pointed in different directions, but I suspect that with the focus we have in Denmark on energy and climate policy and on energy efficiency, we can expect a more climate-friendly agriculture than in so many other countries, perhaps also more climate-friendly than in China, where we have not had the same focus as we have had for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202805	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202808	Thank you very much. I understand that there was a courtesy to the citizens' proposal, but that there were several things in the proposal that could not be supported. There's a sentence in this citizen's proposal that says: "The next 5-10 years are crucial if we're to prevent the worst consequences for people and nature. I just want to know if the Danish People's Party agrees that the next 5-10 years are crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202829-2	I wouldn't deny that they are. I do not have the opportunity to assess that, but I expect they will be when the citizens' proposers have written it in the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202844	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202844-2	I would then like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party why it is not more busy to adopt a number of things, and why one would just like to wait for the development of technology to succeed for us. Why not adopt it, for example? the proposal that lies here, where a large proportion of the population in a very, very short time has shown us in here what they think we should take responsibility for doing? Why do you not want to listen to the people in this context and say that it is now that it is urgent?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202909	Well, I must say that it certainly also impresses me and the Danish People's Party that so many people have supported the citizens' proposal here. I just do not believe that the adoption of the citizens' proposal necessarily gives us a climate law faster than what the government has proposed. And that will mean a symbolic act to adopt the citizens' proposal before putting into practice the new Climate Law, which the government has also said they will make.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202938	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Mikkel Dencker. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Thomas Danielsen of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226202949	Thank you for that, President. Today we are discussing B 96, which is a draft parliamentary resolution on a Danish Climate Act now, and therefore it is a day of joy. We are faced with the citizens' proposal, which quickly collected the necessary 50,000 signatures, and this is evidence of massive popular support and a massive public commitment. And, of course, we must make positive use of public engagement. We in the Left fully agree with the Danes that we need a new and better climate law. We need a real climate bill that bats something. That is why I am also pleased that it follows that the government presented the first real government plan for the climate and the broadest energy agreement in Danish history. Let us hope that with a new climate law we can reunite the entire Folketing for the sake of the climate and for the sake of the future. This must be done by involving the Danes in the form of local citizens' meetings, and of course we should involve the proposers. That is why I strongly recommend that we in the Committee on Climate Affairs invite the proposers to the committee as soon as possible, where we can discuss different options with them and their thoughts and motives for the individual sub-areas. I have already had a meeting with several of the proposers, and it is a pleasure to feel their commitment. I would like to highlight a few common concerns. For example: writes the proposers that we must strengthen the independence of the Climate Council, precisely a point on which we in the Left are very much in agreement. It simply does not help that the debate can continue that the Climate Council is only independent if it alone is the one wing of the Folketing that has appointed all members. Perhaps we should go back to the model proposed by the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government in the first place, where it was a non-politically appointed council that was to carry out the task at least until Enhedslisten got a finger on the game. In addition, there are dangers in measuring Denmark's climate success on CO 2 2 Takes there e.g. actions that crowd out biomass will not be rewarded. On the other hand, Denmark's climate effort will be rewarded if there is much rainfall in Norway, which gives a lot of hydropower, or if we run into a new financial crisis that reduces production from Danish companies. That is not ambitious enough. Therefore, I think it is important that we have a climate law that measures more nuanced on Denmark's climate action. But I look forward to discussing all this with the proposers, the Danes around the country and, of course, the other parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203301	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203303	After all, I was very excited when the Minister for Climate Affairs said that the first Climate Act of 2012 was supported. We can call it a positive climate law version 1.0, and the citizens' proposal can then be called Climate Law version 2.0. In the Climate Act, the law notes § 1, the law on Climate Councils etc., and now I read aloud: The law is intended to help drive Denmark's climate policy forward. This presupposes that the Minister for Climate, Energy and Building will in future set at least every five years national climate objectives with a 10-year perspective towards the Folketing. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: when will it come, when has it been said that the climate legislation is actually being accepted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203357	Thank you for that, President. Well, it's not a worry that the Left has alone. One can take the article of Everything from last week, where two professors have the same concern and where they stress that it is without real commitments and that there are no concrete objectives for politicians to follow. And that is what we have also problematized by the former government's Climate Act. It is, of course, that it is very general objectives that are intended to measure the success criteria, which is why, tragically, it resulted in a year of high rainfall in Norway actually reaching the CO2 level.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203452	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203453	I'm a little confused. I am not at all sure that the rapporteur heard what I asked. For it is written in the Climate Act, which the Left has just accepted, that every five years national objectives must be set and followed up. And in the answer given by the Minister for Climate Affairs to the Danish Parliament, the Minister for Climate Affairs says that greenhouse gas emissions are increasing in 2022 and 2023. So this means that there is a little urgency about the national objectives, because that is going in the wrong direction. And now the Left has said that they are in favour of the Climate Act or was it just said by the rapporteur that they are not in favour of the Climate Act? Because it will be if you do not believe in the five-year objectives. I really think it is very appropriate, after the rapporteur has just spoken black for 21⁄2 minutes, that I get an answer to: do you support climate law 1.0, i.e. The five-year objectives, too, and do you have anything to show that it is going in the right direction in 2022 and 2023, contrary to the response that has come to the Folketing, or will the rapporteur continue to speak black?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203604	So, I simply do not approve of the need to speak unsympatheticly about your colleagues, as I do at least endeavour to answer the questions. And if I did not focus on what the questioner actually asked about in the first place, then I am delighted that the questioner is asking again. And if you're going to take the five-year objectives, it's 2019 that they're going to be done. The government is proposing a climate plan 2.0, which is why they will naturally come this year, i.e. 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203638	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203641	What made me just rise up to ask a question was the rapporteur's emphasis on the desire to strengthen the Climate Council and ensure its independence. Everyone in here knows that there has been a huge discussion about the Climate Council and the way in which the former chairman of the Climate Council was fired or walked, or whatever to call it. In the media, in the research environments, the whole process was questioned in this Chamber. How, then, can we understand the rapporteur's enthusiasm for ensuring the independence of the Climate Council? How is that supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203728	It should be understood that the concern of the Left is that time and again the independence of the Climate Council has been called into question. It's fine that we in this House decide that the Climate Council is independent, and that's what we're working on assuming it is. I agree with the rapporteur on this point. The problem is, of course, that all the way back from the drafting of the Climate Act, it has been questioned that it was a political appointment of some members that came very suddenly when Enhedslisten was about to interfere with the government base of the previous government, because the previous government started writing in 2011 that it was a resort area that was to be extended to the Environmental Economic Council. And when the law came to the Assembly Hall, Mr. Per Clausen, then rapporteur on the proposal, was disappointed that it was the Environmental Economic Council which was supposed to provide this climate advice, that is to say independent advice, and was pleased that it had appointed its own professors in the field or professionals, specialists in the field. It's just facts. And, of course, it is sad that one can question the independence of the Climate Council. That is what the authors of the motion for a resolution also stress here, namely that it is not appropriate to do so, whether or not it is because the Minister has now appointed one member and so it is not only the left in the Folketing that appoints all the members more. Whatever the discussion is about, we should not be able to discuss the independence of the Climate Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203900	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203900-2	Well, then, we can agree on that, that is, the ambition itself. I simply did not understand all the intercepts that were communicated, but we can take that at another time. If the rapporteur looks back at the whole process, where at least the general public was given the clear impression that the President was fired because the Climate Council expressed a criticism of the government's climate policy, what has the government learned from this whole matter? The rapporteur should not go into the actual course of his reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226203939	I can't answer on behalf of the government, but I can answer on behalf of myself and the Left. I note that if it is a civil minister who appoints a Member, then it is political interference, but if it is only the left who appoints all Members, then it is politically independent. This is evidently the problem that we are discussing, that is to say that it is a bourgeois minister who has appointed a member of the Climate Council today. Moreover, the statutes state that a President is to be appointed for the next year. What is referred to in relation to the inter settlements is that in the government basis of the Helle Thorning-Schmidt government it is clear that the Climate Council's task is to be extended as a resort for the Environmental Economic Council, and as the matter is then dealt with in the Assembly Hall, Per Clausen is pleased that it will not be the Environmental Economic Council anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204030	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204031	Well, Enhedslisten is happy to get advice from more. Now we are in a situation where we have the Environmental Economic Council, which makes recommendations, and Enhedslisten has actually taken their recommendations on a CO2 We also listen to the Climate Council and look at their factual presentations of what is the problem. They are trying to follow up on what is the Danish effort and what are the international commitments. I think it was a little thought-provoking when they made their report and pointed out that we have made an energy agreement that caused a crack on the curve, so that it has actually had an effect that we had an energy agreement. And then we have the government's initiative on climate change. Here you almost had to have a magnifier to see that there was an effect of that play. It was a graph, which probably some in the government didn't like... it seemed that way. I would like to hear from the rapporteur of the Left whether it is not an advantage to get good advice from more people. We, as politicians, have the opportunity to be critical of what is going on and then take it into our discussions and negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204143-2	So, the graph to which Enhedslisten's rapporteur refers is, of course, a graph that is shown by the government's own reports in this area. So I do not understand that the questioner is suggesting that it was a graph that gave rise to anger on the part of the government. Of course, it is a good idea for us to have climate advice. That is also what we welcome from the Left and from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204217	Then there must be no problem in supporting this citizens' proposal, where one of the points is that the Climate Council must be strengthened and guaranteed independence. It's a statement that's part of this citizen's proposal here. The emphasis here is on making some good plans for five years and on following up on achieving your goals. There you can have the Climate Council as an independent expertise, looking for whether you reach the goals that are there. Can the rapporteur not support the intentions of the citizens' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204255	The rapporteur certainly can. That is also why, in his speech, the rapporteur made it clear that we are more in favour of the Helle Thorning-Schmidt Government's first idea of allowing it to be a body such as this. The Environmental Economic Council, which appoints itself. It is not a minister who has to appoint a President or Members so that political independence cannot be called into question. That is why we are fighting for and welcoming the proposal to ensure a greater degree of independence. That is where the benefit lies from the Environmental Economic Council, i.e. they appoint themselves. It is not a minister who appoints them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204335	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204339	The rapporteur stumbled close to saying that the former chairman of the Climate Council, Peter Birch Sørensen, was stumbling near Enhedslisten's invention. I would just like to ask what has happened since it is no longer considered that Peter Birch Sørensen is independent, that is, since the years 2004-2009, when he was the chief judge of the Economic Council under a government which, I am familiar with, is the Left Government. There one was confident that he could control the overall economic picture, but when he became chairman of the Climate Council, it was no longer thought that he was an independent voice that the government trusted. Will the rapporteur explain what has happened between 2009 and 2019 in relation to confidence in the former Chairman of the Climate Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204427	Well, I'm very puzzled that all the questions are practically such a form of interpretation of something other than what I'm saying. I actually think it's very simple. All you have to do is deal with what I'm saying. I mean nothing but what I'm saying. I have at no time indicated that Peter Birch Sørensen was not worthy of the task. On the contrary, you can read articles in the newspaper Information and all sorts of other places where I stress that no one questions Peter Birch Sørensen's qualifications, independence or otherwise, but that we mourn that it can be discussed at all whether the Climate Council is independent, whether it is because it is a bourgeois minister who has appointed a member or a minister on the left who has appointed a member.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204516	Then we have to note that the rapporteur has difficulty explaining to a whole Parliament how it is connected, because it was at least three of us who had to take the floor afterwards to clarify what it was that the rapporteur actually replied to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. We can now find out that it was not a problem with the qualifications of the current President that led the government to decide that he would not be reappointed. Could it then be that it was because this independent Climate Council had said that the government slowed down to a quarter of the existing pace based on the government's own figures from the climate and air play? Could it be that it was so unpleasant to be told from one's independent advice that one thought: Now we simply designate another?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204601	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204607	Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to Mrs. Pernille Skipper from Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226204622	I shall have my first rapporteur's speech on climate change, and I would like to celebrate this by reading out a very good quote from the Minister for Climate Change, whom I have carried with me since August, where he said: I think we should do everything in our power at all. We have an obligation to do so in relation to giving a land and a world to our children and grandchildren who are in a good condition. We are simply obliged to do all we can for this. That is so right, and yet the government is not voting for this citizens' proposal as I have at least understood it. I think it is a very important citizen's proposal of the many who have been here. It's got massive support. In a really short time, 65,000 people have signed. It's 11 green organisations, each with their own approach, that have joined together in this. So it is not a single organisation that works with the area, but virtually all of them that we have in Denmark. Together they represent many, many hundreds of thousands of members, and they come along with demands from strikers and all the people who stand out in front of Christiansborg every Thursday morning, which I know the Minister and the others have also come across. There is a good reason why there is so much talk about it and that there are so many people trying to pressure us in here to do something. Climate change requires much more than fine speeches. This requires much more than long-term goals. This requires that we start to become more concrete here and now and that we get the discussion started on what sort of instruments we have to tackle over the next 2, 3, 4, 5 years. That is why I personally believe that an important part of this citizens' proposal is that we start continuously following up and ensuring that we not only reach the goal by 2050, but also get the right way there. At the same time, it is important for us to say that when we go through a green transition, it must be done with social balance. There are a lot of people sitting outside Christiansborg looking at the debates about the climate that have reached a higher retirement age after the economic crisis; whose welfare is worse; who see savings in their children's education and think whether they should now have the bill again. We must make that very clear from in here that they should not. That bill must be distributed much more fairly. There are very many good reasons why a binding climate law would be a good basis for making good, concrete choices. One of them is that it is one of the only ways we can make sure that the Danish Parliament's calculator works climate-friendly, so to speak. When a bill is tabled in the Folketing, we always calculate it with its financial consequences. Nothing is adopted in here without it being funded. If we spend money on something, we will find them elsewhere and we will have to have the same responsible approach to the climate. Although we know that we have a lot of emissions to do well, we do not calculate how much we increase it when we adopt a legislative proposal and we do not find reductions elsewhere. We shall begin to do so. I think it has been an exciting day to discuss this bill, also because there have been so many good explanations from the government during the day about what is exactly wrong. Firstly, the climate minister said that we were already well on the way. Well, that's definitely wrong. We all know that this government is in charge of slowing down the pace to just under a quarter of what has been achieved so far. Then the Minister said that the objectives already exist. That's not true either. We do not have national binding reduction targets. Then the Minister said that it is not usual at all to do such a thing in the Danish Parliament. It is therefore also wrong; we have a budget law which precisely sets the framework for economic policy and which means that there is very, very strict regulation on what municipalities can do in the economic field, for example. Of course, we can also do so when it comes to climate. And then the last one, and that is the argument that stands by now, is that you really intend to do everything in this motion for a resolution. I have to say that if we do not want to vote in favour, the Minister must be able to answer the problem of the motion for a resolution. The Minister has not yet done so, and it is therefore a little embarrassing when, at the same time, you are a minister of a government which has set up a Transport Commission to think about things and which will look for solutions in relation to agriculture • a minister who needs time and again more reflection, even if he is oh and oh so green.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205200	Thank you. We are not working with extended speaking time today. There are some questions. The first is from sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205208	Thank you for that, President. The rapporteur has now made clear several times through the rapporteur's speech that the government will vote against the resolution. Now I represent one of the parties in the government and have certainly not got the impression that we are voting against the resolution. Where exactly did the rapporteur get the idea that we should vote against the resolution? On the contrary, we have only shown enthusiasm for the motion for a resolution, even so much enthusiasm, that we acknowledge by making it clear now that we intend to make a climate law which takes all this into account. And yes, it may be a good idea to have qualified several of the points so that it is not each party that has its own interpretation of what each point means. But we have only shown enthusiasm for the resolution, so I do not understand how the rapporteur can conclude that it is because we are voting against the resolution. Is it because you want the government to vote against the resolution that you insist on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205313	No, by no means. I am sorry, but I simply got the impression that the government would vote against, because when I asked the Minister if the Minister would vote in favour, he did not answer yes. But if so, sir. Thomas Danielsen now says that the government will vote in favour, I shall be the first to apologize for misunderstanding the full, comprehensive debate, and how happy it is that we have a united Parliament which will vote through this citizens' proposal with these six concrete principles. Then we can finally develop more on it. Oh, that's brilliant. Then we vote it through; then there is a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205351	My point is that you can already hear that there are different interpretations of what to put in the various points. In any case, I personally think it is a good idea to get this done, among other things. by including the proposers who are on the citizens' proposal, to get them into the Energy, Supply and Climate Committee, so that the proposal can be discussed, etc. We have shown only great enthusiasm. That is just why I was sorry that the rapporteur could then conclude that we are voting against, which cannot be concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205426	I simply do not know what the government is voting now. I don't know. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205438	We must leave that open. Thank you for your efforts, Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226205500	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry it took a while to get here. I got the impression that there were more questioners on the list. The resolution here is based on a so-called citizens' proposal tabled by the 92 Group, a group of Danish NGOs, and it has received the support of more than 50,000 Danes and many thanks for it. Now, of course, we here in the Danish Parliament must respond to and acknowledge that there is certainly a concern among the population about the increasingly obvious global warming, and it is we as political leaders who must inspire constructive optimism and ensure a hope and therefore support for action. Because it is not Armageddon, it is not the end of Earth or mankind that we face. Green conversion is a common international challenge, for we all affect the climate a little bit • some of course more than others • with the CO2 but together all humanity has soon 7.7 billion people • of course a great impact on nature, environment and climate. It would certainly not quite live up to our own self-conception if that were not the case. There is also talk of baptizing the epoch we live in in research environments for anthropocene, which makes sense. That is why it makes good sense that it is a human and therefore a political task to act. The climate agenda is important now and it is important for many years to come. It takes far-reaching action to meet the challenges posed by global warming. That is all the more reason why politically reinforced international framework conditions should be put in place and that we should then allow the market to drive the transition to the net zero-emission society on which we in Denmark at least agree. After all, for the whole of the Danish Parliament, we agree on a net zero emission target by 2050, which is in line with the Paris Agreement. Long-term objectives with built-in flexibility that take technology and market development into account are important, as this gives us a cost-effective green transition. Short-term and very firm and detailed target requirements give less political freedom and flexibility to act in relation to technology and market development, making the green transition expensive and inefficient and therefore also slower. And that's kind of the worst thing that can happen. For yes, the pace obviously means something, and internationally we must act more quickly across all sectors, otherwise it may indeed be difficult for us to achieve the EU's overall objective of reducing climate gases. These are objectives which will, far along the way and necessarily and expectably, be reinforced, as is also provided for in the Paris Agreement, as well as product standards and requirements, for example. CO2 emissions from cars An overall EU objective and incentive structure for carbon build-up in agricultural land and in our forests should be shaped. In the EU framework, we need to ensure development support in order to increase security of supply and access to CO2 in the Liberal Alliance, as I have already said, we are very open to having a recurring evaluation of whether the existing climate law actually meets the political intentions. That is why I am also pleased that the government will actually present a thoroughly worked out bill for a new climate law based on the input of as many experts and stakeholders as possible, including the organisations behind the so-called citizens' proposal. Before that, the government will take the initiative for a public hearing in which all Danes can speak with a kick in to climate policy in Denmark and to the new Climate Act. I support the fact that, at a start, we should actually invite the representatives of the organisations that have put forward the so-called citizens' proposal to a meeting of the committee in order to clarify the content. And, as I also said a short time ago, when we had a climate policy statement in this Chamber, our goals in the Liberal Alliance are solid climate reconciliation, where action is based on consensus among responsible parties rather than on brawls and clashes in the domestic political battlefield. That is why the Liberal Alliance is also very much looking forward to the forthcoming discussions in committee with the organisations behind the so-called citizens' proposal and for a public hearing on the Climate Act and for the current government to put forward a thoroughly worked out proposal for a new climate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210036	You're welcome. There are three brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210040	When I look at the citizen's proposal that we have got in our hands here, I think it is actually fairly clear. I understand, then, from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, that we would like to have a dialogue in committee and that we look forward to the government coming up with some new climate legislation. But we do have this specific proposal, which we are now going to have to deal with. It has so far been a little difficult to hear clearly what was the Left's position on it, but we can of course face the fact that the proposal, as it is now, will be put to the vote in the Parliamentary Assembly, and there the Enhedslisten intends to vote in favour. We can easily unfold it in a different way so that we can follow-up every year or every two years, but there is a fairly specific proposal here, so I would like to hear what the Liberal Alliance would vote if this proposal, as it now stands, were to come to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210157	As the resolution is here and now, the Liberal Alliance would not vote for it. Instead, we wanted it to go through a committee process, which the questioner also mentions in this context, and we would probably table some amendments to it. Sir. Thomas Danielsen mentioned before inviting the stakeholders behind the citizens' proposal to visit the committee, and I certainly support this, and I support the fact that we can have some solid discussions with other stakeholders also in the committee before we come to the second reading of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210242	So the Liberal Alliance will not vote in favour as the proposal stands now. What is to happen to amendments to the proposal in order for the Liberal Alliance to vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210256	As I also indicated in my rapporteur's speech, we consider it to be one of the most appropriate in terms of political flexibility and political freedom, that there are as long-term objectives as possible, and in relation to what I think is called 5-year CO2 I personally am also very sorry that the Climate Council and some of the political trumpets that have been involved in the proposed resolution have been involved, whether the Climate Council should be independent or independent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210343	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210345	Thank you very much for a clear answer. The Liberal Alliance will not vote for the citizens' proposal as it stands now. Thank you for that clear answer. Then perhaps the Liberal Alliance can clarify whether they are part of the government and that therefore it also means that the government will not vote in favour of this proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210404	At any rate, I can clear it up so far that the Liberal Alliance is part of the sitting Triple Government. What is the position of the other parties in the Folketing on the specific motion for a resolution is, after all, a question that Mrs Ida Auken has to put to the rapporteurs of the other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210422	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210424	The government must forgive that we are simply confused at a higher level. For the Liberal Alliance will not vote in favour, and the Left rapporteur says that you have not said that you are not in favour, but you cannot get the Minister to say that you are in favour either. Is it one government, or is it just three parties that vote separately, and do you in the government now disagree so that you cannot even find out how to deal with such a relatively simple proposal? Is that correct, or is there some sort of clarification I missed in this debate? Can the rapporteur clarify these things for me? Perhaps I am just as confused as Enhedslisten's rapporteur after trying to find out what the various parties in the government think.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210502	Now, as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I represent the Liberal Alliance, and now I tell Mrs Ida Auken that, as the resolution is here, the Liberal Alliance will not vote in favour of it. But we will enter into a committee process in which we will probably also table amendments or other, so that we can have the resolution turned in a more liberal direction, it might be described as. Perhaps you could even imagine that you could get it in such a way that all the parliamentary parties could vote for it at some point, and I hope that we can have a constructive committee process about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210542	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210551	I also need to hear a little more about this process, which the rapporteur highlights should be so good that it is now being sent here in a citizen's hearing. Because it is already the case that this proposal comes from some citizens. Not only has more than 60 000 signed, but it has also been put forward by organizations representing a quarter of a million citizens or of that size in Denmark. How do you want to ensure in a citizen's hearing that you get out to even more people? And perhaps even more interesting: how will the answers that then come from the citizens be weighted in terms of making this better or worse or more sharper? Or what do you expect from this process, and how will these hearings be weighted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210642	As far as the process is concerned, I am very pleased that we also have the alternative in the Folketing. For now I actually know that exactly the alternative is very good at this kind of engaging process. In fact, I recall that, when we last had the climate policy statement, it was not so long ago that a proposal was put forward by means of a very commendable and engaging process, I think, perhaps in reality a kind of climate policy workshop, where a text had been drawn up as a whole. So we probably have the opportunity in committee to draw on the good experience of the Alternative with such consultations and involving processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210740	My point here is, of course, that in this proposal we have a very large amount of support from the citizens of Denmark, namely this quarter of a million, who are members of, or are somehow active in, these movements that are behind the proposal. Does the rapporteur think that this citizen's proposal could be tightened up in relation to meeting the Paris agreement? Or perhaps asked in another way: are the elements of the agreement here not clear enough for us to be able to live up to the Paris Agreement if we adopt it in its form? And can we further develop, possibly on the basis of input from the citizens in this process?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210830	I am not quite sure that I understand the questioner as to whether the citizens' proposal is in line with the Paris Agreement. As such, I do not believe that there are any elements in the citizens' proposal that there should be direct compliance with the Paris Agreement. But what is the point, and indeed the Minister's, is that we will involve the entire Danish population and that we will not be content with the 250 000 citizens, as Mr. Christian Poll believes is represented through these NGOs who have put forward the citizens' proposal that we are dealing with here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210921	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226210924	I was a little pleased that the Liberal Alliance could give a clear answer, namely that the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal. I am, of course, sorry, but that was a clear answer, and I very much appreciate that. The Liberal Alliance then says that it may well be that later it will be possible to back it up. That is why I would like to ask: what does it take for the Liberal Alliance to back it up later? What are the liberal elements that need to be included in the bill in order for the Liberal Alliance to be able to support it? It would be great if everyone could back it up. We do not know what the Left wants to do; we really do not know what the Left wants to do and we are still waiting to hear what the Consevatives want, but the Liberal Alliance has reported clearly and they have said that there is an opening, and I am very interested to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211014	I think it is wonderful when we can make each other happy in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I will try to do that again another time, I will say to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. Of liberal elements, as I indicated, and as I have already said in an answer to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, mentioned here with the objectives and the question of their relevance when they are long-term, in relation to when they are short-term. And, as I said before, I think it is most appropriate for us to stick to a long-term objective for which, politically speaking, we can more easily act agile and which, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, will actually help to increase the cost-effectiveness of the green conversion so that the green conversion does not become expensive and ineffective. This is precisely the worst that can happen, both because we can risk losing population support on which this is basically based, but also because for us as politicians there is an obligation not to spend taxpayers' money inefficiently.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211135	To be liberal, I actually define as having clear objectives and that the way to that can be individual. When we have made political agreements in the past, this has usually been the case, among other things. It was a liberal requirement that it should be technology-neutral, but that a target should be set, and then one had to decide how to get there. But now the rapporteur says that in reality the most liberal is that you do not set targets and that you can act a little as you like. But then you don't create fair competition conditions. That's unfair to certain companies compared to other companies. So, is it the case that instead of wanting to reward some of those who are doing the right thing and are on the right course, you really think it's a little half-important? It is rather unclear to me, and if what remains is that the Liberal Alliance does not want clear targets, then I would almost say that the Liberal Alliance has become somewhat uliberal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211231	Unfortunately, I have only 30 seconds of speaking time to follow up the follow-up question from Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, so I think we will have to take it later. However, what I was trying to say, and which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr saw unfortunately did not fully understand, is that the Liberal Alliance will follow the objective of the Energy Agreement, which the SF is also part of the 'net zero-emission society' of 2050, which we already have, and in addition, we believe that Denmark must also meet the international commitments and objectives we set ourselves under the auspices of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211302	Then it's mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211309	Thank you. Thank you to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur for the honesty, although it is, of course, a little depressing. I attached myself a little bit to what the Liberal Alliance called political flexibility, I think. In fact, I believe that part of the problem and the background to the citizens' proposal is that it seems that the government takes on equally much flexibility in relation to the task to be solved. That is why I really would like to ask the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur: in my view, the important thing in this citizens' proposal is to ensure that we are on track, that we are on track, that we are on our way to meeting the climate targets to which we have committed ourselves, and that is why I am very interested that we have some political commitments, some constraints on what is going on. Can the Liberal Alliance not see the value of it and that, if there is too much of what the Liberal Alliance calls political flexibility, we risk ending up in a situation where 65 000 citizens can see that there is no connection between what the government is proposing and what the government is claiming they will?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211421	Thank you, and thank you for the question, which is, in fact, very relevant and some of it, which I also think we should perhaps spend some time on, among other things. in committee on this motion for a resolution. It is precisely how it is actually best for us to achieve the ultimate objective, which is • and we agree on • net zero emissions in 2050. Should we sit down year by year or every two years, or every three years, or every five years or every ten years, and set a very specific figure, which we should specifically reach in the very specific year on the very specific date, exactly on New Year's Eve, or whether we should actually give ourselves a little more flexibility, which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party was also very well aware of, so to give ourselves a little room for manoeuvre in relation to the technological development that we have seen in recent years on a large scale, and which we will certainly also see in the coming years, and not to get stuck in these very detailed short-term objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211532	Well, it's the whole thing about this... that the government unfortunately postpones the task and hopes, prays, intersects fingers to see something come up that can solve it at a later stage. Let us just say that we were at a New Year's change and were not entirely up to the goal, but could see that it was because the following year a offshore wind farm would be established, then I find it difficult to imagine a majority in the Danish Parliament who would say that it was very important that we then lived up to the target at that date when we could see that we were going to catch up next year. What is the problem here is that it will just be a bad excuse to claim that we are binding ourselves so much here. Then it just becomes a bad excuse for nothing to do and wait for a technology development that no one knows how fast goes. So can the Liberal Alliance not commit itself to the fact that we have objectives and also some milestones in the short term? If then there is a majority of the people who can see that we can differ a little bit this six months, because we are catching up to the next six months, then most of the people out there will probably understand it as well. On the other hand, you cannot understand that the government is not willing to set any targets, because then there is no transparency as to whether we are on the right track at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211644	In fact, I do not share the rapporteur's premise that we should not have objectives. Because we have objectives, we have a long-term objective. With the existing composition of Parliament and especially at this time, 3 months before a parliamentary election I almost dare not say from the platform what one could imagine. I am actually most interested that we sit down and talk about this quietly in a broad circle of conciliation. Whether the target is one or the other percentage, or what could be measured, is not quite as accurate as it seems to be for the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211739	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211741	I would like to hear: if now the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance wanted something that he did not have enough money for a big thing, something that you have to save up for the debate, it would be the rapporteur's attitude to sit down and figure out how much you had to put aside every month to buy the house you wanted? Or it must be an electric car you want. Or is the rapporteur thinking that it is much better just to see how things are going along the way and not to check out how much you have in the account because it gives a more agile way of saving?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211828	The rapporteur actually wants an electric car. Thank you for the question. In the situation that I had to save up for an electric car or for something else big I wanted, I would somehow effectively work my way towards being able to pay the big thing I wanted at the time I'm going to need it. How I would do that would be up to, you might say, a great degree of flexibility. Maybe I'd invest in some stock. It wasn't certain that I had enough money to invest in some stocks right from the start. Then maybe I'd be saving up for a short period of time. Then I might have some money that I could then start with equity investment, and then maybe through that equity investment I would get some more money, and at some point, via flexibility, through different options you could draw the parallel: via different technologies I would suddenly have achieved my goal and have enough money to buy the big thing I wanted, electric car, or whatever it was, or have reached a net zero-emission society.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226211951	Look, now I think we're approaching something here. For the point of binding sub-targets is, of course, that a plan needs to be drawn up. That's the point. The point is not that we should write down, that we should achieve exactly that and that, and that it should then be fulfilled on New Year's Eve. I even think that the rapporteur got so lost in believing that the resolution contained. But it's about making a plan. Because if you want to achieve something in 2050, as the rapporteur says you want to, then you cannot just move so flexibly and agile towards 2050 without having the shadow of a plan at all. You have to say once in a while: well, we're gonna make this in the first five years, then we're gonna look at it, and let's see if it's been going well. Then we can adjust the analogy: let us invest in some more shares, which is what is being done in the rapporteur's world. It's okay, there are other people who put money aside, but let's stay in that world. Then you may invest in some stocks after the 5 years, adjust and add a new plan. That's what it says here. So now, after we have translated it into stock analogys, it may be that the Liberal Alliance is also on the citizen's proposal. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212108	It is absolutely true that we in the Liberal Alliance want people to invest something more in shares, which is why we have among other things. We also helped to take initiatives in the intergovernmental cooperation in which we sit, which exactly promotes it. When it comes to plans, we have plenty of plans. After all, we have just adopted a number of amendments. also with Mrs Pernille Skipper's party, an energy agreement that lasts until 2030 and where we have plenty of plans. We have lots of agreements to look down into this deal, I think it's both in 2022, in 2025 and in 2027 and all sorts of other years. So those plans already exist, just as we already have a Climate Act, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that I think it is quite obvious that we should go up to regular evaluation to see if it reflects the political intentions at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212208	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. And welcome to Mr. Uffe Elbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212224	I hope you're still awake up there in the gallery. It's been a long night, and at least you're all gonna have a huge congratulations on being some of those who signed this citizens' proposal. And that is what we are discussing now. I mean, a huge congratulations. Perhaps this is the citizens' proposal which has already made the most political impression, because both the current government and all of us in the opposition parties are now backing both the intentions and the guiding principles behind a new climate law, as described in the citizens' proposal that we are discussing here tonight. It's just amazing. And just to make it crystal clear, I would say that the alternative supports every word, every comma and every sentence of the citizen's proposal. Let us take the six guiding principles: In the alternative, like all those who have signed the citizens' proposal, we believe that Denmark must, of course, make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Of course, we must set five-year milestones for at least 15 years, that climate considerations must be integrated into all policy areas, that we must strengthen the Climate Council and ensure its independence, and that Denmark must invest in the development of green solutions. Agreed, agreed and agreed again. Finally, I can say that the alternative is so much in favour of Denmark being a driving force in international climate policy. If it stands for us, climate together with the growing inequality must be the main priorities of Denmark's foreign, development and EU policy. In the alternative of our government programme, we have not just set aside 80 billion. kr. Over 4 years to green transition; we will change the whole logic of power here at Slotsholmen by moving what is called the prime role of the Ministry of Finance to a new green superministerium. So if it were up to the alternative, there would not be a single proposal in the future in this Chamber that has not been checked first for compliance with the Paris Agreement, the UN's 17 world objectives and the biodiversity objectives. In short, we are so ready for a serious green transition. So ready. But it is also a bottom-up task that we have to solve. And we have to solve it together. Otherwise, it will simply be a generational failure of unimaginable dimensions. And that, of course, is why the citizens' proposal is so important. You can see this citizen's proposal as a huge criticism of the lack of green ambitions of government and parliament. But you can also see the citizens' proposal as a huge gift from the green part of Danish civil society to us in here at Christiansborg. And it is not just civil society that is now acting; so is Danish business. It does Grundfos, it does Velux, it does Danfoss and ROCKWOOL. All of them have recently gone out and said to the government: do not lower climate ambitions. But now is also the time. The UN says it, the climate panel says it, everyone says it. We are literally facing the greatest challenge our civilisation has ever faced. It is life as we know it today that is at stake. The good news is, we have all the knowledge we need. We also have all the solutions we need. But we lack the courage to act • action, as Rosa Parks showed, when she in the 1960s on a bus refused to get up from a seat intended for white people. Or as Greta Thunberg, who at the age of 14 decided to strike a climate strike in front of the Swedish parliament. And the world hasn't been the same since. Both Rosa Parks and Greta Thunberg moved the political continental plates. This is the kind of moment we're facing right now, when there's one before and one after. Because words aren't enough anymore. Only action applies. So let us help each other to be brave and courageous, so that we can tell Greta Thunberg: There are actually adults present. There are adults who can both care and respect for the planet, which is our common home, yes, the only home we have as human beings. We must show concern for all the species we live with on Earth and respect for the miracle of life. The climate crisis is about morality, ethics and, above all, human and natural vision. And that is why this debate today is so much more than questions about CO2 It is about the survival of civilisation as we know it today. It's about the future of my children and grandchildren. It's about standing up for the survival of life. I know on which side I have chosen to stand. I've chosen to stand on the side of life. And I hope that all of us 179 members of the Folketing will.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212804	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. No one has allowed himself to be challenged, at least not for debate. Welcome to Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226212814	Thank you. I am tempted to thank you 65 000 times, but then I do not think that in my rapporteur's speech I can do so much other than say all those times thank you. But it is really a heartfelt thanks to every citizen of this country who has signed the proposal for a Climate Law. To hear this: political will exists only if there is a people who tell their politicians and their Parliament that they want action. Those of us who have been working for the climate for 15 and 20 years and have been full of political will do not come any further than what a democracy and a majority in Denmark can bring us to. So the fact that there is now popular support, the fact that it is spreading from neighbour to neighbour, is what is going to move things seriously and set the pace we need in Denmark. And, dear friends, even if things go so wrong that this proposal is not adopted by a majority in Parliament and you can have your doubts after today's debate about where it really ends up, you have already moved something. You've already moved the government. We have been told this by the Minister today; we have moved forward. It is not two months since we were in consultation with the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate, who would not recognise the existing Climate Act. Now the Minister would like to recognise the Climate Act, and I would like to sign for that. It's always good to move when you move in the right direction. All citizens, 65,000 people, have also moved the government in proportion to the fact that they want a new climate law at all. It is therefore a huge step forward, and whether the proposal as it stands is adopted or not, it is a step forward that you must take home and think that you have helped to create it. So there is confusion at a higher level after today's debate. I simply find it incredibly difficult to find out where the government stands. I know where the Liberal Alliance stands; they will not support the proposal as it stands right now. The Left will not say that they do not support it. This would be hoped to mean that they would actually like to vote in favour of the proposal now before us. But it is unclear, and it has become increasingly unclear in the course of today's debate, where the Left stands and where the government stands. We look forward to hearing where the Conservatives stand, because then we may have a better idea of where the government ends when they have finished discussing with themselves. So citizens, thank you for putting this on, for if nothing else you have exhibited that there is a government divided with itself in this area. There are six principles to this citizen's proposal. That is a wise suggestion. It's not rabid, it's not extreme, it's smart. It has been put in order in a way that all parties in here should be able to support the six principles. Denmark must do its part in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Yeah, we signed that. We have committed ourselves to this as a country. Is there anyone in here who can't support it? That we also get the proposal that it is an independent Climate Council that says how we figure out what is really Denmark's goal, I think is a good idea. I think it is a good commitment to put around the work of the Folketing that we have an independent, scientifically based Climate Council that tells us what our task is. No. 2 is that there will be five-year sub-targets for the next 15 years. They must also be forward-looking. We all know it's easy enough to promise something in 2050. But it's hard to make things happen now. So if you think that we're probably gonna make it in a phase-in that looks like a curve like that, then we're not gonna make it. It is then that climate considerations must be integrated into other policies. This means that it must be incorporated into agricultural policy, it must be incorporated into energy policy, it must be incorporated into transport policy, it must, in fact, also be incorporated into education policy. It makes incredibly good sense to think about climate all around a principle that a Parliament that takes the climate seriously should also be able to support. Then there is the need for the Climate Council to be strengthened and made independent. I think that is what has happened in recent months' debate, controversy and so on. I think so. Let us then try to say that we would like to have this critical body outside the Folketing, outside the government, who can say: this is what it looks like, friends, you don't have to fight for facts, because this is what it looks like, compared to where you're going now. Most recently we were told from the government's own figures that when you calculated the figures for what you say you want to do, the pace is reduced to a quarter of what it has been in the past. It's not nice to know as a government, but it could be what woke you up to start doing even more. Denmark will then have to invest in the development of green solutions. After all, we are the world leader in renewable energy, we are the world leader in marine energy. We can be very proud that it is we who have brought the price of sea wind so far down that we are the world leader. We can do the same in agriculture, we can do it in transport. Let's be the ones who show the world that this is possible. Last but not least, Denmark must be a driving force in international politics. If there was anything I dreamed of, it was that Denmark came on the field again as a green country leading the world. So the Radical Left can support every single point of this citizens' proposal, and we are deeply grateful that there is a great deal of popular support for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226213344	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no brief comments, which is why I would like to invite Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr from the Socialist People's Party to the platform. And we have an extra set of glasses on the platform, I can see if anyone is missing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226213357	That's nice, because I can get two on. Thank you for a fantastic proposal, because we are the last generation to act, and we must take that responsibility seriously. As Greta Thunberg says it and now I quote from the Financial Times: If you have a child that is standing in the middle of the road, and cars are coming at full speed, you don't look away because it is too hard to see, you run out and get that child away from there. It is just to stress the seriousness of the matter here. We know the problem and we should act. We should not just see it and worry about it, or at least hope that it goes away by itself. I think that a 16-year-old student who continues to demonstrate every Friday in front of the Swedish Parliament, somehow puts us all in checkmates. She says it, as no one else dares to say, "Get a grip on yourself now!" And she's not really alone. That is really what the 65 000 citizens have chosen to say to the Folketing, or the Green Student Movement that stands before the Folketing every Thursday with a lot of citizens, or the 11 green organisations that are shouting out: we need a climate law now, not tomorrow, not in 1⁄2 years, not in 3 years' time. We need a new climate law now so that we are ready for the challenges we face. The first law on climate was a clue. That's where we decided to deliver 40%. in 2020. We're on our way to that. Now it is that we must take the next step. And this Climate Act 2.0, as the Prime Minister called it earlier today, is, in fact, a climate law based on the present one. So, of course, the SF must say a very clear 'yes' to the citizens' proposal. These are six excellent principles, namely that we must live up to the Paris Agreement. That is what everyone says they want to do, but if you go deeper, you can see what the Paris Agreement says, and that is that we actually have to meet the 1.5-degree objective. Is the government doing this with current policy? No, we will not actually even achieve zero emissions by 2050. With the current emissions it will be 95 years and 7 months before we are in the zero emission target. So just living up to the Paris Agreement, which is paragraph 1 of the citizens' proposal, will have drastic consequences in Denmark. So we're going to have to have a five-year term. It is already there in the current climate legislation, and it is obvious if we are to measure whether we are heading in the right direction. That is the case with everything, and I think that Mrs Pernille Skipper showed it excellently with her example of economics. If we want to save up for something, then we are taking it step by step. We should also do this in the area of climate change, because the climate area is just as important as the economy of this country. After all, the integration of climate considerations into other politicians is obvious to everyone who cares about the climate, but obviously not to this government, because it would never have been possible to conclude the agricultural agreement. And we have repeatedly seen agreements being made that undermine the climate objectives that we must meet. The rest of the proposals are also excellent, i.e. the other three points. I have to say that I am left with the fact that in reality Denmark just has to be back in the green driver's shirt again. That would be lovely. After all, we are in fact a country the size of Hamburg, 5.5 million people, but for a long time we have had a far greater importance in the world because of our great ambitions, our great courage and our political will to make far-reaching decisions. We are not doing that now, and that is why we really need to make a game changer that needs to happen something new, and that is what the citizens' proposal is doing. The consequences are incalculable if we do nothing about it. We know that. Globally there will be droughts; floods; coral reefs that die; glaciers that melt away just to mention some of it. But we don't have to move into the world because we could see it in Denmark as late as last summer. When agriculture loses 7 billion. kr. in income due to a drought that is indirectly related to the climate crisis, it has both consequences for crops, but it also has consequences for the economy. So this is both economic and climate-wise sensible to act on. It is about delivering an ambitious plan for renewable energy. We are on our way, but we need to speed up, not least because we have data centres in Denmark that will end up taking full RES if we do not get started with further investments. As far as agriculture is concerned, we have to recognise that not enough is happening, and agriculture also has to deliver its share. They're up to 30%. of Denmark's CO 2 And in transport, things are going in the wrong direction. My daughter is 11 years old today. She's gonna be 12 here in April. So in 20 years, I hope she knocks on my door and says, "Good that you acted in time." But frankly, my concern is that she knocks and says, "Why didn't you act before?" Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226213922	Thank you very much, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226213931	Thank you. On October 8, 2018, I asked my little sister to buy an edition of all the newspapers, Berlingske, Politiken, all of them, for that day my daughter Esther Marie was born. And I'd like the newspaper cover to show her when she grew up, what kind of world she was born into, this special day, her birthday. On the front page of Information was referred to the new report from the UN Climate Panel. The conclusion, which was printed on the front page, was: The next few years are probably the most important in human history. Those are big words. I've heard before that when you become a parent, all the worries start, and I was prepared for that too. And I've been worried about climate change for a long time. But this combination of a newspaper cover, which said that the next few years became the most crucial in human history, combined with a newborn in the arms, who so much needed some adults who took responsibility, hit me anyway hard. For me, it became the culmination of what we Conservatives call the generation contract. Generations are bound together by flesh and blood, but above all by responsibilities and obligations. I think that's why this citizen's proposal has received 65,000 signatures so quickly. It is Danes who care about the future and who care about the next generation. At one time climate change as such seemed a little indefinable that lay on the horizon and that one could keep at such a very pleasant distance, but it has suddenly become close and much more concrete when we experience how the winter storms lead to floods and people standing with the rubber boots in their living room; when we get through summers with heat waves and warmer chords. We all felt that, especially those of us who were highly pregnant at the time. The report mentioned on the front page of the newspaper concluded that a rapid and far-reaching transition in agriculture, energy, industry, buildings, transport, cities, etc. is required if the global temperature increase is to be reduced to a maximum. One and a half degrees. Fortunately, the report also concludes that this is possible, but it requires an unprecedented level of ambition from the world's decision-makers. Do we have that, that is, an unprecedented level of ambition from the world's decision-makers? I think we do. The world's leaders are more ambitious than they have been so far, but is that enough? No, that's not enough. It shows all the analyses we get. That is why we, the Conservatives, also want a new climate law in Denmark. We are the only bourgeois party behind the existing law adopted in 2014. Here we set up the Climate Council, set ourselves national climate targets, introduced climate statements in the Folketing and much more good. But was that enough? No, it wasn't. That is why we need a new climate law that will be much more concrete, much more binding and much more ambitious. We Conservatives will soon also be presenting more thoughts on how we see such a climate law. But like the rest of the government, we are positive about the many good elements that lie in this citizens' proposal. We need to have a closer discussion of this citizens' proposal in the committee procedure that is due to take place now and to be sure that we are talking about the same thing in relation to the six pointers, that is, what lies in them. A lot has happened since 2014 and fortunately for it. At that time, for some bourgeois parties, it was such an independent statement, that is, the fact of having no climate rapporteur, and when we Conservatives joined the Climate Act in 2014, there were many who thought that we were such a little semi-communist when we could go into this with national climate targets. A lot of people laughed at us back then. So I just want to say that whether this citizens' proposal ends up being adopted or not, it has moved something in relation to the recognition of the climate law that we have from 2014 and that is a good step. I look forward to working further and more specifically on this citizens' proposal. Once again, thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for the work that has been done. I hope that when my daughter I could also hear that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr's daughter is looking at us in many years' time, we will ask if we did enough, so that with a clear conscience we can say that yes, we did. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214440	You're welcome. There are a number of brief remarks. It's first, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214445	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard and the Conservatives for helping to create a climate law in 2014. After all, it gives a little more credibility when we are discussing Climate Law 2.0, that we were actually included in the first agreement. I also remember the current Prime Minister saying about the Conservatives that he did not understand what they were doing in the agreement on climate change. He also said that what the Conservatives were into was unrealistic, too ambitious and naive. Fortunately, there are many of us who are pleased that the Conservatives stood firm, and it is to be hoped that it is an expression of greater recognition that the government is now also moving. I would like to hear whether the rapporteur would like to say a little more about the issue of national climate targets, that is, the value of having national climate targets, which has been supported so far, and indeed the value of • partial targets and transparency, so that we know whether we are actually on the right track. After all, we do not believe that the current direction of the government is enough, and we believe that there is a need for greater transparency and better status in the process as to whether we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214558	As I hope to see from my speech, we have not regretted in the Conservative People's Party that we supported the first Climate Act. There are some very central elements in it that are also addressed in this citizens' proposal. There is recognition of national objectives that we need not only to have European objectives that we can stop but also to have national objectives. In the 2014 law, it was 40 per cent. in 2020. We still believe that in the Conservative People's Party. We need national climate targets that are binding on us. We must dare to take the lead in that way. And there was also in the Climate Act that we have already supported once, visions of this partial goal. We backed that up in 2014, and we're still doing it away.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214644	One can hope that if anyone has become wiser since 2014, it is the current Prime Minister who at that time thought it was naive to do these things. Let us turn the question upside down. I'm lucky enough to have a little daughter, and she deserves us to take responsibility for this, too. The rapporteur, I sense, wants to support this, so can the rapporteur not just say what exactly we are going to mess with? What needs to be changed a little in order for the Conservatives to be able to support this climate change law and the citizens' proposal? Because we want to ensure that this happens with broad support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214724	One of the points in the motion for a resolution is this with the 5 billion. kr. in climate assistance. Conservatives have not presented any economic plan containing the full 5 billion. I therefore think it would be irresponsible simply to vote for it now and here without having had a discussion on how we are going to settle these 5 billion. DKK, over which time horizon, etc. There are some thoughts about an independent Climate Council in the citizens' proposal, which I also find exciting, but it is not specified how it should be done. That is something on which we need to have a discussion. Do we understand the same thing about an independent Climate Council that sits in this room, so we are sure, if a button is to be pressed, that it is from the same prerequisites that we press the button?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214804	Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214807	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is nice to have Mrs Mette Abildgaard back, because I think it raises the level of ambition all the way around in the blue block. I'm trying in vain to find out where the government is. I have found out that the Liberal Alliance will not vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. Left you have no idea where you have to use a good old Left slogan. At any rate, we can only find out that they have not said that they do not support it. So now I'm trying to figure out where Conservatives stand. I understand that if you could say that we have to discuss how we reach the 5 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226214855	In fact, I believe that both the Conservative People's Party and the government as a whole are approximately the same place as Mr. Jens Joel expressed the Social Democracy did, compared to that there are many positive elements in this. But there are also some things that we need to discuss in more detail and ask some more questions. Now, as an example, I mentioned what this thing about a more independent climate council means. Does that mean we're gonna point it out in a different way? Does this mean that they have other competences? Does this mean that they choose their President in a different way? What do we have in mind? There you can go through all six pointers, and there's quite a lot of substance in this. There is quite a lot that we need to discuss, so we are talking from a common context. How is it more concrete that we think about integrating it into other policy areas? I look forward very much to this being discussed much more and brushed out much more in the talks we need to have. Whether this is going to be voted on tomorrow or not, we must also be completely honest and realistic and say that we cannot now commit a government to making a climate law before an election. I mean, it would be a mess of another world. So for me, it's about us committing each other on which way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215007	I think that right now would be a perfect time to oblige the current government to make a climate bill. Whether it be this majority or another that does it, I can hardly see any better time, both for the sake of the climate, it is urgent, and if you stand here and promise something in connection with an election, you are also bound by it after an election. After all, we have seen people running from different things in the past, and when it comes up after an election, it is not quite the right time right now to tie up a majority on it. That is my one question. My second question is whether I have understood the rapporteur correctly: LA says no, the Left says they do not know and that they have not said they do not, and Conservatives may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215048	The government is committed to making a new climate law. We have committed ourselves to creating a new climate law. It's not up for discussion. We have also committed each other to including the six points in the citizens' proposal in one variant or another and to discussing exactly how. All three parties of government have the same position when we come to discuss this in committee and will be sure that we are talking about the same thing when we talk about an independent climate council, for example. We need to get this straight before we can take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215122	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215124	What I'm curious about is what the Conservatives here say. And you can also read that the rapporteur on Twitter makes a number of statements which include: states that the Conservatives helped to make the final climate law and that they now support a new and far more binding climate law, because it is due to future generations. That is what Enhedslisten agrees with. But when you say binding Climate Law, is the starting point the citizens' proposal we are discussing today, or is it the sketch of the Minister for Climate and Energy that there will be some public hearing in the autumn, and then you come up with something where you will then make a Climate Act 2.0? I think that there is a big difference in that, including in terms of speed. For we have heard from several rapporteurs that speed means something. So I would like to know what the starting point is. Is the starting point for arriving at something binding this citizens' proposal today, or are these the sketches that the climate minister has aired today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215233	Now you have to be careful not to speak on behalf of others, but I have the impression that the climate minister will feel misunderstood if it is the opinion that he is not willing to make a new climate law based on the proposal that exists today. When the Minister of Climate has just repeatedly stressed that there are none of the six pointers he excludes, and that he lets all six pointers be included as a powerful source of inspiration, then the Minister of Climate Change must correct me, but he nods I take it as a good sign. We are obliged to do so. Then we are asked about how we make it more binding, and I think that is a key element. As far as I remember, reduction targets were written into the comments to the law, which made them relatively easy to bypass. There they have to enter directly into a legislative text, seen with my eyes at least, forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215325	Well, I can be in doubt if the climate minister nodded because it's just getting a little late. Because I think there is a big difference between the citizen's proposal and what the Minister for Climate and Energy outlined earlier, and very big difference. It was something very airy, and we could not be told whether, in this way, we were going to vote in favour of this proposal. Then I was told that you can't expect that. So I think that the starting point for the three governing parties is extremely different in terms of whether or not we are going to go after it could be something binding which can in fact be quickly put on an agenda. I can't even understand the statement that we're gonna have to wait because there's gonna be a choice soon. There are plenty of instruments that we could decide tomorrow, which had an effect on agriculture. Does the rapporteur not see that we need to act quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215413	We should not wait because there is a choice. We have to wait because we have to be sure that we have a good climate law, a binding climate law, a concrete climate law, an ambitious climate law. That is why we must ensure that when we take the next step after 2014, we do it properly and we do it for the future. I am not going to try to translate between the Minister and the questioner in such a way, but may I not just say that there is something too bad in this climate debate. We have a pretty historic day today. All bourgeois parties recognise the value of the climate law we made in 2014. This is a huge step in Danish climate policy. Can we just take a moment and look at each other and enjoy it? For this is a big step for the climate debate in Denmark. Then I agree that we should demand each other, that we should be concrete and what do we want, and when and how much and how little? But damn it, man, we've moved out of here. I'm sorry, I'm pulling those words back. But we certainly don't know if you can say "move us," and that's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215511	It's noted. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215518	I think it is more a comment than it is a question, but I think we should, in fact, let the debate end with what Mrs Mette Abildgaard has just said, that is that we have had a very, very important debate. There are indeed differences between the blocs and the individual parties, but it is historic that there is agreement across parties that you want a new climate law, and that is not our merit in here. Each of us, of course, has tried to achieve that ambition, but that is because the citizens outside this Chamber have pushed this discussion through, and I think that is just so fantastic. Then you can hope that Mrs Mette Abildgaard could become part of the UN's green helmets or something like that and find a bridge between these different parties. There's just a big cadeau from here, and I only have that comment. I do not have a follow-up comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215627	Thank you. I also find it quite indescribably uplifting with the popular debate, the popular commitment that has come into the whole climate agenda. I think it is liberating and it is moving much more on this agenda. We did not discuss much climate in the last elections, and we will do so in the next elections. I have no doubt about that at all. There's been so much happening. I think we owe each other, even if there is an election campaign in a moment, to keep the ball focused on reaching as far as possible with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215704	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215707	I'm thinking that sir... Jens Joels Ulrikke and the rapporteur's Ester Marie and my own Laura in the future could have a smile on if only Mrs Mette Abildgaard was allowed to govern the government's climate policy. In fact, I would be quite comfortable with that, and in this there is recognition of the impetus with which the Conservatives have pushed the government in the right direction. I have no doubt about that at all, not at all. Having said that, we are still waiting for what the government is going to do in this debate, and I really think it is crucial to have the six elements carved out. If Mrs Mette Abildgaard can answer on behalf of the government, is that the outstanding issue we have? Is it the six points that need to be clarified? Is it the outstanding? Or is there something unsaid that we also have to have on the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215818	I think that if there is something unsaid that we also have to get on the table, then I will be very unpopular if I stand here and say so. But I don't have the impression there is. On the contrary, I have a very heartfelt desire to have a good climate law put in place and to make it more binding, more ambitious, more concrete. That is at least the starting point we have in the Conservative People's Party in relation to the discussions we need to move forward. I do not remember it one hundred per cent precisely, but I believe that, when we had discussions on the citizens' proposal on organ donation, there was also subsequently a debate in committee on options and models, etc. Sometimes these citizens' proposals can bear the fact that we are talking about them a little further, and everything is not going to fall into the Chamber for a single day.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215901	For the SF it should not stand and fall with a debate in the Parliamentary Chamber either. We think it is so crucial and a decisive step that has taken place today that the government recognises the Climate Act adopted in 2014. I remember the debate, and I remember how ridiculed the Conservative People's Party was at that time by the other blue parties, and it has to be said that today the Conservative People's Party really receives recognition of the other blue parties. I also hope that some of the elements contained in the Climate Act will begin to be met, among other things. I hope that it will also be the ambition of the Conservative People's Party to ensure that that law is delivered from 2014 until we have a new Climate Law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215944	It is clear that what we have had so far must be delivered until we get something new, and I have heard the Minister say that today there will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215950	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226215953	I would also like to start by saying that it is absolutely right, as Mrs Abildgaard says, that something has been moved. Well, five years after the Climate Act, the other bourgeois parties are there, and of course it's something to celebrate, but obviously the trees aren't growing into the sky either today, are they? I would just like Mrs Mette Abildgaard to confirm that if a resolution is adopted, it is not the same as a legislative proposal. Motions for resolutions must be translated into legislative proposals. They are not legally binding, they must be considered and they must be defined and they must be transformed into law. So, regardless of when a motion for a resolution is adopted, we must go through a process in which what is in the motion for a resolution must be defined, drilled and transformed into a law. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220058	It is quite true that there is a difference between a resolution and a legislative proposal. I also think that we owe it out of respect for the 65,000 Danes who have signed this citizens' proposal to ensure that the day we vote on it, Mrs Pernille Skipper and Mr. Mikkel Dencker, for example, the same thing when we vote on an independent Climate Council, that there are not widely differing views about what it means in practice. Now Mrs Pernille Skipper says that the trees are not growing into heaven today. No, they do not, but sometimes I have to admit that when I hear Mrs Pernille Skipper speak, I wonder whether the trees are growing at all. Because there will be a very gloomy atmosphere over everything that is being said. I agree that there is a desire for a more ambitious agenda and I agree that there is a desire to be more concrete in relation to this. I am just trying to appeal to us to also, after all, welcome the progress that is being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220148	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220150	I am simply sorry if I am too gloomy for Mrs Abildgaard's taste. I think there is plenty of reason to hope for the green agenda, but I also have to admit that I find that hope seldom in here in this Parliament hall with this political majority and with a bunch of bourgeois parties who have been five years to acknowledge at all that it was a good idea to have climate legislation and now say that they want it. But they don't really know what it's supposed to contain, and I could go on. So I think there are plenty of reasons for hope, but hope does not seem to me to have spent five years convincing the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate that a climate law is a good idea when he does not even want to tell us what should be in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220245	But I also think Mrs Pernille Skipper has a very short memory. For there will also be plenty of good results for the country, which is moving in the right direction. I understand that Mrs Pernille Skipper wants everything in tenfold. Enhedslisten does that with most of it in this house, but it doesn't change that we've landed an energy reconciliation. All the parties in the Folketing are involved, we are planning three large offshore wind farms, we have set a target of 55%. of our energy supply must be green by 2030. There are plenty of things that are moving in the right direction, and fortunately for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220319	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. If no objection is expressed, it is adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220339	The next item is a debate on questions to the Council (Doc. F 36, which means that we need to reorganise, so that the rapporteurs and the minister are in the first place, so we take just a few minutes to get it in place. And then we're gonna make a change here, too. Some have asked why we have not combined these two debates in one debate, but for good reason we cannot allow ourselves to do so when it is a citizen's proposal. It must be dealt with separately. But all the rapporteurs and proposers are free to say that they feel covered. It's up to you. But we shall now proceed to the question debate, which is a separate point.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220441	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 28 February 2019. We are starting the debate with a explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220510	Thank you. We have just had a long debate on the citizens' proposal, but when we asked for a question debate on this citizen's proposal, it was in all its simplicity to be sure that we could have a debate on the proposal quickly enough to allow us to actually get involved, it was actually possible to discuss the principles contained in the citizens' proposal, even if we were to risk a rapid parliamentary election. There is no doubt that it is moving up on the agenda when it is a question debate and that is why we have called it. I would say, then, that the debate we have just had has taught us that it will also be very relevant to get the Minister's answer now on what is really going to be done with Climate Act 2.0. Because while it is really gratifying that the climate minister says he is interested in it, it is still very unclear for most people in the Chamber what the government really thinks and whether it is going to support those principles. And that is why we are having a question debate now, at least on the part of the opposition, when we intend to make it crystal clear that what we have to vote on is that what we have to decide is the citizens' proposal and its principles in their entirety as they stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220633	Then it is for answering the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226220650	Thank you for that, President. We've come out tonight, and it's getting late. The headline here is: Will the Minister take the initiative to strengthen the Danish Climate Act? And to that I can say: Yes. During the evening there has been a discussion, and it can be said that our two debates are to some extent connected. And I would also like to make it very clear here on the platform and send the very, very clear and clear signal that the six principles listed in the citizens' proposal are good principles. These are also principles which I, as a minister and as a government, can support. Denmark must make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It has the full support of the government. That is also why we are proposing that we write the target of climate neutrality by 2050 so that it will be by 2050 at the latest and that it will be one of the pillars of the climate bill that we intend to make. Five-year sub-targets shall be set at least 15 years. I think that's worth working on. How do we achieve the best goals? This is not something we wish to reject. It may well be that this is a sensible way of working. Climate considerations must be integrated into other policies. Well, I think that is also right, very sensible, and I even think that you can see if you do not, when you deal with other legislative proposals, just as we are today looking at what the environmental consequences are also to look at what the climate consequences are. The Climate Council must be strengthened and guaranteed independence. Well, if there is something we can look at and do in a different way there, then let us have a discussion about it. I am very, very concerned that the Climate Council is strong, and also that it is independent in its daily work and in its work at all. Denmark must invest in the development of green solutions. Well, that headline I and the government can also support one hundred percent. Denmark must be a driving force in international climate policy. That is how I see it today, and fortunately with a very, very broad majority in the back, in relation to the fact that we are doing that task. When you look at it a little, the Left has, to some extent or other, been involved as one of the governing parties. The Conservative People's Party and Liberal Alliance have also recently done so. The table ends have been in place since 2001, with the exception of a period of 31⁄2 years. And this is a period in which Denmark has placed itself in a strong international climate position. It is not my party's fault, it is not one party's fault; it is the result of a broad cooperation in the Folketing. I also hope that, when we are going to work on establishing a Danish climate law, we will also be able to base it on a broad majority here in the Danish Parliament. We have a good tradition of this when we talk about energy policy, and I actually hope that we can have that when we have the Climate Act, the new Climate Act 2.0, or what we prefer to call it, and the forward-looking climate policy and the basis for it, that we can also bring together a broad majority in the Folketing there too. That is what the government will be calling for, and so will we in the negotiations that are to take place. Therefore, when you ask today whether the government can vote in favour of the citizens' proposal, then I can say that there is a great deal we can vote in favour of. And the six main principles set out by the Conservative rapporteur, Mette Abildgaard, are indeed very good pillars to continue to work on. Then it is important to say that I have seen many motions for resolutions here in the Danish Parliament, where it has been said at first reading that there is in fact something that one would like to work on, but that one now needs to dig a spade deeper into the committee procedure. That is, in fact, the way we work in the Folketing, and that is also why I am today sending a clear and clear signal to the Folketing that the government thinks that the citizens' proposal is a really, really good basis and that there really is something to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221121	Thank you to the Minister, and now, according to the rules, a brief comment can be made by the rapporteurs who so wish. First, it's sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221129	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I hardly think we can do any more of that bypass talk about the fact that it is a good basis that you might want to back up and something like that. Then the Minister cannot say what it is that needs to be moved, what it is that needs to be changed. So just point to what needs to be changed in the citizens' proposal, so that you can vote yes, as a large, large group of citizens want, and as many in this Chamber want?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221201-2	I do not think I have explained very clearly where the government stands. We're positive. There's a lot of this we can vote for. It is quite natural that, at a first reading of a motion for a resolution, the direction should be taken, that the proposal should be supported and that we should like to continue working on this, and now we should like to see things fleshed out in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221226	Then it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221228	So we can understand that it is not the proposal that needs to be changed by the government. It is quite clear that the Liberal Alliance does not want to be involved. Is that how it is? Because there is nothing in the proposal that cannot be voted for, so why can we not just be told today that the government is voting for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221244	We have a first reading today, there is no vote today. There is no such thing at the first reading of motions for resolutions. That is why we have a process in which we have committee meetings and discuss things and get things right and hopefully find a broad consensus, so that when we come to the second reading, a large majority of the whole parliament can hopefully vote in favour of the bill that comes out of it. That's how I work. That is how we have worked when we made an energy agreement, a telecommunications agreement and so on, and I actually hope that this will be the case here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221312	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221316	It is of course interesting that there are some things that are moving, because when we came to the conclusion that there were 50,000 people who had signed, some newspapers asked rapporteurs in the government and the Danish People's Party whether they supported the citizens' proposal that lay and all four parties said clearly no. That was the message that came out just when there were 50,000 people who had signed it. So somewhere one can be pleased that, indeed, there were articles that highlighted it. So it is a little gratifying that something is moving, and it sounds like you can just make some minor clarifications about this citizens' proposal, and so we have seen an energy, supply and climate minister who can vote for what we might come up with through a committee procedure. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Is this how it should be understood that we can actually take a vote here before the summer recess on this citizens' proposal and decide whether there is a majority in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221420	This may well be the case, also in relation to the comments that were made. For my part, I can say that the comment I made as a minister was that the citizens' proposal had kicked in an open door. That was also the title, I think, at least that was the position of the ritzautelegram that came out afterwards. I also saw, when I looked down on the points there were, these six points that I read out just now, that these are points that I think we should actually be able to reconcile the Folketing and find a solution to, and if there are some small corners and things we need to correct, we should also find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221454	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221458	Thank you. Now it's not just these 65,000 citizens who are behind this. In fact, it is some of the sharpest minds we have in the climate area that have screwed this up and which represent in the order of 250 000 citizens, because it is Danish climate and environmental organisations that have come together to try to write it here. What is described is principles, in fact it is on the two sides as an introduction to it, that here are the principles of the six elements. Would it not be good to say that these principles are acceptable to us and therefore to vote in favour of the proposal? And then you can put it into practice because it has to be done in all cases. It needs to be translated into more detail, no matter how you look at it. Couldn't that be an approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221551	Thank you. There are many wise people and great respect for it. If the principles are the six headlines here, I think we could agree. It is clear that when you have a headline, there is often also a content under the heading, and that is why I call for us to find out in committee what is under those headings. For the main content of the six principles, I can easily support them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221619	Then we say thank you to the Minister in this round. We shall now proceed to the debate and therefore to the general rules for short remarks. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226221640	Thank you. After all, there has been a long and, I think, good debate about the citizens' proposal and about the fact that we need a strengthened climate law. When you listen to the minister, if I'm going to start with the positive thing, you can see that the government is now willing to make a Climate Act 2.0. It must be said to be a big step forward. It must also be noted that the Minister thus says that it was wrong when the President of the Left, the current Prime Minister, said in 2014 to the Conservative colleagues that it was both unrealistic, too ambitious and naive when the Conservatives made a climate bill together with our government parties. The truth is that it is because the Left has taken a very long time to discover the seriousness of this situation, but now you shouldn't mourn a reverse sinner or whatever you say you say but rejoice over a reverse sinner. And I think that when the citizens who have signed this proposal sit and look at the debate, they would, of course, much rather have us agree to make an ambitious climate bill than to discuss and argue in here. That is why I think this debate on the proposal could end very well if the government and the Minister were to say quite openly: yes, we do think that national climate targets are needed; indeed, we do think that transparency is needed; indeed, we do think that there is a need for much better control, that we are not just saying that we want to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, but actually also how we get there so that we can regularly, for example every year, have independent experts in the Climate Council look for whether we are actually on track and then correct if we are not on track. What we have seen, unfortunately, is that when the Climate Council said that we are going the wrong way, that it is going too slowly, that the government is reducing the pace of the transition to a quarter, the Minister said it is gibberish. I don't think we need that forward-looking if this is to move. That is why I hope that the Minister's new clear-sightedness will also lead us not only to stand and say that we are on the basis of this, but that we will actually commit ourselves to some national objectives, to some CO2 that would be a very, very good outcome to this discussion. Then, in fact, while we have been discussing, there are even more citizens who have signed. Now, according to the latest I saw, 66.017 citizens have signed. It's a good thing if there's somebody out there who's gonna come along, who's gonna give the last flick to the government. However, on behalf of the Social Democrats, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, I would like to read out a proposal for adoption. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Danish Parliament recognizes that more than 66.017 Danes have signed the citizens' bill "Danish Climate Act now" and has thus sent a strong signal that Denmark needs a strengthened climate law. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to call for negotiations on a strengthened Danish Climate Act with binding reduction targets. The Danish Parliament urges the government to ensure that Denmark meets its international commitments in the climate field, including climate assistance, that Denmark once again becomes a driving force in the development of a European and international climate policy to keep the temperature increases down to 1.5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.5 degrees Fahrenheit) and that the national follow-up to our climate targets is based on climate pollution budgets. The Climate Act must be based on the principles of the citizens' proposal: Denmark must make its contribution to achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which must be set five-year milestones at least 15 years ahead, climate considerations must be integrated into other policies, the Climate Council must be strengthened and guaranteed independence, Denmark must invest in the development of green solutions, and Denmark must be a driving force in international climate policy. • V 80).
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222118	This proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. Since there are no brief comments, we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222134	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the debate here. It is, of course, a natural continuation of the debate we had earlier this evening on the citizens' proposal on the same subject, and therefore it may not be entirely possible to avoid a certain overlap in the messages. In the Danish People's Party, as I said during the debate on the citizens' proposal, we also think that the climate is important. In Denmark, we have to do what we can to end our climate impact, and this is an effort that we in the Danish People's Party, as I also said earlier in the evening, believe should go on two legs. One is that we must do what we can in Denmark to reduce and eventually completely eliminate our emissions of climate gases. The second leg is that we have to look at what Denmark can contribute to the rest of the world, and we believe that this can happen by showing that we here in Denmark can have a modern society with a high standard of living without affecting the climate. So in other words, our contribution to international climate action is that we should take the lead in setting a good example for other countries to follow. In the Danish People's Party we will continue the implementation of renewable energy, as has happened over recent decades. Nowadays, we are in the happy situation that renewable energy such as wind turbines and solar cells has become so cheap in operation that soon there is no longer any reason to support them financially. So we look forward to the green transition on electricity supply being made on market terms in a few years' time. For the transport sector, as I said earlier today, there is still some way to go before fossil fuels can be completely replaced. Although we see in these years that hybrid and electric cars fall in price and range increases, it is still the case that it will take a few more years before the shift takes place by itself. In the Danish People's Party, however, we would like to help the development along the way, and that is why it is our wish that we change the registration fee so that the environmental and climate characteristics of cars become more decisive than now for the size of the registration fee. The impact of cars on the environment and climate during the production phase has also been discussed in some detail lately, and this is something we think should also count on in the calculation of the registration fee. Then we need to invest more in Denmark on the development of green energy technology, and here I am thinking in particular of how we can proceed with the use of renewable energy, because today we still lack storage technology so that we can store our temporal overproduction of renewable energy so that we can save it for periods when wind turbines and solar cells do not produce enough to cover immediate consumption. We also believe that there is a potential for researching CO2 as I said just now, we welcome the debate on our climate legislation and we are quite clear about taking this discussion and entering into it. We also recognise that the current Climate Act, which was adopted in 2014, is not necessarily perfect and that it can easily withstand a review. Today, the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate has told us that the government in the next Assembly will put forward a new climate bill here in the Danish Parliament, and before that the government will conduct a public hearing in which all Danes can speak out and give their opinions in the climate debate. These are initiatives which we in the Danish People's Party welcome, because in this way we will have the best possible implementation of the Climate Act and with as broad popular participation as possible, and that is something we support. So on this basis, on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Danish People's Party, I am going to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the climate challenge requires global action now if serious climate change is to be avoided. It is crucial that Denmark continues to be a driving force in the development of a European and international climate policy that supports the objectives of the Paris Agreement and that Denmark fulfils its international obligations and makes its contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government will propose a new Climate Law that supports Denmark's compliance with the Paris Agreement and establishes an overall strategic framework for Denmark's climate policy with a view to achieving Denmark's climate neutrality goals by 2050 at the latest. The Danish Parliament also notes that the government will take the initiative for a public hearing where all Danes can provide input to climate policy in Denmark and to the new Climate Act. • V 81).
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222625	This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. In the absence of any brief comments, we thank the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222640	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by saying that I am also speaking on behalf of the Liberal Alliance. In the question text, the question is asked: Will the Minister take the initiative to strengthen the Danish Climate Act? There is the answer, as the Minister also made clear: yes. It can be said that the Minister has announced that a proposal will be made for a new Climate Act. In addition, I would like to refer to my speech on the same subject in connection with the proposal we have just discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222717	We thank the rapporteur and, as there are no brief comments, we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226222733	It seems to me that we have been a long way off, and at one point in this debate we had the feeling that we had now reached the point where we had made a significant step forward. If we then hear the proposal for adoption which has just been read out by the bourgeois side, it will be made clear that the Danish Parliament notes that the government will propose a new climate bill. In other words, all this back and forth about whether the various parties support the citizens' proposal has so little been moved back to zero, because now four parties have found that it is not based on the citizens' proposal, but is based on what the Minister for Climate and Energy has said in today's debate. That is what I see very clearly what was read out a moment ago by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It has to be said that it was good that the current climate legislation from 2014 was made, and it has to be said that there is a great need for us to make a new law. If you look at what the Climate Council has helped to focus on, then you have ensured a professionally sound basis and a coherent decision-making basis. One has had to look both at how Denmark meets its national objectives and also address the international challenges. There is every reason to thank the Climate Council for its efforts. We believe that the Climate Council has contributed with good reports and recommendations. After all, the problem has been that the government has not listened enough to the Climate Council, and we also thought it was a major step backwards when the government chose to fire the Climate Council President. I would also like to thank the green organisations that have taken the initiative on this citizens' proposal for a new climate law now. I think it is impressive that we saw 50,000 people signing this proposal in 14 days. I really think that this citizens' proposal is one of the better ones, because it has an eye that the Folketing has not taken sufficient care of the climate. In this way we formulated something that we thought the Folketing should relate to, and that is what we have done today. As far as the Enhedslisten is concerned, since 2010, we have been proposing that climate laws should be adopted with binding targets, and we have been working on this in our new climate plan, which states that a binding climate law is necessary, and the things that are in the citizens' proposal are in fact very well linked to what we have been presenting quite recently. We believe that a climate law should have binding targets to ensure that Denmark stays on the price by 50% reduction by 2030 and that we can reach a zero-emission society by 2040. We are well aware of this being more ambitious than the policies adopted up to now, but we must also note that what we have experienced with UN climate experts, who have made it clear that we have only 10-12 years to turn developments seriously, means that we have to sharpen our ambitions in Denmark. We also believe in the Enhedslisten that climate support for the poorest countries is immensely important. If you look at the citizens' proposal, which proposes 5 billion. kr. in writing. - (PT) We have been able to hear here today through today's debate that it may be something that is difficult to simply adopt and secure without further ado in the next draft budget. I have also noted that there are organisations that have looked at the government's new ways of doing things. It is the People's Church's Emergency Aid that has been out to say that when you are calculating in Denmark that you are giving 4.6 billion. kr. in climate support, they do not agree with the inventory method there is. It would therefore be appropriate to clarify this in the committee procedure that comes after this debate so that we can agree on what is missing in order to achieve the 5 billion. kr., which we think is immensely important. Then we must also say that today we are faced with the government setting up this Transport Commission to look at the burden of car traffic and what is going to happen and how to close the gap in the Treasury if all the taxes are changed. I just think it helps signal that the government is doing things way too late. It was in October that the government came up with its proposal on some climate policy, and it is here at the end of February that a commission is set up, and then it has not done what it has promised to do in relation to analysing CO2 There is every reason for this debate to continue, and it is a pity that it is late in the evening. Otherwise, I'm sure we'd just take another hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223247	In any case, there is one brief comment from Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. I don't know if he has time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223254	Excuse me, Chairman. As I have said, it is late in the evening, and I could also understand from the rapporteur that it must be late in the evening, since the rapporteur first notes that we are now starting from zero again on the same debate, despite the fact that the Minister has first explained in his speech that the government's forthcoming climate legislation, among other things, is beginning. I would like to draw your attention to the six proposals contained in the citizens' proposal. That is why I wonder, yes, now it was such an unfortunate introduction that I got but I wonder whether the rapporteur was asleep or whether the rapporteur will deliberately misunderstand what the Minister is saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223333	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223334	No, I do not think anyone is asleep yet, but I just had to say something about the text that was read out. This is what we are going to vote on this week, I assume. I guess you have to take it a little seriously when a text is read out. And there it is the government that is going to put forward a proposal for a new climate law, and I do not see in this text that, like saying yes, we have now got a citizens' proposal with six pointers, and these are the pillars of the climate law that the government is going to draft. I don't mean to be polemical, but I think it's been waving a little. One could be optimistic, and then we have come to reach, so there were some who moved back to positions that we thought they had got away from. So that's why I'm a little disappointed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223427	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223429	It says in the first line that we need a new climate law and that it requires action now. I am just afraid that the rapporteur is going to breathe into this politician's mind if the Minister's words are to be misinterpreted, although he would like to start by stressing that this is one of the things he has said. I would like to draw your attention to the six points raised by the citizens' motion for a resolution. Can the rapporteur not see that it is either a deliberate political misunderstanding that one wants, or that it may help to inflate the politician who unfortunately is out there in our society? Despite the fact that a few minutes before the rapporteur has explained what this is about, the rapporteur simply does not intend to recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223518	I really believe that the polemical approach of the rapporteur from the Left is helping to create the politician-led. I think that is quite unfortunate. But we're going to have to vote on this text, which is now being divided. I think it is a good thing that we continue the debate beyond what is the limit of the debate that was otherwise. So I'm happy with the question. I sometimes try to take the things that are written seriously, and in the text that is read by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on behalf of four parties, I have not really been able to see that it was made clear there that it was these six pillars on which it is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223601	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223619	Thanks to the World Fund for Nature, to Greenpeace, to Care Denmark, to the Danish Nature Conservation Association, to the International Co-operation, to the People's Church's Emergency Aid, the Ecological Council, World Forests, Renewable Energy, 350 Climate Movement and the Green Student Movement. Thank you for taking a citizen's proposal to Level 2. Citizens' proposals are something we have worked for from the start of our time here in the Danish Parliament and are proud of, and we can see with this proposal that it is being raised to a new level because it is not just a collection of citizens who get an idea, but it is simply organisations of citizens, well-established organisations, which are communities of citizens, who put deeply competent professionals to figure out how to best turn a climate law together. That is what we have got here today: a proposal for a way to structure a climate law, which a quarter of a million citizens are in principle behind, because they are members of these organisations. That is why we really need to listen to this. Six principles have been described here on two pages on how to bring a climate law together, and I think that is beautiful, because principles are not firm; principles are precisely something to adapt and implement to the final proposal. But that is also something that says that, if we are to be serious, we must at least bring these elements in. So it is not a question of making a climate law or not. This is precisely where many steps have been taken; here we are thinking of creating a framework which should be what a climate law contains, and then the devil in detail must of course be determined at the end, and we look forward to doing so in future cooperation. So I just want to end here by saying that we fully support this citizens' proposal, and we are great fans of the way it is screwed up and presented and also negotiated in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223846	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226223854	Thank you very much. In fact, I think we have had a good debate today. Now, I think, I have been in the Folketing for almost 12 years, and for once I had a debate where it was as if people were moving and there was more and more support in the previous debate for the citizens' proposal that lies. In fact, one had to tighten up on the part of the government to say that there was something that could not be supported, and it is still a little unclear what it is in the citizens' proposal which at least the Left does not support. The Liberal Alliance has been clearer that they cannot support what it is, and Conservatives came, I think, very close to saying that we could support what lies there. Then I know that we are now coming to a question debate and that this proposal for adoption from the government and the Danish People's Party has been written before we had this debate. But I have to say that I do share Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's experience that the proposal that was then read out here is a step backwards compared to where we were. We were very close to being able to get a majority to vote in favour of the citizens' proposal, and now we are standing by a majority that will vote through this. Not only do the government's proposals for adoption not refer to the six principles that lie and that we could understand from the Minister for Climate Change that one supports • I would say that one can still decide and vote for our proposal if one wants, if one thinks that one has moved in this debate • but what is actually worse, one uses the words climate neutrality in 2050 in the government and the Danish People's Party's proposal. I know that it is finer French text reading here and that there may be too much theologian and needy-greedy exegesis in it, but climate neutrality is therefore something other than being a net zero emitter, and in the energy agreement it says that we should be net zero emitters. This means that we must not deduce more in Denmark than we can absorb on our lands. If the government decides climate neutrality with this, then you'll resign from what's in the energy agreement. It's smaller, and it means you can buy yourself for it all. So should we understand that now we are not just going back on not being able to support the principles contained in the citizens' proposal, but we are actually going to roll it back to before the time of the energy agreement and go for climate neutrality? I'm sorry I can't be more excited. I was, in fact, relatively enthusiastic before we got to this place, and I think it might be possible to recover from this proposal for adoption and see if it was just there that we think it should land after today's debate, or perhaps even say that the government and the Danish People's Party withdraw their proposal and support the second proposal that has been put forward, which refers precisely to the six principles contained in the citizens' proposal. At least I'd be really happy about that. Then I must say from the SF that they support what I have just said here, both constructively, in that we want the citizens' proposal to be adopted, but also the annoyance that the proposal for adoption that lies is now being withdrawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224209	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. For the sake of completeness, I should just like to say that proposals for adoption should not be dealt with in this sitting; this can be done subsequently. It's just like a service information. Here you go to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224226	Thank you for that and thank you for a good and thorough debate over the last few hours. I have gotten such a little flashback, I think it was the first year I was a member of parliament, when Enhedslisten had called for debates, first about biodiversity in meadows, then about biodiversity in excess, then about biodiversity in heaths, and so we continued until 4:45 in the morning, and there I was actually quite proud of our people's government, that is that we were standing there at 4:45 in the morning. 4:45 in the morning and discussed it so seriously and so passionately. Although it is not nearly this time, I think we have had a good and serious discussion on this too. Perhaps I would like to use my speaking time here just to remind you that the citizens' proposal must be voted on independently and that this text of adoption relates to the question debate that was called for following on from the citizens' proposal. I myself have nodded to the wording of the text which was read from here earlier. I do not think there is any intention in sending out other signals about climate neutrality versus zero emissions. I think that is something linguistic, and when I read the text now, it might also be that we should have clarified it here with the six points of the citizens' proposal, which will play a part in relation to the citizens' proposal, to a greater extent than is done in the text. But for me, it doesn't matter. What has been said today in the debate is what is important, and then, of course, when we vote in the Chamber on the citizens' proposal. So it is not this text of adoption that determines whether or not the citizen's proposal comes into being. I think we owe it to the 65 000 citizens who signed it and to treat it as an independent point. But thank you for a good debate, and I would also like to refer to my previous speech in relation to the more professional one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224415	There are a few brief comments. First it's Mrs. Ida Auken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224418	I'm gonna sign for a few things. Firstly, I understand at least that the Conservatives are going to be on a net zero emitter and that this was a linguistic difference. It's not when you have to figure it out, so we're really happy about that. The second is that I understand that the Conservatives will vote in favour of the Climate Act when it lies there and there has been a lot going back and forth. The Conservative People's Party can support the Climate Act as it stands and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224452	But frankly, I sometimes think it's gonna be a little silly. For no, I have not said that the Conservative People's Party will vote in favour of the citizens' proposal. I have said that the Conservative People's Party, like the rest of the government, is extremely positive about this citizens' proposal. We shall be discussing this in committee. We are going to question whether we are sure that we understand the same thing. When there's a pointer number. 4, do I put the same thing in it? Because there I think we owe it to those who have tabled the citizens' proposal that if we vote through it in this Chamber, we should not go out and argue about: what does an independent Climate Council mean? I would like to ask each of the parties that are now and here ready to vote for it: what is your model? What is your model for an independent Climate Council? No specific model is mentioned in the citizens' proposal, and I do not think that is the case because there is no model. That is why I still agree with the intention that we should find a model. But we owe it to you that when we press the button, we have the same interpretation of what's in these six pointers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224551	Mrs Ida Auken does not wish to speak. Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224559	I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur, who concludes by saying that it seems to us that we owe it to the citizen's proposal to deal with it in the same way. I think, in fact, that I, like Mrs Ida Auken, am a little confused, because if you are actually saying that the prerequisite for supporting this citizens' proposal is that it is changed, then perhaps it was actually very good to say now that, in a way, you agree with the principles. Now Mrs Mette Abildgaard has said that with net zero and climate neutrality, or whatever you say, may have been a mistake, and perhaps you could also have referred to the principles of the citizens' proposal, so I would like to hear: is there anything in our proposal for adoption that could not be voted for? For there we actually have both the right wording on where we should end up and the principles of the citizens' proposal. We could then avoid the little confusion that has come about about something linguistic in the government's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224702	If sir... Jens Joel is confused, I think, because Mr. Jens Joel chooses to be confused, understood in the sense that there can be no doubt that the government is based on the citizen's proposal. I did not hear much difference between what the government's rapporteurs have said, what the Minister has said, and that, Mr President. Jens Joel said himself. I asked Mr. Jens Joel: Does the Social Democratic Party vote for the citizens' proposal? I asked you twice. I didn't get a clear yes. I was not told that yes, the Social Democrats vote for the citizens' proposal. If that's the case, I'd still like to hear it. I heard: No, we have to go back to committee; we have some things to ask about and we have to discuss. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party must have that privilege, but the rest of us must not have the privilege that there are some things we need to learn more about? There are some things we need to ask more questions about. I think that is a privilege that we should all have here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224752	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224756	I have actually been quite precise about the fact that it is about us not being able to deliver and promise that there are 5 billion. kr. extra in development aid on 1 January, and of course we need to have clarified that. Mrs Mette Abildgaard could be just as precise about what it is that you want to change. The minister could be precise about what you would have liked to have changed. We are actually saying that we want to support this proposal and we have a point where we need to clarify what we mean by it. What I hear is that the government's rapporteurs have a lot of areas where they are not sure what it means, and it is then used as an excuse not to state clearly that the intention of the citizens' proposal is actually supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224837	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224839	So if I have to sum up: the social democracy supports the citizens' bill if the government supports the citizens' bill, if yes, if we get some different things spelled out; if we get clarity about what an independent Climate Council is and how we define it, do we have the same view of it? And that is where we share the sense of responsibility of the Social Democratic Party in being able to give funding. So there is no difference between what the Social Democrats have said today and what I am saying here and now, although I understand that there is a political desire to make it look like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224911	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224914	Now I am somewhat surprised at the debate because the citizens' motion is presented as a motion for a resolution, and there is, after all, a very great difference between the nature of the resolution and the nature of the legislative proposal. The motion for a resolution is typically a little overarching, in which it says that the government is required to do so and so, and then it has to be put into practice and planned in detail what it should look like in a legislative text. That's why you could agree to this framework that this citizen's proposal has, and then, when you implement it, find out all the details. I guess that's how it usually works.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226224955	I recognise that there is a difference between a motion for a resolution and a draft law, of course there is. But we have also rejected quite a large number of resolutions tabled by the Conservative People's Party, among others. The Danish People's Party, which otherwise contains good proposals, good intentions, things with which we agree, but where we do not think that there is a funding, where we do not think there is a plan for how we provide that money, and therefore it is entirely legitimate that parties, such as the Danish People's Party, should be given funding. The Danish People's Party, or all sorts of others, makes good proposals that we will have discussed in this Chamber, but before we can press the green button, we will have to have it in place. It has also meant that we have supported resolutions from the Danish People's Party when we have used the committee procedure to get these things in place. In the same way, we are still open to how this is going to end when we have had a good discussion of it in committee. Let's see if we can't reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225051	Then we thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard. I need to know if the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate wants to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225105	Thank you for that, President. I think it is most right that ministers should come to an end and allow questions to be asked. And I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate and also to thank you for the fact that when it comes to tackling climate change and the serious challenge facing the world, there is still more in this Parliament that brings us together than there is that divides us. I am very pleased about that. The challenge we face is great. We had it presented over the summer in a report on the report, and not least the latest report from the UN Panel on Climate Change clearly showed that there is a challenge, but also that we still have time to act. That is why I am also glad that we have had the debate today, and I think that a clear signal has been sent, including from the governing parties, that the citizens' proposal is in many ways good and a good basis for the further work on creating a new climate law. We will start this work and work intensively on it. And although there are a lot of sensible people in the debate that have signed up to the proposal, there are over 60 000, and I think that is very good, there is also a need for us to have an even wider public debate. And there we are now happy to set in motion a public debate, hearings, discussions with the Energy, Supply and Climate Committee, so that we get into every corner of Denmark, all the views are on the table, so that we get the best possible basis for a new and even more ambitious climate law. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225247	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225250	I still hope that this debate today reflects the fact that the government has become wiser. So I would like to ask you quite specifically whether the Left has moved from the time when the President of the Left, the current Prime Minister, said that it was unrealistic, too ambitious and naive, when we were a number of other parties that entered into a climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225321	I think that this question is yet another expression of the controversy that some would like to see there being a conflict when it comes to climate change. I guess some people are growing this more than government parties are. What I am concerned about is that we get the Folketing together on an ambitious climate bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225343	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225344	I understand that the climate minister would like this to be controversial. In my previous rapporteur's speech, I referred to the reduction in energy research, the attempt to cancel offshore wind farms, scrapped climate targets, etc., etc. Well, I understand that the Minister would like it to be controversial, but we're just trying to keep the government up on what the government has actually meant for the last four years, and that's probably not quite unreasonable. But I could ask quite specifically: in our proposal for adoption, a request is being made for the government to call for negotiations on a strengthened Climate Law before the parliamentary elections... will the Minister be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225427-2	When Mr. Jens Joel portrays it as if nothing has happened in the last four years, I must say that then I shake my head. One can look at the energy agreement that we got implemented in the Danish Parliament that is surely the most ambitious agreement ever. Mrs Abildgaard and others have explained the content of the three offshore wind farms, each of which is at least 800 MW, an effort in relation to research, tenders, the goal that we will reach 100 per cent. Green electricity by 2030, more than 55%. of the total energy demand based on renewable energy. Then I just have to say that I really think there is reason to be proud, and we are not just in the government; we should actually all be happy that we can reach each other, and I hope we can, when we are about to negotiate a new climate law.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225519	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225521	Now it was a fairly specific question from Mr. Jens Joel, namely whether the Minister will call for negotiations on a strengthened Danish climate law with binding reduction targets, and that this should happen before a parliamentary election. There is a difference, like grasping the intentions of this citizens' proposal, which is based on the six pillars, and which suggests that it is a new climate law now I think there is a difference of six months between the two. That is why it is a very relevant question whether the Minister will call for negotiations, as stated in the proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225623	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225623-2	Thank you for that question. What I can guarantee is that we will set work in motion. We will do so immediately with a new climate law. Then I can't predict when there's gonna be a parliamentary election. I leave it to the Prime Minister to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225637	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225638	Then the Minister did not answer whether he would like to call for negotiations. He wants to set work in motion, which means that some people are beginning to write on something, and then it is the government's plan that there should be some sort of consultation on the other side of the summer vacation. That is not what the citizens' proposal has outlined. I think that's a shame. Is that correct summarized?
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225658	What is correct is that we are launching a public debate. We'll do that very soon. And then we put forward a proposal for a new Climate Act in the upcoming Assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225707	Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Thursday, 28 February.
ParlaMint-DK_20190226225719	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 February, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
