ParlaMint-DK_20191126130024	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130033	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130039	Yesterday there were new figures, and although I am an optimist by nature, I have to say that unfortunately it is gloomy reading. The level of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has reached a new record at a time when we need the opposite, namely that it is falling. I think it is clear that we need to do more. Thousands of Danes already do that every single day... all those who work in our green workplaces, in large production halls and small laboratories. Thanks to all of you who work hard out there in the real world for the green transition. We must also do a lot of work on the green transition here in Parliament, which is why I would like to start by thanking you for the fact that we have been able to reach an agreement across all parties, where we are allocating significantly more money to green research • 1 billion. kr. additionally so skilled researchers are given the opportunity to find the solutions we do not yet know. Before Christmas, we also need to have a binding climate law in place. Thank you for your strong support for at least the ambition of a binding climate law. In the Finance Law negotiations right here behind me in the red building, there is a picture that we can jointly have some crucial new and more green decisions taken. It seems that we can, in short, take the next major steps, starting to realise the fine words from the understanding paper. I'm really proud of that. It goes without saying that we cannot solve everything at once, but we are in the process and we have set a new course. Once again, thank you for the broad support for Denmark again being a green leader nation. Today there have also been some other figures which I think should be of concern. Less school students in Denmark read well. Almost every tenth student in the 8th grade does not do very well in reading. It is not only worrying, it is very serious in my view. It will be difficult to get by in the future without being able to read, write and count, and the skills you do not get as a child and young people risk many being short of the rest of your life. It covers up some deep social injustices, and it is too easy in my view to just shoot at primary school, because in the end we and our colleagues in the municipalities are responsible for what the school looks like. It is also too easy to blame teachers. I believe that we have both talented and committed teachers who are passionate about lifting the students. The Folkeskole has been surrounded by many changes in recent years, but on the basis of these figures we need to discuss again how to ensure a better framework, so that teachers have more time with our children and thus can guarantee or at least work for less unrest in the class so that more people get better at reading, writing and arithmetic and at the same time of course develop the critical sense and ability to take responsibility for our society. We must bring the problems to light. I am very pleased with the cooperation that has started between KL and the teachers in relation to a new start for the primary school, and the rest of us should feel obliged to do so. Politically, the framework of the primary school has been adopted by a broad majority here in the Folketing, but in my view these new figures deserve a renewed political focus. We take that on the part of the government as well. That is also why I am very pleased with the ongoing financial law negotiations, in other words because we have the opportunity there to also ensure a boost to primary school. There are enough challenges, and therefore I look forward to a financial law that will both make Denmark greener and give our common welfare society a much needed and necessary boost. I also welcome the fact that two people have already today been deprived of their Danish nationality administratively as a result of the law we recently dealt with urgently in this Chamber. This shows the importance of urgent consideration of the legislative proposal, and it is essential, in my view, that we continue along the same path. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130450	Thank you. And we now move on to questions from the party leaders. The questioner and the Prime Minister both have up to 2 minutes' speaking time, and then follow two follow-up questions where the questioner and the Prime Minister each have 1 minute's speaking time. It's first, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130506	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Prime Minister for the briefing. I will start somewhere else, because in the Prime Minister's opening speech the Prime Minister spoke a lot about it with confidence; about trust in each other, both in here and in the rest of society, and about trust in the institutions. And one of the things that we, as politicians, must have confidence in is that the official work that might be taken over at some given time is unpolitical. There has been some discussion about this lately because the government has chosen to fill seven out of nine suddenly vacant posts as head of press or communication with people who have either worked for the Social Democratic Party or have a close connection with the Minister. It may not be something that actually supports the confidence that politicians can have in a neutral civil service or that citizens of Denmark can have in the neutrality of their official work. The Prime Minister has been called for consultation by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament on this. It was adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, chaired by the Chairman of the Danish Parliament. Will the Prime Minister show up for that consultation? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130627	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130628	First of all, I would like to agree entirely with the fundamental considerations, both about trust and, of course, also the importance of trusting in the official work which must work well and properly under changing governments and thus changing oppositions, and indeed also on behalf of the whole country; very many and important decisions are taken in the central administration. I have full confidence in the officials who are employed. This applies both to the officials who have been recruited under the former government and to the officials who have been recruited under this government. This also applies to officials who may have been employed by previous governments. So I have no reason not to trust the people who are employed. I also think it is important for me to say that we do not have key jobs. In each ministry, you hire the employees you need to hire, and I think that's a good way to do it. That is why I think it is most true that it is the minister responsible who answers questions about recruitment in the specific ministry, just as I myself have done with regard to the Prime Minister's Office. And then we have chosen to place the overall staff responsibility with the tax minister. It is, in fact, a very firm practice which was also used under the government of which the questioner himself was part of the fact that it is the resortly responsible minister who answers questions from the Folketing. And I think that's a pretty good tradition to hold on to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130757	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130759	In other words, no. That was the short version of the answer. The Prime Minister simply will not show up to make the Danish Parliament more aware of how suddenly the case will be, that so many posts have become vacant, and that seven out of nine posts as Head of the Press or Head of Communications in the ministries have been occupied by people associated with the Social Democracy or with the ministers concerned. After all, this is not about the individual post in the individual ministry; this is about a system of employee recruitment, which is obviously not neutral, but is party political. You don't have to look a lot at the so-called social media to find out that these aren't neutral people we're talking about. Does the Prime Minister not see at all that it seems to be known beyond the coincidence that seven out of nine employees in this way are associated with the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130856	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126130857	After all, there were similar discussions when the Left came into government about appointments in the ministries, and I believe that in the ministries decisions of this kind are taken on the basis of which we should, and I think that is what should apply to this government as well as to others. On the question of neutrality, I think there are two things to say. One is that the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament who is not the government, but the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has on several occasions attached great importance to the fact that public employees also have freedom of expression. I lean on that recommendation and I would also recommend the President of the Left to do the same. Then it is clear that when you have a leading position in the central administration, you are also obliged to consider carefully when you speak and on what basis you do so, thus making it very clear when you are a private person and when you are a civil servant. However, to go in and say that public employees in Denmark do not have freedom of expression, I really do not recommend.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131003	Sir. Mr Jakob-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen on his
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131005	I just don't think anyone has done that either. I certainly haven't. I didn't even imply it. What I am saying, and I say this more than hints, is that political appointments are made through the back door instead of taking the discussion at the front door. If you... Comment from the Chamber It is quite clear that this is about political recruitment and that you do it by the back door instead of doing it by the front door. I think it would be a good idea to take that discussion. If you want to have more political officials, then let us take that discussion instead of sneaking it in that way and pretending that it is quite a coincidence that all those posts have become vacant and that they have funny enough been occupied by employees of the Social Democratic Party. It's not a coincidence, and it's no part of saying, "Well, that's what you did." First of all, no. Secondly, that wouldn't make things any better. Can the Prime Minister stand here and guarantee that the Prime Minister has not been involved in meetings where the appointment of the staff concerned has been discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131115	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131116	We don't have key appointments in the ministries. There's an appointment committee in the government. Of course, I have sat there myself, and there we have no discussions about the appointment of press executives; I do not think we should have that either. I have chosen to do this openly and honestly, and I understand that the Left is opposed to hiring several special advisers in the Prime Minister's Office, because I simply think it is necessary. I have not, moreover, proposed that there should be a lot of political recruitment of officials, and I do not want to put up with that either. I understand there is a desire from the Danish Parliament to discuss how recruitment of, among other things. Press executives are going on. I think that is a completely reasonable discussion. After all, when it comes to the recruitment of individuals and their qualifications, the decision is the responsibility of the Ministry which employs them. And I am just saying that I have no reason to challenge the fact that the officials employed in the Danish central administration are qualified for the task they are carrying out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131218	Thank you. And the question is over. The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131226	Thank you for that, President. And thank the Prime Minister for the opening words of today's Question Time. Perhaps I should also like to say at the outset that I do agree with the criticism voiced by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen. In other words, I think there is some sort of system of recruitment in the state apparatus of the present government, which should give rise to Parliament taking it very seriously and engaging in what is happening and whether it is true that it is happening and if not what you do about it. That is why I would also call on the Prime Minister to engage in that debate here in the Folketing as well. And we in the Danish People's Party in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will raise the question whether we will have to ask from the Danish Parliament to have some form of new investigation of power which outlines the relationship between the Folketing and the government and the government's use of the state apparatus. Because it is, in principle, a very, very important discussion for the Folketing to take. The question I have then chosen to raise in Question Time here today is a slightly different one. And that's because on Sunday I got a surprise... not politically, but nevertheless a surprise at the connection... because the Radical Left's sergeant... Morten Østergaard in Danmarks Radio said that the Radical Left in the Finance Law negotiations will not vote to maintain the current border controls between Denmark and Germany. Now these negotiations are taking place precisely in these days, and the Prime Minister has expressed his belief that they will also be settled with a financial settlement. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister today at Question Time to guarantee the Danish Parliament that there will be no financial law agreement without guaranteeing the financial resources in the Finance Act to maintain border controls at least at the level it currently has.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131417	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131418	Well, I'd like to say a few things. First of all, if there is a wish from the Danish Parliament that we once again have been done by some rounds, looking down into the relations between the government and the Danish Parliament, I think we can do just that. Whether to do so in one way or another, we can discuss it together. It is true that there are many fundamental discussions about how we organise our democracy, and I would always like to get involved in that. I do the same in Question Time here today. Secondly, with regard to border controls: well, my position on border controls is quite well known. I think border controls are important, and that is why we have chosen to extend Danish border controls in relation to Germany, and we have also chosen to introduce border controls in respect of Sweden. I would also like to stress that this is not just about Denmark. A number of European countries are doing the same, and that is because border controls are needed. So we are not going to question in any way whether there should be border controls in Denmark. As far as the negotiations on the Finance Act are concerned, I have today expressed my hope that an agreement can be reached. I am not going to go into what we are discussing in concrete terms, but we have made our position absolutely clear: of course there is border controls, and in my optics it is not a matter for some parties to sit down and negotiate in debates that deal with something quite different. It is, of course, a decision taken as a government and as a Parliament on the basis of the information we have on the security of the empire, for example. terrorist risk, the situation in the field of integration and aliens and the fight against crime. Of course Denmark must have border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131600	Kristian Thulesen Dahl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131602	After all, I am very pleased with the political statement made by the Prime Minister, namely that of course Denmark must have border controls. We are also pleased that there has been some control on the transition from Sweden to Denmark, and it is important for us in the Danish People's Party that it gives itself; everyone knows that we have maintained border controls between Denmark and Germany as well. I also have great respect for my political opponents, and I also have great respect for the Radical Left. I do not like their policies in a lot of areas, but I have respect for the way they work and for the way they get their way through and influence, including this government in relation to the facilitation of foreigners and the like. We've discussed this before. And it's clear that when sir... Morten Østergaard, as chairman of the influential Radical Left, as the Danish Parliament is now composed, says that you will not finance a passport control between Denmark and Germany. That was said on Sunday, during the debates. I'm gonna have to ask the Prime Minister to deal with this. Can the Prime Minister therefore give Parliament a guarantee that a financial agreement will not be drawn up here one of the days which will accept that we do not have the necessary resources, but that it will be stated in the Finance Act that there will be the economy needed to maintain border controls?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131723	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131724	I do not want to go into specifics and comment on the negotiations that are taking place. They are entering their final phase. I believe in a good result, but I can guarantee that we will also have border controls next year in Denmark, because of course we have judged that to be right and necessary. I can see that it is not only Denmark that makes that decision. A number of European countries do the same. I know that Sweden has just decided to arm its border controls, so that is absolutely necessary. With regard to the issue of facilitation and immigration policy, I would like to say that I think it is interesting that, when we choose to stick to strict immigration policy, but at the same time very clearly say that in a similar situation Mint and children should no longer be in a position to be in a position to be in a position, we will actually adopt that amendment by a broad majority here in the Folketing. This shows that much of what we are discussing in the field of foreigners is not a matter of tightening and relaxing. It's about holding on to how many people come to Denmark so that we can make integration work, but of course we can also help some children who have got caught.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131827	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131828	I would very much like to take that discussion there we look at things differently. In relation to border controls, the interesting thing is that the Prime Minister would not agree to answer here. It is, of course, that we are really opening the way for a financial agreement to be drawn up where the economy is not set aside to continue border controls, but that we will then come to the rest of us in the hope that we can then find some sort of variant. Well, I don't know how to make it. For if the economy of the Finance Act for next year does not exist, for example. passport control and border control, as we know it today, it is because the Radical Left will not finance passport control between Denmark and Germany If you make a financial agreement on the one hand, and on the other hand say that the economy is still to continue, then the two things cannot be linked at one and the same time unless you have some source of funding I do not know whether the Social Democratic Party will pay for it itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131923	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126131925	I am not sure that I just have financial resources to pull it out of the party box, but on the last day it was an excellent purpose to spend its money on, I would say. I'm kidding. I think that is quite reasonable. I know that the questioner himself has used the same thing on other occasions, in other words that one can, of course, negotiate in the room where one sits and negotiates, also in respect of one another. But I know that there is a massive majority for border controls in the Danish Parliament. I can start by looking at the questioner and asking whether the Danish People's Party still supports border controls. I think that's a yes. I look down at the President of the Left and ask whether the Left does not continue to support border controls. There is no nodding, but in the past, at least, the Left has been in favour of border controls. Then I'll look over at mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who doesn't answer either, but I think he's nodding. As far as I can see, the mandates are completely intact behind a Danish border control. That goes for next year too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132020	The question is closed. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132029	Then the elephant came into the room, not the four elephants, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen seems to be a little expensive, but the discussion that we are having here. And it's exciting. I would like to start by saying that I thought it was good to hear the Prime Minister's words about primary school. It is not something that has found its way to the government's financial bill, but I nevertheless think that the signal is important, because there is a need for teachers to have more time with children and better time to succeed in their task and for there to be a real new start. So I think there is only reason to take it down positively. Then I think there is another thing worth staying with, and that is that the first of the children who are related to Denmark and who are in Syrian refugee camps has now returned. I guess it's strictly the other one, but the child we're talking about here was a baby who's an orphan. This is a tragic case in which I, too, would like to express my appreciation of the government's efforts to bring that child home. It is, of course, primarily at great cost to the child and the families, but it is not without difficulty and without risk to make the effort, and that is why I would also like to pay tribute to all those who have been involved in it. I would also like to say that when I see the reactions, among other things. from the Danish People's Party and from various other leaders and edges, expressing that it is a gesture that one cannot do with the security of the nation in mind, I must say that it is a rare cynicism. I would actually like to ask for the Prime Minister's reaction to the fact that people believe that an 11-month-old child can, in any way, be a threat to the security of the state, neither to the parent nor to his ethnic origin. Secondly, I would just like to say that if this is the case for an 11-month-old orphan, does it not also apply to another equally old child who has not, however, suffered the damage that both parents have come from days?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132236	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132238	Now I'm still new in this discipline with Question Time, at least in this role. I really believe that from here I will allow others to put their own words, and I will only comment on what is the government's policy in this area. And this is quite difficult, I would like to say quite frankly. It is quite awful that there are children in camps in Syria who are associated with the Islamic State in every possible way. After all, we have made the decision as a government that we do not take the children to Denmark because their parents have turned their backs on Denmark, travelled out, joined the Islamic State and thus made a choice, both on their own and on their children's behalf. This is not an easy decision, but when we do not want mothers to come to Denmark, it also limits our ability to help children. And I do not want the parents of Denmark, I also made that clear in the last Question Time. That's why I think we should see our efforts in this area from a number of sides. It is true that we are helping in a specific case with a small orphan boy, because there are some particular humanitarian conditions that are quite obvious, and we want to do so, but we are equally concerned about taking the citizenship of adults who have turned their backs on Denmark, and I think that we should see things in context. When it comes to the little boy here, at least with the information we have, there is talk of an orphan child and thus a particularly vulnerable child who has no one around him to look after him. That is why I think it is a right decision for the little one to come to Denmark too, but it does not change the attitude of the government towards the other children's group, whose fate I regret, incidentally.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132434	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132436	I would then just like to acknowledge, in relation to the specific, once again the government's efforts for the specific child and wish that that aspect of the government's work might appear more often. Because I find it difficult to see that small babies should be taken hostage in that conflict when we could do something about it, and at least I find it difficult with national safety glasses to say that it should benefit Denmark to let them grow up in such a camp. I do not think they will be a minor threat to the world, including Denmark. But when we are on the issue of security, I would like to move on to the question of border controls and say that for the Radical Left it is not a desire to save the police. There is also no desire to relax efforts to combat cross-border crime, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it comes as a surprise that the Radical Left is not in favour of permanent passport control between Denmark and Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132539	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132540	No, it does not, but hopefully it will not come as a surprise that the government is preoccupied with a proper border control, with what is involved. We need to dwell a little bit on the children in Syria, because it may sound like if you wanted to just take the children out, and then you could leave it to the children, but you cannot, because we have no legal basis to separate children and families and children from their mothers. This means, in my view, that if, as a parliament and government, you made that decision today, that is to say that those children are going to Denmark or another European country, it is not only the children you decide on, it is also their mothers and potentially their fathers, and that is what we do not want, because those people do not belong in Denmark, they do not belong here. Unfortunately, some of them have Danish citizenship, and I am sorry to say, because they should not have that with the approach they have to democracy, freedom and Denmark and our people. And when we do not want those men and women who, against all reason and all real values, have traveled away from Denmark and joined the caliphate to return to Denmark, their children will pay the price. Perhaps they should have considered that themselves before they left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132653	Sir. Morten Østergaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132654	I mean, I think you should punish people who are terrorists. We have also voted in favour of legislation that could include people's passports if they intended to go to places where terrorism and armed struggle could be waged against Danish troops and thus treason. That is why I think the best thing is to punish people for their crimes and not keep their children in a situation. Now the Prime Minister said that child was particularly vulnerable. It has to be said that, from a general point of view, this is true of all the children who are in those camps, namely that they are in a totally insanely vulnerable situation. The less they are, the greater the risk. And the longer they get to be there and grow up, maybe in 10 years' time, the more danger they get to be to the world when you think about who they're with. So to the last question I want to ask. I think it is strange to experience the EU skepticism that sneaks into the operation of the government, and I cannot understand why it has wanted to block a budget that has put the Danes 700 million. kr. better than the government had expected when it made its financial bill. This gives us the opportunity to invest in good things, for example. green conversion for 700 million. kr. more next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132807	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132809	After all, I do not think that being budgetaryly restrictive on behalf of the European Union is to be EU skeptical. In fact, I believe that the opposite is almost the case: if we are to have the support of our European peoples for the cooperation that is so strong and so valuable, then we also have to pursue the right policy. And I am very sceptical about this, not about the European Union, but here I am, because when we become a country smaller and then almost per. I think we are making a mistake. A country less should really encourage us to the contrary, namely to spend less money, but to spend it wiser and more properly. That is why we have voted as we have in relation to the European Union's budget for 2020. It also reflects, of course, how we look at the multiannual budget that we have started negotiating. I would also like to say that in the actual vote we voted with Sweden, Austria and the Netherlands, and I also believe Bulgaria, but at least the three countries. We are four countries that have agreed to go together on budgetary issues, and I believe that this will benefit the European Union, not the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132924	Thank you. The question is over. The next question is Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126132931	Today we received very serious news, namely from the United Nations, which says that if we continue as it looks right now, the temperature on the planet will rise by 3.2 degrees. 3.2 degrees will have consequences for the polar bears, which will have consequences for our garden, which means that Roskilde Fjord is flooding again, just to mention some of the consequences it has when we have temperature increases, from Greenland to the large oceans of the world and right into Roskilde Fjord and perhaps also Roskilde's citizens. The United Nations report simply emphasises that we need ambitious targets, both globally and in Denmark as well. We are currently negotiating a Climate Law, while at the same time negotiating Finance Law, where we also come up with a little on the subject, one must say "or even very much" and that will make sense, I think. But what becomes interesting is the whole discussion, as there is, among other things. with the Left, namely whether the reductions should be national or whether, in the end, we can buy a little indulgence in the world because it can be too difficult. Do not countries like Denmark have to commit to national reductions so that we deliver on the challenges we face?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133050	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133052	First of all, I fully share the seriousness of the matter and had it at the outset here today. For that is what should only be pushed here in the Folketing to get the climate legislation in place so that we can start the next round of negotiations, which is the one that will be really interesting. This is not because the Climate Act is not what I just see the Climate Act as the first major decision, and then we have to get started with a climate action plan. This is what we have agreed on in the understanding paper. This is where we start to make decisions in earnest about how we actually reduce our emissions and achieve the 70-percent target. I know, of course, that what the questioner is asking is one of the things discussed in the negotiations on the Climate Act, and I would like to leave the negotiations to all of you sitting at the table, as I said in relation to border controls, but I would like to say in principle that when, on the basis of the understanding paper, we have set up a 70-percent objective as the whole basis for the government's work, it is a 70-percent objective that is about Denmark and our emissions, and that is what has been aimed. And, of course, I hope for a climate law that is binding and that is ambitious, but which also gives us some room to make the smartest and the long-term decisions, both year by year, but also in the longer-term.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133231	Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133232	I am very pleased about that, because that will be the challenge. It is of course both to do it wisely and to do it at the right time and not to think that with the low-hanging fruits right now and here we are going to finish on the long track, because it has to be done in a gifted way. But what becomes central with a Climate Act and all respect for the negotiations is that I have the utmost confidence that they are doing well over in the Ministry of Climate, because some of us are using some of the forces elsewhere. However, there are some of the basic elements, namely whether it is national that we are reducing, but also whether we are constantly moving towards the reduction target. It is one of the things that becomes important in a climate law, so that we not only wait and say that by 2030 we have committed ourselves to 70% reduction, but that along the way there will also be a path, so that we can see that it may well be that we cannot deliver everything at a certain pace, but that we reach there, and not only in 2028, we are suddenly standing with the hat in our hand and have to deliver on it. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is not important that we have the kind of obligation to deliver, so that we get to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133337	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133338	I think it is quite obvious and correct that the task is not to reduce just as we approach 2030. We have a very ambitious 2030 target, but it has to be reflected in the decisions and in the policy we are pursuing, also year by year. However, in order to create a link with one of the decisions that have already been taken, namely one billion. kr. In addition to green research, the decision is a very good illustration of the fact that we can make a decision now that we cannot read on CO2 but it may be that the money that comes out to work next year is what makes us find the technology and the solutions that make us see in 2027 or 2024 or when it is now that we are on the right track. That is why I think things should be seen in a context. But we have no desire and we have no ambition to calm down for the next eight years and then to hurry over the last few years. There we have to want something more, and I think we can do that together, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133439	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133440	I have to say that I am now sitting in the red building of the Ministry of Finance, and there I certainly do not think there is any calm in this area, so I think we can move some steps forward without revealing too much. But the last question is that of the link that exists in the debate, which I think is a false contradiction, i.e. that if we are to do something for the climate, growth or employment will suffer. In Denmark there are very many people employed in e.g.: The wind turbine industry, but also in some of the other surrounding energy companies, which have really contributed to the green transition. We can just mention a few examples, such as ROCKWOOL, Danfoss, Grundfos and VELUX, to name some of those who provide energy savings in the energy saving sector, and the reason why I do so is, of course, that I think that that is what creates jobs for the future, and I think that is a false contradiction. So I would like to hope that, when we come forward with this, we can both create new jobs in Denmark, but also deliver on the green transition, and that we will not end up with each other's contradictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133541	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133542	But I'm pretty sure we can. When it comes to both the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, we have together produced an understanding paper with a historical ambition on behalf of the climate, but at the same time we also have an explicit desire to strengthen employment, and we have an opportunity to do so. If we look back a little in recent years in Denmark's recent development, if we look at the latest approx. 30 years, then we can see that production in Denmark's energy emissions is actually fairly stable, but that economic activity has gone like this has been good at getting richer due to productivity, so simply by becoming more skilled and doing things in a different way. On top of that, it is quite right that thousands of people go to work in Denmark every day because of the green transition not despite, but because of the green transition and what we have to do together, both in the climate negotiations, but also in a financial law, is always to support that the two things come to go hand in hand, and I very much agree with SF you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133654	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. The next question is Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133703	Thank you. I will start by supporting Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in the fact that the milestones towards 2030 are really important and absolutely central, including in the climate legislation negotiations. It is true that it is also a good idea to invest in green technology and the development of new technology, but we actually know what needs to be done, and the important thing is that we stop each other from getting there quickly. It was a sidekick with regard to what I was actually going to ask. I would like to ask you about yesterday's statement which shows that 11 000 people are about to leave their homes, which is roughly equivalent to asking the whole of Struer or the whole of Hobro to move. Many of the people we are talking about have no idea where to move, they lose their neighbours, their networks and their everyday lives. These are ordinary people, and for thousands of them the reason why they have to move is the so-called ghetto package that the Social Democrats, together with the SF and the Right, have made, which means that entire residential areas are forced to tear down and sell from, so only 40%. the housing of the area is common. So it hits thousands of people, and we see it happen these days. These are people who do not have very much money and who cannot just get a mortgage and move on Strandvejen, and there will be no corresponding general housing provided at the same low prices • those that are being built will be significantly more expensive. That is why the question is as simple as I put it when there was another Prime Minister sitting in the chair: where are the people who do not have very much money to live?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133855	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126133856	To start with, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also mentioned, it is true that we know a lot when it comes to technology and the green solutions, but we do not know everything yet, and the whole learning issue is one of the areas in which we lack both technological development and much more research than what we have today. This also applies to agricultural CO2 I am very proud that Denmark is an agricultural country, and I think we should produce our own food, but in the future we will have to do so with a small print on the climate, and there will be research to help us. I could go on, but I think that, at least as far as I can see, we will spend a lot of money on research in here if we are to resolve the climate crisis. Then there is the question of the ghetto package or vulnerable residential areas and what we are facing. I think that it is one of the best agreements made in the Danish Parliament. For me, it is an absolutely necessary solidarity that so many children should not continue to grow up in vulnerable residential areas where there are such significant problems. That's why I started by saying that I know we're looking at this very differently, and it's interesting how different the eyes can see what Denmark we're both part of. I think it is a good agreement where we finally address some of what we have known for a very long time is a problem, namely that for many people with too many problems, we tend to live together in the same residential areas, especially in the general housing sector, and we need to do something about this, so that children have better opportunities to learn Danish, women enter the labour market, and we have strengthened the cohesion that I believe Denmark is dependent on. We will then have to face some very specific challenges, and that is a real question. I understand that there is a little discussion about the figure of 11 000, because there is also a natural relocation from these residential areas, so I suppose the figure will be smaller after all. But the problem is still real: where are these people going to move to? In my view, it is really important that the municipalities are immediately aware of the need to get them back and to ensure that there are enough housing. And then I hope that during this parliamentary term, in addition to getting hold of Blackstone and some of the foreign landlords, which I hope we are doing well, we will also be discussing how to build some more general housing and keep the price on them down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134118	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134120	It is true: it is sometimes interesting how the eyes can see it differently, and I would say that the word solidarity was simply not the first thing that came up in my head when I read, for example, that the ollekolle in the Mjølnerparken is one of the oldest, and where two walks of older people live side by side and do homework cafes or what they do; lunch days for neighborhood children must move. I mean, I just don't think solidarity is the word they just feel you have to put on this deal. And it's just strange that you can live in one of these areas you can pay your taxes, go to work or have made it your whole life and retired, you can even be some of those who contribute through volunteering in civil society, i.e. a model citizen when we talk in here at Christiansborg. But it's like just because you're a tenant, you have to put up with the fact that you can just get kicked out. Well, if it was people who owned their homes, then the Constitution would protect them. However, the people who rent their homes and do not have very much money, but pay rent and even contribute to the fact that all the other tenants can get some decent places to live, do not have the same rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134234	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134236	This is an extremely interesting and important discussion. Because I feel quite basically that I want us in Denmark to have a housing policy where every single one of us sitting in this room, in this Parliament Hall, and making decisions, wants to live in any residential area in Denmark. And the hand on the heart: I do not think that is the case today. And what must not happen is that we have large residential areas where the ethnic composition has become too distorted, where social problems have become too great, where insecurity and crime are present, and where children have a much harder chance of achieving the same opportunities as children living in other areas. Simply because not enough Danish is spoken, and because too many are challenged in different ways. And I find it difficult to see how else we should really get in and get the basic social problems and problems related to a wrong alien policy if we had not made the ghetto agreement, or agreement on vulnerable residential areas where we go in more structurally and solve some of the problems. But that does not change the fact that there may be specific problems and specific circumstances, and we must of course take this seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134352	Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134354	Well, well, I just think it's a mysterious, caricatured discussion that's been going on for a really long time in here, but now we're just gonna take it one more time. After all, nobody says that the vulnerable residential areas in Denmark are problem-free. Nor do I think there are any of the people who live there and who may even have chosen to live there and want to live there, like to live there, who say that it is completely smooth and seamless. The question is: do you help those people by tearing down their homes? Or are you helping those people by putting in proper housing social bets, proper bets around the primary school? All the things that we have repeatedly proposed. And that's why my last question to the Prime Minister about this is, of course, that I think there are a lot of people who feel a lot stepped on in it. And some of the questions they ask themselves are: do they deal only with the problems of crime and social problems, or is it also about where people come from? The question is: why is the decisive criterion between a exposed residential area and a so-called hard ghetto, whether 50%. of the residents have a different ancestry from Danish, that is, that the crucial thing for a hard ghetto is where people's grandparents come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134508	Thank you. Then it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134510	Well, I think there is a connection, and I think it is good that we have finally got on the table, that the housing social challenges that exist are not only about unemployment, lack of education, Danish knowledge, but also about ethnicity. Because I actually want a Denmark where we live together, where it is not the case that you have residential areas where people live primarily with ethnic minority backgrounds, and other areas where Danes live primarily with Danish backgrounds. Actually, it's not the country I want. I want a country where we live together and where we have the same opportunities, and the large housing social areas do not reflect a Denmark with equal opportunities. I think that is the whole challenge, and that is why we have to say to each other that, of course, this is about crime and unemployment. But it is also about ethnicity, and I believe that if we do not want to develop like other countries where ethnic minorities, whether it is the first, second or third generation, I think it is actually subordinate, live for themselves in vulnerable residential areas, with all the other problems involved. So I actually think we need to take the debate on ethnicity as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134622	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper. Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134627	Thank you. I do not really want to spend so much time here at the beginning, but I just want to ask the Prime Minister a very simple and easy question, because I really just want the Prime Minister to be allowed to tell me a little about his policy. We have just heard in a discussion here about foreign policy in Denmark that the Prime Minister knew, before she became Prime Minister, that she should be on a parliamentary basis, where it can be said that strict foreign policy is not what is on the agenda. So I would just like to start by asking the very simple question why the Prime Minister, before the elections, was so opposed to giving more money to refugees and immigrants. Why don't they really need more money? Don't they need some high benefits? The PM didn't think they should. I'd like to know why they shouldn't really have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134721	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134723	It's nice just to be allowed to explain your own policy. I'm the PM's helper). Well, I'm glad somebody wants to be. Keep it that way, and let others be inspired by the same approach. I would like to say that this is a matter of principle to me. When you come to Denmark, you have to support yourself. You have to make an effort, and perhaps you have to do more than everyone else because you have achieved the privilege of coming to our fantastic country. Then, of course, we must do everything we can to be integrated; everything we can at all to get a job, learn the language and become part of our society. That is my basic position. I hope that will not surprise the questioner either. I'm a Social Democrat. We believe in right and duty, but in reverse order, first comes the duties and then the rights. It is a very, very great challenge for Denmark that so many people have come here who do not go to work. It is a problem for our economy, it is a problem for integration, and it is also a problem for the next generation that so many children grow up in a home where perhaps both mother and father, but in even more cases only mother, do not go to work. So that is my entirely fundamental position. Then there can be many stones on the road, including for people who come from outside, and there is, of course, a balance, also in relation to children who may be affected by their parents' situation. But basically, I would like to say here that some of the integration problems we face today are due to the fact that too many people have come here, who have received benefits from day one, and who have not become part of the Danish tradition that both mother and father go to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134909	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126134910	Thank you. I think I agreed with most of it and also with the background to it. Now, on Friday, the newspaper Information brought an article under the heading "New research: Making benefits for foreigners causes fewer refugees to apply to Denmark." The article comes on the basis of a report from postdoc Amalie Jensen from Princeton University in the United States, and she is quoted as saying: According to our studies, the level of public services seems to have an effect on where migrants choose to settle. We find that first the start-up aid and later the integration benefit has had an effect of up to approximately 5,000 people in reduced net immigration to Denmark in the years when the effect has reached its maximum. With what the Conservative People's Party helped to introduce, that is, start-up aid and integration service, which makes it less attractive to immigrate to Denmark, we avoided, in other words, approx. 5,000 refugees and immigrants who came here. Does the Prime Minister recognise the common sense in this and in the research that came out last week, where it is seen that the benefits to foreigners have had such a marked effect on how many people have come to Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135018	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135019	Yes, I recognise that there is a connection between the conditions that exist in a given country and how the flows of refugees move. I think that has been clear in Europe over recent years. It is no coincidence that some European countries receive more asylum seekers than others. And again, I think it is an emphasis on why we need a new asylum system and not just go on with the same rules. I do not think that the connection with the benefits can explain it alone, but since I myself was Minister of Justice, I was taught that there were laminate printed papers that were shared around the world, on which you could see the family reunification rules in Denmark. I think it might also be about access to citizenship or permanent residence. I dare not put my head on the block, which topics were there, but various points were mentioned, and I believe that services can play a role there too. So this shows something about the dilemma and, in my view, something about why we should not just abolish the system of benefits that existed before. On the other hand, I am also on the goal that there are some children who are now in Denmark and must have proper conditions to grow up under. I hope, then, that when I recognise the dilemma on one side, the questioner can also recognise that there is a dilemma with regard to children, which we should also ensure proper conditions for upbringing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135140	Then it's mr. Søren Pape Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135141	It is, of course, the case that the economy available as a family can be used in many ways. But it is the case that not everyone has the same value, and I fully acknowledge that. I am just interested that the Prime Minister explains this in his first reply, and I certainly believe that she was against raising the benefits for refugees and immigrants before the elections, and then subsequently in the answer to the question I have just asked, agrees that the research far along the way concludes that we will have more refugees and immigrants to Denmark when we raise the benefits or at least that it is important. Why is it then that the Prime Minister and her government have increased the benefits to unemployed immigrants by approx. 2,000 kroner. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135225	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135227	We're doing what we said before the election that we'd do. We haven't just raised the benefits. We are setting up a performance committee which will hopefully help the Danish Parliament to make long-term and wise decisions in the area of benefits. Until then, and we said this before the elections too, we will ensure that the families affected receive a helping hand. This also applies to ordinary Danish citizens who may have been affected by the benefits. I just think that it would help a lot in the discussion if everyone in this discussion would recognise the dilemmas, because it is clear that the question is: when you come to a country with high benefits, do some people choose to stay at home instead of going out to work? Yeah, I think there is. And this basic idea that you have to support yourself, and the idea of right and duty, we can't just expect people to come from outside. That is why, unfortunately, there is so much difference in the employment rate of different ethnic groups in Denmark. There is then just a dilemma on the other hand, because we have always been at least in modern Danish history that children do not have to pay a disproportionate price for their parents' situation. I do not think that any government has affected that balance. I hope this one can get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135339	Thanks to Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Uffe Elbæk, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135347	Thank you for that, President, and I have put on a very classic shirt today. First of all, I would like to say that it was really, really good to hear that the Prime Minister mentioned the UN report as a start. For there has been a deep, deeply serious announcement from the United Nations today and yesterday that we must actually be five times as ambitious in relation to our climate targets than is the case today globally, and if we do nothing today, we are heading towards a 4-percent increase in temperature. I mean, 1.5%. is already deep, deep, deeply serious, but 4%. is completely incalculable, and we have that knowledge. On the other hand, we see a paradox when we look out the windows and towards the coming Friday, which has been called Black Friday, where everyone goes shopping because it is cheap, there is a consumer party without just on Friday, and there has actually been that all week, and there is such a dilemma in it, I think. We know that we need to consume less, but in return we need to consume better, because we don't stop consuming, but we need to consume less, but better, and at the same time we have a consumption culture where we have such a buy and throw away approach, and people almost see it as a party that they have to go shopping on Friday. Of course it is nice to be able to buy good goods cheaply, but there is a paradox in that it goes in the opposite direction of what we should be doing. So I start off with such a slightly open, basically question of how the Prime Minister views the whole culture of consumption, which is, after all, married to the objectives we want to set ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135541	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135543	It has to be said that we are getting around in such an hour of questioning here, and I suppose this is also really calling for such a rather more thoughtful dialogue. I do not know whether I really want us to consume less, but it depends very much on whether we are able to produce in a sustainable way. I would very, very much hate to go in and start regulating whether you can go out and buy things on offer. I am a good offer to the Danes, and I also know people who are looking forward to the Black Friday, because it is there, the offer is on what they may not have been able to afford to buy during the year, and it may be that the queue has already started. So I think there are several aspects to this. Conversely, I would say that sometimes I have also tried to experience if something has broken and I have been good and have saved the receipt or guarantee certificate that it was just 8 days or 2 years, or whatever it is after the purchase had expired. It is, of course, an old discussion that we have also had in this Chamber and which I think we can go ahead with. But during the Danes I have to say, and during the Danes too up to Christmas, that you go out and buy the Christmas presents you want. I believe that what I want to use my energy for is to ensure that we can produce both at home and abroad, in a way that is more sustainable, where we use cleaner energy and, moreover, where we use the energy that is created when we produce in a better way than today. But Black Friday isn't exactly what I'm gonna settle down on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135727	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135728	I think that the Prime Minister is going to be quoted for that with a good offer, because a good political offer I think we are all under each other, and I think that a good political offer is that we do away with the culture of consumption. Again: I can also trouble the individual to get a product that is cheaper on Friday, but there is something in our entire consumption culture that I find problematic: buy and throw away. That is why we have also proposed various measures in a number of ways, so that we could perhaps promote a different way of using things, consuming them. For example, we have proposed the halving of VAT on repairs, so that instead of just throwing away and buying something new you actually make sure you repair your bike or repair your furniture. We have also proposed banning planned obsolescence, in other words banning the fact that products simply contain a limitation mechanism which makes it possible, for example, for products to be placed on the market. The washing machine breaks at a given time. Finally, we have proposed extending the entire guarantee system so that the product can last longer. What does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135838	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135840	I think that these are perfectly obvious things to talk about when we are going to start a climate action plan, and when it comes to recycling and that is to make things last longer, you are also talking right into my North Jutland heart. There is a recycling site right out here on Amager, where you can deliver in a corner of the recycling site the furniture and toys and whatever else you might have, which do not actually deserve to be thrown out, but which you cannot use yourself, and then others can come and pick it up. That's brilliant. I can look at the next generation... we have four teenagers at home... to recycle clothes... and even using them over a longer period of time... has got a whole different look than it had when I was the same age. All of that, I think, has a lot to do with food waste, the circular economy, all of that stuff, and I hope that can come in as part of the climate action plan, because there is no reason to throw things out if they can be used by others or maybe spend just a year more than what we would normally think.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135945	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126135947	It's nice and good bars, I think. A side discussion in this context is also that you create a labour market for some people who may be having difficulty getting jobs right now. So there is also something about how we are just getting some of our marginalised citizens into a labour market. Among other things, it could. be a consequence of everything we're talking about here. The last question comes from the Members of the Alternative. There is, of course, a tradition in which they ask the third question in this way. So we get around here in the debate because the questioner here and the Members are very concerned about the whole mass surveillance. How far can you go at all? Well, they have a huge critical approach to mass surveillance. You have asked this question: there has been a ruling by the European Court of Justice on the logging directive, which says that we simply must not make general and arbitrary logging of our telecommunications. We have not complied with this in Denmark, so the question is: why does the new government think that we should continue to monitor the Danes illegally?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140053	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140055	In other words, the discussion about monitoring, whether it takes place via camera or through logging, is a completely relevant discussion, and it is a discussion that I think we should take with each other soberly because, in my view, it has obvious advantages in terms of combating crime, preventing crime. The government also wants to continue working on this, for example. In relation to gang crime. But, of course, we must always do so with our eyes open, with regard to what kind of society it also helps to create. With logging, it is true that there is an EU track in which we are, of course, also looking down, because we have to comply with the rules that exist. But I would like to say that we must basically acknowledge that this is how I feel at least that our society has changed. If we look, for example... On the terrorist attack back in Copenhagen in 2015, surveillance actually played an important role in relation to police work. This is probably some of the things that have helped convince me that this is a road I think we should go, but we should do it thoughtfully.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140209	Thank you, sir. Uffe Elbæk. The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140218	Thank you for the floor. From one extreme to the other: In February 2018, the Prime Minister, as President of the Social Democratic Party, presented his ambition to abolish spontaneous asylum and introduce a new asylum system in Denmark. Several journalists asked about when and how, and then the answer from the current Prime Minister was that it could not be answered until you sat with the government and your hand on the pin. Tomorrow it will be 5 months since the Government of Mette Frederiksen presented itself to the Danes, and it therefore seems quite reasonable to me today to ask how and when we will have a new asylum system. I agree, as the Prime Minister himself says, that the current asylum system is inhumane. I also agree, as the Prime Minister said as far back as 2016, that politicians have been wrong about the immigration policy.Those were the words used by the Prime Minister when she called the integration policy mistaken on the same occasion. We therefore agree with the diagnosis: for decades politicians have been pursuing a misguided policy of aliens, which is inhumane to real war refugees and which is doing great damage to Danish society. In February 2018, the Prime Minister promised the Danes that, regardless of whether other countries would join, it was so important that Denmark must take the lead. Allow me to quote from the DR: The poem is to get more countries with, but I am ready to take the lead from the Danish side. We must do this because we can create a more humane refugee system that is better for our own society than what we have today. ▪ My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: does the government intend to keep the promise to the Danes to introduce in this parliamentary term a new asylum system in Denmark which excludes spontaneous asylum, although other countries choose the same solution at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140422	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140424	Thank you for the question and, above all, for the opportunity to discuss the asylum system. I actually believe that in many ways we share the analysis that the current refugee system is not working. I have not changed my mind about this because we have come into government. I think it is quite obvious, both with Danish glasses and with European glasses. I am also pleased that the questioner takes note of what I said at the time, namely that the aim is, of course, to bring in more countries, and that is the work we have started. I haven't said it's easy at any time. I have said that I think this is the right way to go. I still think so, but it would be very good if we could find allies in Europe who think it the same way, and that is what we are doing. There we work on several levels and in several tracks. On the one hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is involved in this, and on the other hand the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration are involved in the work of the two respective ministries. Then we are at official level both in relation to the new Commission and in relation to the UNHCR, and I myself am very involved in this issue. I was in Paris last week discussing this with President Macron. I had the opportunity to welcome the incoming President-in-Office of the Council, Charles Michel, to Denmark on Friday. This was one of the topics we spent the most time discussing. So in other words, we're on it. And we have to be, because this is a really, really important discussion. It is also a discussion that relates to some other things, and I believe that one of the first steps we can take in the European Union, which will be crucial, is to secure Europe's external borders better. After all, things are connected, and I am not sure that all EU countries will look at this in the same way as the Social Democracy or Government does. I'm pretty sure that won't be the case. However, we also have to go on some of the other agendas, and securing Europe's external border in a different and more significant way than today is, in my view, a decisive step in making a new asylum system actually work, but we are in the process.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140628	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140629	Now the question was whether, during this parliamentary term, the government intends to introduce a new asylum system which excludes spontaneous asylum, although other countries choose the same solution at the same time. But let me move on to Question No 2, because I do not suppose I will get an answer when I did not get it in the first place. The Prime Minister is probably aware that the Danes' confidence that the promises will be translated into action is shrinking over time, and there is no reason to invent the deep plate again. We have a system in the United Nations which controls the world's flows of refugees, and we can therefore support them even more, rather than embarking on a parallel system. Former Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs Inger Løbberg stated in May 2019 that "and I quote: an asylum stop is not contrary to Denmark's obligations in relation to the UN Refugee Convention. We also know that we have a legal relationship in the European Union, which means that we in Denmark have possessed and determine our own refugee and asylum policy. When that is the case, it must mean that we in Denmark can decide our own asylum policy, and that is why I have to ask: what is it that is preventing the government from launching the necessary legislative changes now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140741	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140743	But I share the view of the previous government that the protection afforded by the refugee convention is about our obligation to protect people on the run, not where we protect them. And the point is, in this whole discussion, that I think we will be able to create a more humane refugee system by helping more people in the neighbourhood, because we can simply help more people as well. It is really, really expensive to receive refugees here; it is really, really expensive to have the rejected asylum seekers, who are not only in Denmark but also in other countries. We could help more people for the same number of crowns and ears. So I actually share the opinion of the previous government on the matter. We have then considered that we would like to get on with this work and that the good way to do it, and one can then agree or disagree with it, is to seek as much influence at European level as possible and, above all, to make our influence felt in relation to a new Commission and thus new priorities in the cooperation that we have, also bilaterally with some of the countries. Then I believe that we have the opportunity to strengthen some of the infrastructure that needs to be in place, and that is what we are doing with our draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140858	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140900	I must say that I take the view that the Prime Minister and the government are making it harder for themselves than necessary. In other words, putting a stop to spontaneous asylum should not be so complicated when we have a reservation in the European Union and now we have a refugee convention which does not dictate that we grant refugees asylum in Denmark, but that we can help in the neighbourhood. I therefore have to ask: is the Prime Minister prepared to disappoint the Danes? If we do not put an end to spontaneous asylum during this period of government, that is, if we do not get through with it, and if we do not manage to deal with the other countries of the European Union that we would like to include, are we ready to do this? And can one reasonably say that the Prime Minister came to power on a little false assumptions, perhaps a little like Lars Løkke Rasmussen did when he went to the elections in 2015 on immediate slowing down?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140957	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126140959	I do not think we can talk about false assumptions at all. And we're working on it. I could understand the question if we had not done anything here for the first five months. But we do. We're in full swing. And it is clear that creating alliances at European level, but also European-level responsiveness, is not something you just do overnight, and I have never said so. I believe that one of the most widely used sentences I have used over the past many years is to be honest about what is difficult. And, of course, the area of asylum is difficult, otherwise the previous government would have solved the problem. The previous government did not solve the problem. Nor did the previous government solve the problem, along with its parliamentary basis, because it is complicated. But you first have to have a direction before you can create the results. And I'm hoping that we can get on with this lead. If I am then specifically asked whether we can simply abolish the right to asylum here, I would say that I know that we will only be able to do so in a situation where we are quite sure that we can guarantee the protection of the individual refugee somewhere else, and we do not have that security when there is no construction yet. Hopefully there will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141110	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141120	Thank you for the floor. A few months ago, the finance minister drew a somewhat gloomy picture of Danish economy and said that there were dark clouds over Danish economy with reference to brexit and dwindling international economic conditions. In addition, considerable bottleneck problems can also be added to the Danish labour market. The Director of the National Bank also followed suit and said that there was indeed a significant risk that the Danish economy would be in recession within the next few years. From this point of view, it may well be surprising that the government has not been able to do as much as the slightest hints at suggesting the bitterness of having ambitions to increase economic growth noticeably, low reforms that ensure that more people get to work and that it is better to work. On the contrary, it is moving a little in the other direction, because a long offensive has almost begun against the working production Denmark, against concrete Denmark, where it is said that now we triple the inheritance tax, we triple the reduction requirement for Danish agriculture so slightly out of the blue and as a thief at night. Thank you very much for the good jobs and good export solutions on the part of the red majority, higher benefits for those who do nothing, higher taxes for those who do something, and a trade minister who spends most of his time keeping his officials busy making rules and bureaucracy instead of keeping the wheels running in Danish economy. There I am rather missing the Socialist politicians who have been there over time and who have said that good times must be made better and that good times should not be made shorter. There are, of course, many ways of increasing growth and employment, I recognise that. One of them is lower taxes, that you give the Danes a Black Friday offer, as it were. That is why the question is: does the government recognise that there is, in fact, still a great potential for tax reforms that can make us richer, can help to safeguard the welfare state and public spending in the future, and would it not be precisely a matter of due diligence when there are the gloomy prospects presented by the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141321	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141322	At least the questioner said one thing right. It is possible that there were also several right elements, but I was at least aware of one thing I agree with, namely that there are many ways to make good times better and that there are many ways to promote growth. That is, of course, the crucial discussion. A thought experiment, and it's counter-productive history writing, and you have to be careful about that, but if you just imagine that Denmark hadn't become the leader on wind energy, if not people before us here and not least out in the Danish business community and in the research had said that we would be one of the best on wind energy, what did the Danish economy look like? The interesting thing when you look at the Danish economy now is that our neighbouring countries' economy is doing worse than the Danish economy, and one of the reasons why Denmark is doing well is because of wind. It is also because of life sciences and other things that we are skilled at, but part of the Danish success today has happened on the basis of the decisions that have at one time been made about research, about business policy and about education. The best thing we can do now is to ensure a strong foundation for Denmark in the future too, and in my view it is primarily based on spending more money on research, so that we find the new solutions and the new technology, make sure that our children and young people get better in their way, get a better educational foundation to stand on. The previous government, including the author's own party, has, of course, cut down significantly on education, and I think this has been a wrong decision and a wrong way of running the Danish economy, but we are in the process of doing away with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141456	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141458	I would very much like to have a discussion on whether the pso tax ended up costing more jobs than it has created, because we can easily make some calculations on that, and I will correct those calculations. I have to interpret the answer to the question as a 'no' and that this government, in fact, as one of the only socialist governments in recent times, apart from Anker Jørgensen, has no ambition to make tax reforms. That's how I hear the answer. I think there is a terrible tendency for the Prime Minister to forget that the Prime Minister is no longer a leader of the opposition, because one thing is that when you are in opposition you can say that there is no need for reforms and that we just need to increase public spending, but when you get into government, there must be a different sense of responsibility. One of the things that could be addressed is the history that was also in Berlingske yesterday, which stated that the largest group of top tax payers are skilled and unskilled, i.e. those you would say are real workers in the social democratic sense, thousands of educators, sosu assistants, craftsmen and blacksmiths and electricians, etc. You are in favour of not having an impossible opposition, so is it not in exploiting it and so saying that the group of people, the skilled and the unskilled, are raising the top tax limit, because it is a healthy working policy that they can work an extra hour or two without being ripped off by the sharp claw of the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141610	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141611	Basically, I do not share the great enthusiasm of the questioner for top tax relief, and I have not actually done so at any time. On the other hand, I am very, very concerned about how we conduct an economic policy that makes Denmark also stand strong in the years to come, and it is a matter for me to see about reforms, but with all due respect some reforms that point more forward. One could call it reforms 2.0, namely those about productivity, those about education, those about our ability to develop the new answers to, for example. the green transition, which allows Denmark to continue to have high employment. That is, in my view, one of the things that Danish economy needs. When it comes to promoting employment, I would like to take part in discussions on it, which are also included in our understanding paper and one of the groups I would like to point out here is among other things. some of those who are outside the labour market today, and which I think we need to ensure a way into our labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141714	Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141715	I am convinced that we can agree that there are productivity challenges in Danish society, especially in the public sector. I hope that is also one of the areas that the government will be looking at during the parliamentary term, and tax reforms can also help solve productivity challenges. In other words, if corporate tax is made easier, new capital and new employees will be invested to increase productivity, and this increases wages, so this is an example of how reforms that the Prime Minister has been involved in in the past can be made, both on top tax and corporation tax, which helps to increase productivity and which also helps people put some extra hours into the labour market. I just think it would be a shame if this government were to be led by a Social Democratic party which, as such, forgets its own history. Because you have a rich history of making reforms, including tax reforms. So, Jens Otto Krag went to the polls on what I even think Viggo Kampmann did top tax relief, which was Nyrup and Lykketoft and, of course, also the government of which the Prime Minister himself was a part. And the question is this: would you rather just be inspired by Anker Jørgensen and say that we should not think about ensuring the future of the Danish economy and creating massive growth, or would you be inspired by the many social democratic government leaders who have helped to make tax reforms over the ages? Or are you just gonna put it all away?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141825	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141827	But it is of course interesting to look at what kind of policy was pursued in recent years. Well, there we had a bourgeois government that started cutting down on green research. After all, no one could see the idea other than the government itself, all the time that one of the reasons why Denmark is doing well today is that we are in the front of the green. There have then been, I think, some boring trends that have relaxed the green ambitions. Now we are on our way up again, but one of the reasons why we have high employment today is that we are both innovative, strong on research, relatively highly educated and at the same time capable of producing. And that inequality is so low in Denmark that we can work together in the workplace. So one of the reasons why we are very much in favour of the President of the Liberal Alliance is because Denmark is very much inspired by social democratic principles.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141921	Thank you to the authors, and thank you to the Prime Minister. This is the end of Question Time. In a few moments we will have to start a series of votes, but first there are some reviews.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126141935	Today there are the following reviews: Mona Juul (KF) and Kathrine Ollldag (RV) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 41 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better opportunities for municipalities to set up housing for socially disadvantaged people). Zenia Stampe (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 42 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution prohibiting the use of glyphate on private land and public land). Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 43 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of experiments on a citizen's right to vote in Denmark). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142006	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142046	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 19 of Kasper Sand Kjær (S), Mads Birded (V), Katrine Robsøe (RV), Astrid Carøe (SF), Mai Villadsen (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Uffe Elbæk (ALT) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 92 (S, V, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA) voted against 12 (DF and NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 19 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 18 by Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Peter Seier Christensen (NB) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142155	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142239	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142246	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142325	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142331	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 105 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142409	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 104 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT and LA), against 2 (NB), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142443	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142448	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 100 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, KF, ALT, NB and LA), against 8 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142525	This election is without debate. A unanimous committee has recommended that district judge Dr. Jur. Niels Fenger will be elected Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament from 26 November 2019. No other proposals have been made. The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 106 (S, V, DF, RV, SF, EL, KF, ALT, NB and LA) voted against 0, abstentions 0. Judge Dr. Jur. Niels Fenger is then elected Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. There are no more votes, so those who have other tasks than being in the Chamber can now quietly leave it so that we can continue with the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142713	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142719	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142745	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142751	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142821	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142850	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142855	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, adopted by the committee, on Amendments Nos 1 to 9. 12 outside the report by the Minister for Health and the Elderly or on Amendment No 12. 10 and 11 members of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142927	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142952	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126142959	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143028	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143054	The debate is open. Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143108	Thank you very much for the floor, sir. President. Bill No. 55 on the amendment of the Act on the election of the Folketing and the election of Danish Members to the European Parliament must introduce a new procedure for the collection of electoral declarations for the notification of new parties running for the parliamentary elections and the European Parliament elections. In 2018, the former Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs and the current Ministry of Social Affairs and Home Affairs found that electoral declarations were collected using the digital solution, simply not following the procedure for which it was intended and which was a prerequisite for legislation. The then government entered into an agreement in March 2019 with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative that a new procedure should be started for collecting electoral declarations for the purposes of the specific notification of new parties that stood for the European Parliament and the Folketing respectively. The parties to the agreement agreed that the procedure for the collection should be changed so that the procedure could no longer be circumvented in breach of the rules, and the parties to the agreement also stressed that the procedure for collecting electoral declarations would be more user-friendly, both for the electorate and for the parties. Since we live in a digital age and must constantly focus on making things easier, while, of course, we must also ensure that the law and its intentions are respected, we must have a reflection of it. The bill, which is the implementation of the political agreement, will create the necessary legal basis so that we can actually get ashore to create this new portal that gives the voters this digital opportunity. It is therefore a very good proposal, and the Social Democrats therefore support the continuation of the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143320	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143335	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. With the bill that we are discussing here today, we will implement a political agreement back from 22 March 2019 on a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations to be used for the notification of parties wishing to stand for parliamentary elections and European Parliament elections. It is an agreement that was made between all the parties of the Folketing at the time. The draft law proposes a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations for new parties. The new procedure will include all those who wish to stand for parliamentary elections and, for that matter, also for European elections. And unfortunately we have recently seen examples of irregularities which have made this amendment of the law strictly necessary, so a change in the law will ensure that the words of the law are followed in practice in future. And I also hope and believe that there will be broad agreement on this when we have to take a position on this bill. The bill introduces a new portal solution for collecting electoral declarations for both voters and parties. Overall, the solution is estimated to be an administrative relief for both voters and parties, and we can only welcome that. It must be convenient to engage in democracy, but, of course, the rules must also be observed. With this bill, we ensure that new parties compete on equal terms. I am going to ask some questions in the committee itself about some things that we in the Left need to get under control. Among other things: I am probably going to ask some questions about the timetable itself, i.e. when, frankly, you expect to be able to launch this new portal solution. But we can get back to that between first and second readings. In any case, I can conclude by saying that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143538	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143547	Thank you. After all, the whole debate on electoral declarations came up earlier this year when it turned out that several new parties did not follow the guidelines for collecting declarations and that there was no legal basis for stopping it or punishing it. Against this background, a comprehensive Parliament concluded an agreement on a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations. The first part of the agreement was adopted in this Chamber back in August, when it was decided that different sanctions could be imposed if the rules were not followed. Now comes the next component, which is about a new procedure and a new digital portal system for electoral declarations for the notification of new parties wishing to stand for parliamentary elections and European elections. It is only about the procedure that is changing in this context, not about the rules on authorisation and the rules on how many declarations need to be assembled to be approved to run. A detail of the legal notes is a discussion that, according to the Data Protection Regulation, information on the political convictions of specific persons may not be processed or made public. It is also generally a very appropriate rule, but fortunately it is possible to identify in this case who is responsible for each party, and a certain amount of political sympathy must be expected for the party for which you are responsible. But, of course, it must be publicly known who is responsible for a given party who is seeking to be appointed to the Folketing or to the European Parliament. We in the Danish People's Party welcome the fact that the bill emphasises that the availability of the new digital solution is ensured in the context of development, and we also think it is good that it is possible to make electoral declarations on paper for those who are already exempt from mandatory registration for digital mail. In the consultation responses, a number of risks related to data security and anonymity in the system are problematical. The Ministry's response is generally accommodating to address any problems, but as this is a very important element of the new system, we in the Danish People's Party in the committee procedure would have liked to elaborate on the answers to the questions that have been raised in connection with the consultation process. However, with the expectation of good in-depth answers, we in the Danish People's Party expect to be able to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next Kathrine Ollldag, Radical, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143807	Thank you so much. In the Radical Left, we welcome this proposal, which is, of course, the implementation of an agreement we made together in the spring. We very much welcome the fact that it is now easier for citizens to deliver electoral declarations in a flexible way, which is similar to the way in which they communicate with the public. So, yes, thank you and gladly more of that. It's all really good. But we also know sometimes how IT systems, and perhaps in a public context in particular, tend to behave, so we also welcome the fact that an evaluation has already been made and, like the rapporteur from the Left, we are also keen to see the timetable. But we need to talk more about all this when we hit committee work. Finally, I would just like to say that one of the things that, of course, pleases us very much is what is already in the draft law that was put forward at the very beginning of this period, namely L 1, where we were just talking about sanctions in relation to some of the cheating we had experienced during the election campaign with certain parties who tried to get in a rather too creative way. It has already been incorporated into this proposal, which continues the good cadence by promoting both flexibility and flexibility for the citizen, but also curbs those who are a little too creative. So all in all, we in the Radical Left are very much in favour of this proposal and look forward to the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143940	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126143949	Thank you. The purpose of L 55 is to introduce a new procedure for the collection of electoral declarations for the notification of new parties wishing to stand for parliamentary and European elections. So this is also part of the coining of an earlier proposal. The SF will vote in favour of the proposal as it forms part of the political agreement aimed at ensuring the legal collection of electoral declarations, in which the rules governing inter alia: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Then I should send a greeting from the Enhedslisten and say that they are also in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144034	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144054	Thank you, President. Bill L 55 is, after all, the implementation of the political agreement of March 2019, which we already launched with the former Minister of the Interior, and what we are getting here is that we get that 7 days of thoughtfulness, which there were some who were clever enough to dribble around in the previous electoral declarations. We're done with that now. An independent portal is being created. What is going to be exciting in the bill here is that, as the text in the second last paragraph says, when the new digital solution is ready for commissioning. It's always exciting when it's new portals and IT solutions you have to start with, i.e. when they're ready, and I hope that we can succeed in getting it through here for the first time, so that we get this in place fairly quickly. Because it is very, very important, even for our democracy, that we have parties approved for deployment without the use of cheating. So the Conservative People's Party says yes to L 55.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144221	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144227	Thank you, President. This bill makes it easier and more flexible to deliver electoral declarations, and then it ensures that the rules that the citizen must confirm his or her statement after 7 days cannot be bypassed. So it makes it both more flexible and safer, and in the alternative we really like it when it comes to collecting electoral declarations, which are the basis for building parties that have to build on democracy in Denmark. So we are delighted to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144257	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144302	Thank you, President. This bill is, of course, a matter of administratively facilitating this collection of electoral declarations, and of course we can support that. However, in the committee's examination of this, I would like answers to a number of questions relating, among others, to: this with what focus you want on it, when you move from the old system to the new one, because there have also been some problems with the old one, and that when you switch to a new one, you make sure that there are not some of the mistakes and shortcomings here too. But we will take that in committee, and New Citizens will support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144343	Thank you. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144351	We are dealing here with a bill that will strike two flies with one stone, so both make it easier to report a new party and collect signatures for the party in order to be allowed to run, but also prevent cheating in the way we have seen it in the past, with the period of reflection that the law requires a party to have. Unfortunately, some of those who set up new parties are some erratic types of parties. Many of us know about this from real life and therefore it should not be possible for them to cheat on top of all their other incalculability, and therefore this is a very important bill. We shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144435	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144447	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the draft law and for an incredibly good, precise and constructive debate here today. In Parliament's summer holiday, as you know, I tabled the first of two legislative proposals on the electoral declaration system, in which, as something new, we introduced sanctions for the illegal collection of electoral declarations. With that bill, we put an end to the practice whereby new parties could take a shortcut to the ballot paper, and here today we are dealing first with the last of two legislative proposals on the electoral declaration system. The bill here implements the political agreement of spring on a new procedure for collecting electoral declarations. This was the broadest possible political agreement, as it was concluded by all the political parties in the Folketing at that time. Together, the two legislative proposals will create a very robust framework for our future electoral declaration systems. Once we have the law in place, we need only the technique, and I can say that my ministry is already well in the process of preparing for the new electoral declaration portal. That is why we are very happy to respond to further committee questions on this. On the left's question, I can answer here from the platform that the time perspective is in 2020 and very much before the summer break. I would also just like to acknowledge the remark made by the Danish People's Party that it seems that we have actually been adjusted in the legislative proposal following the objections raised by the Data Protection Agency, but I would be happy to clarify this in the committee procedure, and of course I would be happy to reply to the questions that may come from New Citizens about the transition from the old system to the new one. So, all in all, thank you for an incredibly good first reading. I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144630	There's a question. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144633	Perhaps I can now start by asking a question in this Chamber, and then I can follow up on some written questions later. Thank you for confirming that it is in 2020 that this is going to work. Could the Minister perhaps lift the veil a little bit more about how far you are? Because there are times when these dear IT systems don't always work from day one. Then maybe the minister could put a little more words on whether you have chosen, who should deliver the portal or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144710	Well, without in any way claiming that I am an IT specialist, I would like to try to answer as well as I can from the platform, and then we can follow up on the committee procedure. It is the current supplier who wants to develop the system here, and it also means that, in parallel with the preparatory work, the Ministry has had a pre-analysis carried out in relation to the future system, so we are sure that law and system will be linked. In any case, this will bring us some distance from the possible problems raised by the rapporteur. Then it is clear that the technical details we have kept ourselves from describing in the draft law so that we can have it laid down in a notice so that we are sure that things are consistent and that it is not some form of wording in the draft law that ends up holding back some kind of technical design of the system. So smart of harm, we've tried to make this process as flexible as possible, and we're, like, doing it now, so there's not a very long way to go after the bill is in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144817	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144819	Thank you. So far, it seems to me that there is optimism and that we believe in it. However, I would also like to say that it is clear that this is something that we are going to follow closely, i.e. when we have it completely in place. Because that is something that we all, hopefully, in this Chamber, think is extremely important so that the same thing does not happen that we have seen, that is that there are some people who can somehow bypass the rules. But thank you for your answer so far, and I will ask you some written questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144855	Thank you. Burnt child shudders the fire, they say here in relation to the public and IT systems. So, of course, I can understand the interest in it. As far as circumvention is concerned, I think it is important to make it clear that, regardless of what system we have, we have closed the possibility of doing so with the legislative proposal we adopted, which allows sanctions to be imposed if the rules are circumvented. Because it is generic, as is stated in this kind of legal language, and that means that it is a sanction that applies to all kinds of cheating in all systems. So it can be said that even if this is delayed, which there is no indication, and which we do not hope for, we have actually, as a responsible Parliament, ensured that no one can cheat, regardless of which system we could then run with.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126144935	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145000	The first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145011	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 56 is the execution of the agreement between the then government, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, and the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF, and it is a coinage of the bet pool for 2019-22 in the children's and social field. The aim is simply to ensure the legal position of citizens and their relatives when an agreement is reached on the transfer of the employer's function to private companies and associations in aid schemes in connection with the cash subsidy for the recruitment of helpers, the citizen-controlled personal assistance, what is termed BPA in a customary everyday language. There are four different main elements, and I'll try to see if I can dive into them briefly. It is proposed in the Services Act that, in relation to the agreement on the transfer of a subsidy to the aid scheme concluded between a citizen or a related and an association or a private company, it is not binding on the citizen or the related person if the association or the private undertaking was not approved by the Social Inspectorate at the time. It is therefore ensured that there is a margin so that, if the agreement has been concluded, you can get out of it again if the association or the private company was not approved at the time when it was agreed with the citizen or the neighbouring person or when you were not aware of the lack of approval. In other words, there is a double confection to ensure that the agreement that has been concluded will always be able to be withdrawn if the association or private company concerned has not been approved. It is also proposed that the Services Act should specify that the municipal council may pay the subsidy only if it has been approved by the Social Inspectorate, i.e. another guarantee that the money will be kept straight to where the money is going. The third is, and we think it is also relevant, that it is actually proposed that it be included that the Social Protection Agency inform the municipality of this should an approval of an association or a private company cease. In this way, it is ensured that if there is a single company or a private association that does not meet the conditions, the citizen can get out of it again and that there is an obligation to inform. Finally, it is proposed that the Social Protection Agency publish that list so that it is up to date with what it is for associations and private companies. This keeps ensuring that they have aid schemes. It is important that the inventory is kept up to date on a regular basis, because this ensures the best possible security for citizens. This is an important area and is something that provides a high quality for the people it directly affects. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party can also support the further treatment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145327	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145338	Thank you for that, President. I want to start by saying that the Left is backing this bill, L 56, up. It is also in the light of the fact that it is the implementation of an agreement concluded by the previous government. I am not going to repeat what the proposal is about, but simply to state that these are some very fine proposals. In the Left, we are pleased that there will be more transparency in relation to which associations and private companies can be approved by the Social Inspectorate to carry out these work functions. It provides greater security for the citizens, and it provides greater security for the close relative. Then we are also satisfied that, in future, citizens and close relatives will not be bound financially if they enter into an agreement with an association or company that is not approved. We have taken note of the consultation responses and of the comments made by the KL in relation to this, and this has also led to additions to the notification of all municipalities in the event of termination of approval, which must of course be coordinated through the five supervisions that we have. So in the Left we support the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145447	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145502	Thank you, President. This is a small but very important bill. It stems from the agreement on the payment of the rate pool from 2019 to 2022 and concerns the strengthening of citizens' legal certainty in relation to the Services Act's assistance scheme. It is the case today that, as a rule, it is the citizen who is granted an aid scheme, regardless of whether it is Article 95 or Article 96. Whether it is a cash grant for the recruitment of a helper or a civilised personal assistance scheme, it is the citizen who is responsible for the employer. It is then possible, in accordance with the rules in force, to transfer the subsidy and the employer's function to a close relative or an association or a private enterprise. For associations and private companies, they must be approved by the Social Inspectorate in order to be able to perform the employer's function in the scheme. If they are not approved, the municipal council may not pay the grant and, as it is today, the individual citizen shall be liable financially for the contract concluded with the association or the private undertaking. This is where this proposal comes in, because once we have adopted it, a given agreement will not be binding on the citizen if the association or the private company is not approved by the Social Protection Agency. At the same time, the Social Protection Agency is obliged to establish and keep up to date a publicly available list of approved associations and private companies. That is very good, because it provides greater security for the citizen in those situations. So, as I said, this is a small but important proposal which the Danish People's Party fully supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145622	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, the Radicals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145635	Thank you. The Radical Left, like the previous speakers, can endorse this proposal. We are part of the settlement from the 2019-2022 rate pool, and we are therefore already in the birth behind this proposal. We want to ensure that the citizens who have entrusted an employer's function to someone who was not approved still have their legal certainty in place. Like previous speakers, I think that this is an important and fine proposal, and we radically support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145703	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145713	Thank you. The aid schemes under Article 95 and Article 96, the so-called BPA schemes, have over time been a success for a great many citizens with disabilities because it has meant more freedom and self-determination in their daily lives. To quote the director of LOBPA, Steen Pihl Sørensen, the scheme is designed to enable the individual citizen to live an independent life, for example with work or training. In spite of this, however, we are seeing these years that the BPA system is under pressure and more and more citizens are being cut back on their help or refused. The amount which many municipalities allocate to the administration of the schemes is also under pressure, resulting in further haunting of the industry by less good management companies. That is why we in the SF are pleased that the legal position of citizens is now being strengthened with this proposal, so that users are not stuck with agreements with companies not approved by the Social Protection Agency. For this reason, the SF can of course vote in favour of the proposal and expects the Minister to clarify in the guidance the questions raised by KL in their response to the consultation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126145837	Thank you. The draft law here provides for an improvement in the legal position of citizens with disabilities and their relatives when they enter into an agreement to transfer employer functions to private companies or associations under aid schemes, both under Articles 95 and 96 of the Services Act. I think it must seem quite unreasonable to anyone that citizens who have been granted subsidies for the recruitment of a helper may find themselves in a situation where they themselves will be liable for the costs if, in ignorance, they enter into an agreement to transfer the subsidy of employer responsibility to an association or company which does not appear to have been approved by the Social Protection Agency and which is therefore not allowed by the municipality to pay subsidies. This is an unfair legal situation which must be rectified as soon as possible, as is also proposed in this proposal. I think it is quite obvious that in future an agreement should not be binding if the association or company concerned is not approved; it almost gives itself when you cannot receive the grant from the municipality. In fact, I also think it is so obvious that we should perhaps have followed KL's recommendations in their response to the hearing so that we do not make it a condition that it is only if the company in question has not made the citizen aware that this was the case. And when I think so, it is because the citizens we are talking about here can of course be citizens who, precisely because of their disability, can get into trouble because they have not actually understood the expression that has come from the company or association in question. Now we are not taking part in the conciliation, so I will therefore refrain from tabling amendments to the proposal. I think it is an excellent proposal, but if, in the further work of the committee, there were to be a common view that one could actually respond to that part of the KL's consultation answer, then I would think it would be sensible to help protect the legal position of the citizens a little more. So I would actually recommend that, but, as I said, I would appeal to those who have now made the compromise to consider whether they should make such a change. I would be very pleased with that. But the Enhedslisten can support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150113	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150121	Thank you. The bill here is a payout of the bet pool for 2019-2022 in the child and social field, of which Conservatives are part. We therefore support the draft law, which helps to safeguard the legal position of citizens and their neighbours when they enter into an agreement on the transfer of employer functions to associations or private companies in relief schemes under the Services Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150157	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150212	Thank you. In the alternative, we think it is very good that citizens can get out of the contract with private companies or the like or associations if it turns out that the organisations concerned have not been approved by the Social Protection Agency. It's kind of the most important thing for us in this bill. We are also in favour of the rest, for example. a list of the organisations approved so that you can see who has been approved by the Social Inspectorate. So that's going to be a yes from the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150240	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150253	In addition to the fact that I am going to ask some questions in committee about this bill too, New Citizens can easily support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150309	Thank you. I was just wondering if I could sit down before the rapporteur was finished, but that went just fine. So here it is, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150319	Thank you. I can recommend that the President remain standing because the BPA system is a very good one, and many disabled people benefit from it. There have been some problems with the administration of the system and we have now managed to overcome these problems by means of a broad agreement. That is, of course, very positive. So it's a good cooperation we have here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150341	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150351	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much to the rapporteurs. I would just like to briefly acknowledge both the reception and the good debate. After all, it is not secret from anyone in this Chamber, and Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned that here with this bill we are implementing part of the agreement on the rate pool for 2019-2022 in the child and social field, and that the aim is to strengthen legal certainty for those who conclude agreements on the transfer of employer responsibility to associations and private companies in aid schemes. We hope from the government and that is what has been the aim both of the bill and of the agreement to ensure greater security in the aid arrangements, which is the framework for a good and stable everyday life for people with severe functional impairments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150446	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150501	The debate is open. The first to speak is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150520	Thank you. Then we are in the process of another legislative proposal, which is the implementation of the initiatives that have been taken in relation to the partial agreement on the payment of the rate pool. There should be no doubt that it is central to the social democracy that we are constantly working to ensure that children and young people have a better everyday life, even when they are placed outside the home, and that we ensure the dialogue that exists with parents across the country, regardless of what it is for a family in which the child is raised and which has an impact on the skilled work that is in relation to a child. The draft law contains a number of different amendments, each of which is a small step towards improving conditions. This is among other things. The aim is to support the calm and stability that children and young people should experience when placed outside the home. The bill contains a number of main elements, and I will try to sketch some of them up here. Among other things, it restricts the right of the custody holder to have requests for return dealt with time and time again in cases. When we in the Social Democratic Party support this, it is a matter of creating a great deal of uncertainty for the children that they go back and forth into a limbo when they are asked by the parents to consider whether they should be taken home. At the same time, it is a question of implementing decisions on a change of location without consent, which means that here too we attach importance to what the children and young people themselves say. It is also important that, for reasons of legal certainty, the Ankestyrelsen be given the opportunity to decide on association in cases involving children placed in care. One of the things that is also central to us is that we should also introduce here requirements for the use of authorised psychologists in the investigations of the custody holder. In other words, all in all we are looking at a wide range of measures, each of which means a small step for the children to get a better starting point. It is also important to say that placements should take place in dialogue, so as to ensure that the parents have an understanding of why the placement takes place and to ensure that they are made in relation to future placements. With those words, I would say that the Social Democrats support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150816	There are questions. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150821	Thank you. It is true, as the Social Democratic rapporteur says, that there are some good elements in the bill, but if we read the consultation answers, we read, among other things, that the National Association of Nursing Families, the Terms of Use, the Danish Handicap Federation and the Danish Psychologist Association criticize the municipalities for suddenly moving the children because of e.g. conflicts with the foster family or financial considerations. The National Association of Nursing Families and the Terms of Use note that if a new legal basis is to be introduced, there should be an independent body to approve enforcement in order to ensure the child's best interests. That then means, in relation to what is involved in the forced part, that you can force a child to move from one location to another. That's what you want to do. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur has read the consultation responses that have been and the concerns that are also in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150913	In any case, it is absolutely certain that it is important and essential to take a position on the diversity that exists and that we constantly ensure that these experiences are taken into account in the best possible way. I think there is a very good discussion in committee, and perhaps we should also ask for a kick-in from those concerned in connection with the work of the committee, so that we hear in person what they are going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150949	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126150950	I understand that the Socialist rapporteur is willing to listen to the concerns of all the consultation answers we have, precisely in relation to the forced part. The Council of Social Vulnerable, KFUM's Social Work, Heart Silence • Stop Violence against Children, and the Danish Handicap Federation can among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And then, of course, we know that there have been illegal acts in relation to these cases where children have been forced to move from their place of residence, where they would actually have liked to have been, but against their will they have been forcibly relocated, and the police have still been involved in this. So I am glad that the rapporteur is willing to take a close look at this in order to see if we can respond to some of the consultations that have taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151039	When you have several treatments after each other, and this is the first reading, and when you also have discussions in a committee, it is, of course, about getting the various players into play, so that you actually listen to those for whom we are making the laws. For the Social Democratic Party, it is really, really important that we ensure that children thrive the best possible way, which is why it is also important that the experience that exists is taken into account at the same time. It has never been the case that we have not been able to listen between the readings, and that is why we have the committee procedure so that we may have some adjustments. I very much appreciate Karina Adsbøl's very great commitment, and I am also looking forward to the committee reading with her, so we will have this discussed very well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151125	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151133	Thank you for the floor. This is the first time I have been on the platform, and I am grateful that my first legislative proposal deals with this very subject, because there is no doubt that vulnerable children and young people are very close to my heart. As rapporteur for family and well-being, my core task is to help ensure a better environment for vulnerable children and young people to have a more secure and stable upbringing. In many ways, growing up is a breeding ground for our entire society. If growing up problems develop, it can, at worst, result in adult citizens who are outside the community both economically and socially. Last year, the Left managed to reach a broad agreement on the children's and social pool for 2019-2021... an agreement that I am proud of on behalf of my party. The proposal translates initiatives from the rate pool, such as: contribute to the calm and stability of children and young people in care and, as far as possible, to the protection of baseless retreatments of the placement case. A number of municipalities have unfortunately experienced child cases in which the custody holder requests the return of the child as soon as the placement proceedings have been completed. This means that cases are constantly being treated for unnecessary and severe strain on the child. I am therefore pleased that the proposal gives the municipality the opportunity in practice to refuse to deal with requests from the custody holder for the return of children and young people when conditions have not changed significantly. Finally, it is gratifying that the legal certainty of parents has also been included in the legislative proposal. It is proposed to introduce a requirement that a recommendation from the municipality for placement without consent should include a separate assessment of the parental authority holder's competences in terms of caring for the child and addressing the child's particular needs. This should promote the legal certainty of parents in placement cases. It is important that we have both aspects, because the area is somewhat complex. The cases are very different, and it is important that there is more quality in the procedure and that there is a strengthening of the information base. The Left can support the proposal as it has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151351	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151400	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur, who is willing to look this through again. As rapporteur in this area, I have tried to make representations to the Ministry to express my concerns in relation to the hearings that are also available. After all, the bill contains several elements, and there are some that are good and others that are less good. When we were sitting around the table at the time, the intention was precisely to ensure continuity, improvements, help and support for families and children in the field of housing, and there I have to say that after I have read the consultation answers, which so much share the water, I am genuinely concerned that this is not what is happening with this bill. And I've also informed the Ministry about that. DF tabled a motion for a resolution in the last session to the effect that children placed in care should not, of course, be set off against their allowance because they should contribute to the payment of their accommodation. In the past, there was a separate legislative proposal which followed up on our resolution, but now it has been included in this legislative proposal, and I have to say that we want to divide it up. I am surprised that we have had a separate bill in the past and that you choose to put it into this bill. And then I do not recognise the premise that, although an agreement has been reached in this area, one cannot be willing to look at the consultation answers that are available as well. One is that an agreement has been made; another is that this is some of the parts of the agreement that we made at the time that are being implemented. However, as a politician, we must also reflect and look at the consultation answers that are coming, and that is why I would urge the Minister to call back the parties behind the agreement. So far, the Ministry has not responded to this, but I think it is important that we ask ourselves whether it is Clean cut is a word known to those who work in this area, that is to say, to the sudden removal of a child. And it may also be necessary if the child is in danger, but I find that it also happens repeatedly in cases where the child or young person is not in danger. We have seen repeated broadcasts about it, and I just have to say that the last thing we had consulted on was Andreas from Guldborgsund, who wanted to stay with his foster family, his biological father wanted him to stay with his foster family, but the municipality wanted Andreas removed from his foster family, and if it had not been in the media, I do not know how it would have ended. Then, if we approve this bill, you could have removed Andreas with the police and everything, that is, if you put this in place. So I just think that, as politicians, we have a responsibility to see whether it is the right legislative proposal that lies here or there is something else we can do. In addition, I have also spoken in the past in relation to the questions I have asked and in relation to the consultation answers that are available. Many of the stakeholders who work in this area do not have any joy in their consultation response, but are also deeply concerned. So I am thinking that we should also consider whether it is not an independent body that has to take into account the decision to enforce decisions on the change of location without consent. For example, the municipality could propose to the Family Court House, or even family law, to deal with a case for the enforcement of a decision to change the location without consent. The decision of the Family Court House must continue to be open to appeal to the Ankestyrelsen, and a decision of the family court must be open to appeal to the Land Court. It is therefore important, when we see these cases, that there is legal certainty with them. So we had some good intentions when we were sitting around the table, namely that we wanted to ensure the legal certainty of parents, we wanted to ensure children, and we wanted to ensure better quality in these matters, but I just have to say that what is just on the table here has aroused my concern, and I hope that we can take it up together in committee and simply ask some clarification or meet in the circle of agreements so that we can find out whether this is the way we want to go here from the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151823	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151840	Thank you. Well, here we have another proposal that translates into a wage-pool agreement that we have previously concluded. Here we are looking at the framework for children placed outside the home, and that is a serious matter. We give, among other things. legal basis for the municipalities to refuse to deal with a request from the parents for return if there has been no significant change at home. This is far-reaching, but we are doing so because we have seen examples of cases of repeated requests that cause no cause for concern. And the headline of that is to try to secure some safer and better frames around the placed. As far as the part of the proposal on the legal basis for bringing young people who are already outside the home is concerned, the legislative text stresses that this should only apply in exceptional cases, and I certainly think so. Nevertheless, I also support both the expectations of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party that in the committee work we ensure not least the legal certainty of parents, but also the consultation responses that lie there. So we are in favour of this bill, but we also expect that in committee we will ensure that these very important issues are examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, SF, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126151954	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is an important proposal because it concerns children who are in a state of tension between the important adults around them. The bill is part of an agreement that was concluded to create calm and stability for placed children and young people and to support parental legal certainty in those cases. It is only those initiatives that require legislative changes from the agreement that we are focusing on today. There is therefore still work to be done to ensure that practices in this area can also deal with the complex processes at stake and that legal certainty for both children and adults is improved. As several consultation responses point out, there is a need to strengthen legal certainty in an area where errors are seen, among other things. in relation to action plans, children's conversations, supervision, etc. We agree with that in the SF. It is therefore important that the fundamental principles of the child's best, prevention, involvement and information, as set out in the objective clause of the Services Act in this area, be emphasised. A placement is an attempt to solve some problems, but at the same time it means that some new problems arise. It is therefore a question of creating opportunities for development for children, but it requires cooperation between all those involved and recognising that legislation and regulation do not in themselves solve the problems. This field is about emotions and relationships, which is why we should not underestimate the importance of the authorities' approach in the work and the framework for the work they are going to do. Dramas up to a placement may have created a conflict field and turned the parties into opponents instead of fellow players. There is therefore a need to answer the question of how this cooperation can be improved and how development can be created. False requests for return can be avoided with enhanced dialogue. It's important. We have in many ways a good law based on the best interests and rights of the child, as they are also described in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, but it also requires compliance with the intentions of the law, among others. the purpose of the installation is clearly stated. And here it is not enough to describe the needs of the child; it must also indicate what the need is in relation to relations between the child and the parents. The law also describes the need for systematic involvement. The municipality must therefore consider how to involve the individual family and how to cooperate with the parents, including the possibility for the parents to keep up with the child's life and the child's ability to relate to his parents. Information must be provided and the right decisions must be taken. Consideration of the child's best interests and cooperation with parents are each other's prerequisites, and a strengthened basis for information in placement cases will also strengthen legal certainty. Dialogue and cooperation are the best way to ensure a good course for the child. The draft law must therefore not change the starting point of the Services Act, namely the cooperation with the family about the child, and it must be clear to the parents and the child what the background, purpose and content of the measures are when, exceptionally, it is not possible to obtain consent. As several consultation responses point out, the obligation of the municipalities to provide support for parents and a plan of action to help solve the problems that have contributed to the placement is important both in terms of association during placement and in terms of return. So, when the bill states that the municipality may refuse to deal with applications for return by placings without consent, if there has been no significant change in the circumstances that led to the placement, then it makes some demands on how the matter is handled up to the location and during the placement. As pointed out in the comments to the draft law, this does not alter the content of the claims in the case: that it must be sufficiently informed, access to justice, etc. In order to support parental legal certainty and to strengthen the information base, it is proposed that there should always be an assessment of parental competence in cases of placement without consent, which also determines whether it is possible to avoid placement by providing various forms of assistance and support to parents. At the same time, it is intended to ensure quality in the studies by requiring it to be done by an authorised psychologist. We support all of this as well. Then there is the whole question of enforcement, to which I shall just make a few comments. It is therefore important here that we ensure that this happens only if it would be detrimental to the child not to do so, if the need for change of support is significant and acute and if at the same time there are no other options. And it must be done as gently as possible for the child. Finally, I would like to say that we also support the part of the legislative proposal that is about children and young people, of course, not having to pay for their stay when they have a job, and hope that it can also be extended to those who are over 18 years of age. With those words, I can just say here in the end, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152516	Yes, time goes by quickly when you have a lot on your mind, but thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152528	Thank you. As our rapporteur on this subject, Pernille Skipper, cannot be here, I am putting forward the views on our behalf. The Enhedslisten welcomes the intention to create calm and stability for children and young people placed in care and also improve legal certainty for parents who have children placed outside the home. Although there are good elements in the proposal, for example. Unfortunately, the proposal that children and young people with recreational jobs should not be offset for their stay in a settlement does not mean that the proposal has, overall, succeeded in creating better conditions for neither children nor parents in placement cases. Studies from e.g. Justitia and the City of Copenhagen have documented that there are errors in too many placement cases, in fact almost all of them. In addition, the Institute for Human Rights and others have shown that the case is lagging behind, among other things. when it comes to the involvement of parents and children in matters. Unfortunately, the draft law deals only to a limited extent with how to reduce the number of errors in the procedure. If we are to improve legal certainty and the life situation of children and their parents, the number of errors must be reduced. This presupposes that the right professional quality is present in the proceedings. Now it must not be understood and misunderstood as a mistrust of the municipal case officers, but rather as a recognition that the problems in placement cases are many and complex and the resources in the municipalities are scarce and that they are unlikely to be solved with individual legislative changes and adjustments. This could be counterproductive. We find it particularly problematic that the proposal will prevent parents from requesting the repatriation of a child in some situations, especially when we know that there are errors in a disproportionate proportion of cases. We are sceptical about extending the possibility of resorting to coercion with possible involvement of the police. Unfortunately, the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal in its current form, but we would very much like to work for a division of the proposal in order to improve legal certainty and to have less coercion in placement cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152734	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152744	Thank you. The bill here is an important legislative proposal which helps to strengthen the tranquillity and stability of vulnerable children and young people by placing them outside the home, which is particularly important in terms of their well-being. This is true, for example. tranquillity in the context of a placement without consent, where children and young people are spared of baseless retreatments of the placement case, which can be very burdensome and can help to create insecurity for the child when there has been no significant change in the circumstances of the case. In addition, there are among other things: also in the draft law, strengthening the link between the choice of location and the choice of an appropriate educational offer for the child or young person. It is also important for the child's everyday life to function and for the child to thrive. Finally, I would like to mention that in a placement outside the home, the bill also provides for a separate assessment of the parental authority's competences in relation to caring for the child or young person in the child's study. And there is a requirement that any psychological investigations of the custody holder be carried out by an authorized psychologist. This must, of course, help to increase the quality of the survey. Finally, I would like to mention that the draft law also provides for the abolition of the self-payment for 24-hour stays for children and young people under the age of 18, and the Conservative People's Party can support this. We support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152937	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126152944	Thank you. In the alternative, we also think that there are some very good intentions in this bill. Of course, we also believe that, if there are grounds for adjustment in the light of the consultations, it is our duty, of course, to do so, that is, if we can become wiser. I think it is important that parents cannot be guaranteed a resumption of the treatment of an infinity placement, as sometimes happens. It doesn't create any peace of mind about that placement. At some point, the child also needs to know that this is what the situation is now and that this is how it continues to be. It is okay, of course, that you can refuse to resume a case if there has been no significant change. The problem is that so many cases are based on errors, as several of the other rapporteurs have also said. I feel a little that parents may be deprived of rights if they refuse to be able to resume a case based on errors. Assuming that your child is placed because of an error or that there have been significant errors in a procedure and that then you cannot resume the case, you would go insane. It would be awful as parents to witness it, so I think that is also one thing we need to debate. Does this leave some parents without any rights in a very, very difficult situation where they should actually be able to do something? Another point I am thinking of is that, in relation to situations where a child is chosen to be transferred from one parent to the other, it says: 'The bill envisages changing the rules so that the municipalities are allowed to execute decisions on the change of location without consent, possibly with the assistance of the police, in the exceptional cases where this is necessary for the best interests of the child or young person. ▪ Here we have spent 3 years in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the last period and made family law, and there we went a lot of rounds to make sure that there was no child in this country that was to be picked up by the bailiff or the police. We worked really, really hard on it, and I actually think we managed to secure it. At any rate, it is the aim of the law that no children should be taken from under a table anymore, while they are screaming, by a bailiff or a police officer who saw against the parent's will go with it. There were a lot of things we were through. First of all, we need to start by seeing whether there is no voluntary agreement between parents. Secondly, a parent may be subject to periodic penalty payments if he or she does not want to let a child go. Later, the parent who detains the child may be detained so that he may be able to pick up the child from school. Only then can you come in with a bet that is directly about removing the child. So we did really, really much in family law to make sure that there is no child that just has to be removed by the police, and now I think we are standing here risking something. I need to read even more about it, because it's not a single piece of law. In fact, I do not think I see the filters or the many initiatives to prevent the police from picking up these children. It is extremely traumatizing for a child to be picked up by the police against the will of his parents. I also think that DF is right that it might be a good idea to discuss this a little more. It is clear that in the alternative we have also been involved in adopting this, so we would also like to have it expanded, have it done flexibly and have it done well, but we have to always make sure that what we are doing is right. I think there are some consultation answers here that may call for an adjustment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153332	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153348	Thank you. I agree with many of the comments that have been made both from the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and now also from the Alternative with regard to the concerns about some of the things that are part of this bill. Personally, I also note the fact that the municipalities can be given the opportunity to refuse to deal with requests from the custody holder for the return of children and young people when there has been no significant change in circumstances. When we have seen so many mistakes in this area, who is it that has to sit and judge whether significant changes have taken place if the original basis is completely wrong? That's one thing. The second is that it is also a question of how placement cases are one of the most heartbreaking. I think that all of us who have children can agree that it cuts you to the heart that there are families that are being divided in this way. I'm afraid that's necessary sometimes, but we also have to make sure we do this right. I get worried when I read more of the parts of this bill. I am really concerned, as the Danish People's Party also mentioned, when I read some of the hearing answers that have come; especially when we know how many mistakes there are in this area, and also how many mistakes there are in other areas, and how many mistakes are made around the municipalities, both in the area of children's disability, adult disability, etc. Against this background, new citizens cannot support this draft law in its present form, but I look very much forward to discussing it in committee, because it is a really, very important area. We cannot support the draft law as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153536	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153541	Thank you for the floor. With Bill L 68, we will implement an agreement that is a partial agreement under the 2019-2020 rate pool. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, the aim of the agreement is, after all, to give more calm to children placed in care, and this is ensured, among other things. by avoiding placement cases where there has actually been no change in circumstances. So it can be said that in this way children are to some extent also protected from ruthless adults, if you like. This is a very good initiative, which a broad majority supports, so we also support the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153634	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Social Affairs and Interior Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126153643	Thank you for that and thank all the rapporteurs who have been on the floor here today. After all, we all know that we have a legislative proposal that implements the legislative sub-initiatives in Ro and stability for vulnerable children and young people from last year's rate-pool agreement, and then the draft law also translates the two sub-initiatives into strengthening parental legal certainty in placement cases from the same political agreement. The purpose of the draft law is, among other things, to: to support calm and stability for some of the most vulnerable children and young people we have who, in the words of the SF rapporteur, are at risk of getting caught between important adults in their lives and experiencing pressure, which they have already experienced abundantly in their lives. With the bill, we allow municipalities to refuse to deal with requests from the custody holder to have children and young people placed without consent when there has been no significant change in the situation in the case. This is one of the elements of the draft law and, following on from that, I would just like to make one comment on what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, namely that we would not look at the consultation answers that are available. If you look at the consultation note, a large number of the clarifications which have been made in the comments to the draft law as a result of the consultations have been sketched out from page five onwards. I think it is important that we deal with this with all the caution and accuracy that needs to be done because it is one of the most intrusive things a society can do when it can be seen that there is a child who is abandoned by its parents, that is to say to take responsibility on the shoulders of the community and that we then also lift the responsibility properly. For this reason, clarification, clarification and adjustments have been made in the legislative notes on the basis of the consultation note, among others. Compared to what that means, there has not been any significant change in the situation. That is, of course, one of the crucial points of the draft law here. I very much look forward to, and I would very much like to go into, this too, and all the rapporteurs should know that this is further developed in committee so that we can be absolutely sure that we are on safe ground here. It is difficult matter, and it is also an area in which we have to say that there are some of the things that have been raised from the platform here today, which have little to do with this bill, but which have to do with some broader challenges in the area of placement. I am very happy to discuss this with the committee, but I think we must keep our mouths shut with the specific legislative proposal and insist that it does nothing more or less than what we have now agreed it should be able to do. I will not go deeper into all the other elements of the bill here. There are seven different ones, and I think the rapporteurs have been thorough about them in their speeches. So I would just like to make one comment on what goes on, I think, mostly in the concerns, namely the discussion on the introduction of the legal basis for implementing the decision on the change of location without consent. I can say to the rapporteur of the Alternative and to others who may be interested in it that this legal basis already exists today when it comes to implementing the decision, which is about the child's having to go from parents to foster families or to a day-to-day institution. The Ombudsman has asked to know whether there is a similar legal basis in the case of a child placed in care, such as: must be moved from one place of residence to another because the needs of the child have changed so that the professional qualifications required are no longer available and there is a need to implement them without consent. That legal basis does not exist today, but there is a parallelity to the fact that the legal basis is there today when the transfer takes place from the parents to the foster family or place of placement. But we need it when it's a child once placed. That means stability. I think we all agree on that very much for these children, but in some very specific cases there may be a need for a different offer from what the child or young person is in. However, it has also been clarified and further underlined in the comments based on the consultation answers that it is only in very special cases where the child's or the young person's need for change of support is very significant and, on the basis of urgency, that, in the interests of the child or the young person's best interests, there will not be any economic relationship to anything other than the child's or the young person's best care could be the basis for the enforcement of the decision with the assistance of the police. So it has also been further enclosed in the comments following the consultation responses. Because I agree with all the rapporteurs that this is not something to be taken lightly at all and that it is not something that is suddenly going to happen in very many cases. Therefore, legislation has also introduced that in these cases there will be a duty to register it and report it to the Ankestyrelsen so that we can follow developments very, very closely. And I sense that, after today's debate, there is warm support from the rapporteurs. Of course, we should also like to expand on all this in committee. I have no interest in anything other than having all the concerns expressed, both in the hearings and by the rapporteurs here, clarified as much as possible in the committee procedure. So with that I would say that I am, of course, available to answer all the questions that may be asked, and just thank you for a good and constructive first reading of the proposal, which I admit is complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154222	Thank you. That is good, because there are two issues so far, and the first is Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154228	Thank you. Dear Minister, that is connected, after all, things are connected. When we cannot ensure that these cases are not filled with errors and shortcomings, when there is no quality assurance in these cases, and when we know how many cases there are wronged, we will now open up a legal basis for enforcement so that the police can get in when you have to move a child from one location to another location. One is the law on services, but another is the law on justice, in relation to what the police can do when a child is in danger. Yes, then the police can also contact and enter a house if the children are in danger. Of course they can. Something else is that you want it to be incorporated into the service legislation, and we are well aware of it with the Ombudsman. We could also go the other way and say: should we even have such a legal basis? Because the facts are that these cases and other cases in which the police have appeared, even if they were not allowed, have been broken by law, and I therefore think that the Minister should simply clarify when it is in the interests of the child's best interests. We've seen the Andreas case and the Michael Lambert case, and I don't know how many cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154333	Thank you! Then it is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior who has to answer the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154345	Thank you. Firstly, we cannot deal with individual cases in this Chamber, so I cannot go into a specific case. But I was actually trying to be quite thorough here in my collection, in terms of how it is defined and fenced in the draft law's comments, and that it is only in very, very special cases... exceptional cases... where the child's or the young person's need for changed support is very significant and as a starting point acute, and I would very much like to clarify further in the committee's proceedings how that demarcation is, just as there is the certainty for all of us that these very few cases will be reported to the Ankestyrelsen, so that we can follow developments. I would like to say to the rapporteur, but the rapporteur also knows very well that there are already some rules in the Services Act which apply when a young person is removed from the parents by compulsion, but they do not apply if it is necessary to move the young person from, for example, the best of the young person. one specialised institution for another, and this is not because it is about to be moved forcibly around children and young people. It is also very clearly described in the draft law's comments, and we would be happy to elaborate on it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154456	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154457	Thank you. Yes, there is a need for further clarification, and then the Minister must acknowledge it in relation to this area when it goes so far in these matters. Then the minister tells us not to go to trial. No, I'm not a case worker either. But there have been documentary evidence in this area in relation to the case from Esbjerg about Michael Lambert, which was to be forcibly removed from his foster family, and the Andreas case was on television, and that is why I mention it by name. There have been so many documentaries in this area and so many other things that show that this area is simply not under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154534	Thank you. I have to say that I believe that, when there are names, it is perhaps better to put the question in writing to the Minister in this regard. But now it's the minister to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154544	But there I would like to say very clearly to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and everyone else in this Chamber that there is no minister standing here and saying that everything is working very well in the area of placement. On the contrary. I think we need to go through this area with a close comb, and if you are in doubt, you can just look at the Children's Affairs Barometer, which came with figures for the first time here at the end of last week, as to how many places there are errors in the rules. But we have to go all the way around here. We need to find out to what extent it is the legislation that we have put in place that sets counter-claims that is too much for the process, how much it is about resources or professionalism out there, how much it is about the measures that are being taken when. Well, it's not this bill that makes it from or through. This bill makes some concrete improvements, but the big discussion is the job of us, despite the fact that there are some improvements in this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154635	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154637	Thank you. I agree with the Minister that there are, in fact, a large number of comments on the law which clarify what it is like today, and when concerns arise both with me, but also with others around this, it is because the clarifications have been there for a very long time and it is difficult to see that you are quite in line with the law. One of the things I would like to hear from the Minister is: how do we ensure that, prior to placing without consent, genuine attempts have been made to cooperate with the parents, to involve them in the proceedings, to justify the placement, not only according to the needs of the child, but also on the basis of the needs of the child's relationship with its parents? That is one question. The second is in relation to enforcement: how do we ensure that it is actually for the child's good? For the minister says "and it is also stated in the notes on the law that it must be urgent as a starting point. " What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154746	Thank you. The Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154751	In relation to the latter, I think I will simply leave it to say that we must have it done better during the committee procedure. I have answered to the best of my ability here, but it is clear that we must have the committee reassured that this is properly defined in the comments of the draft law and therefore also in any guidance that may come out. Because it is clear that this must ultimately work in practice, and then there is a backstop that allows us to be able to follow closely at the Ankestyrelsen, how many cases are coming here, and it is very, very clear that I hardly need to read it again. It is a question of this being only in very special cases, and we will then be able to keep up with that. But let us get it further into committee reading. I do not remember the first question, but perhaps the rapporteur has an opportunity to put it again in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154840	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154841	I'll try to be brief. It's all about how it is, how it ensures this involvement of the parents, that it has actually taken place, and that you have made a proper attempt to cooperate with the parents and get the parents involved in the decision to place the child. However, in the same way as that with enforcement: in the view of the Minister, it would be within the scope of a municipality, for example. had disagreements with a location? Would that be enough to enforce a transfer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126154915	No, financial disagreements or other differences, which have nothing to do with the needs of the child and the changing needs of the child, will not fall into this. But let us get it further, and you can ask some questions and get answers, and it can also be printed along with the bill, and that would be a good way to get the worries that may be vilified in the ground. Then I would like to say that there is nothing in this draft law, as I also said to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who changes the whole foundation on which placement proceedings are based. In fact, I wrote down that the rapporteur said in his speech that these in vain requests for return can be avoided if there is proper cooperation, and that is why part of the legislative proposal here is also about ensuring better lighting of parental competences, among other things, and the aim of cooperation is, of course, a foundation on which this bill also rests.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126155009	Thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Social Affairs and Home Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126155025	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126155103	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start the discussion of the resolution here today by thanking the Danish People's Party for focusing on the efforts of children and young people placed in care, because all children deserve a safe and good childhood. And as a society, we have a special responsibility to ensure that an exposed child does not become an exposed adult. We are not lifting that responsibility well enough today. I therefore fully support the purpose and intention of the motion for a resolution. Because, of course, legal certainty must be in order. The children must be involved in the decisions, and efforts and follow-up must be made within the deadlines, not only because the law says so, but because it is the whole prerequisite for engaging in the past and ensuring a good and safe upbringing for children when their parents are unable to take proper care of them. It is therefore very worrying that according to the latest figures from the Children's Affairs Barometer, there are so many errors in the municipal case handling in placement cases. For it is another failure of vulnerable children and young people when there are no children's conversations before the case is decided or when, for example, there are no children's conversations. I am not sure whether the help they receive actually works. It should not be a mistake in paragraphs or proceedings that make the children end up in a kind of limbo where there is no control and quiet around their standing place in life in the place they can call their home. That is why we need to get to the bottom of the problem of maladministration, so that vulnerable children and young people get the right help. The quality of the installation effort shall be raised. When a municipality chooses to place a child, society takes on a parental task. Here it is the job of placements to create a home and a good child's life for children. The children must meet with hugs and with the care that belongs in a safe and good home, and with everyday talk over the dinner table. And if they need special support, adults must have the right professional skills. Today, however, the quality of 24-hour institutions and places of residence is far too fluctuating. That it is the case that placing in a 24-hour institution or a place of residence too often does not feel like a home for children and young people in care is a problem. The latest welfare survey shows, for example, that it is only 28%. of children and young people placed at the 24-hour establishments who feel at home where they are located. Together with the implementation of the reserve for 2020, we have taken the first steps towards becoming more aware of where the shoe is pressing. That is why I am very much looking forward to the study on the local authorities' placement cases that we have jointly agreed on, and I am pleased that in the reserve agreement we have highlighted the culpable excavation of the rules and municipal practices in this area that the government and KL have set in motion. Together, the two studies can contribute to an overview of some of the challenges facing cases of placement without consent, e.g.: in relation to legal certainty and the involvement of children. Because it should not be the rules that stand in the way of the best possible response to vulnerable children and young people. This is an important area of action, but it does not solve the problems because too many children and young people in positions of responsibility experience instability and unrest, despite the fact that they particularly need a safe and stable home. And placed children and young people are far too prominent in boring statistics. Half of the homeless young people have been housed, one in four previously placed men have been in prison before the 30th year, and only a quarter of young people with housing background have received youth training at 25 years of age. And that's how I could, unfortunately, continue to be the case with suicide statistics and other things. If we are to put an end to the sad statistics on children and young people in care, if we are to succeed in giving them a better life, we need to work more fundamentally. I have spoken to both current and previously placed children and young people, a large number of organisations, practitioners, think tanks and experts, and I have not fully completed an overview of the challenges in this area, but a picture is beginning to emerge. First of all, I am concerned when most placements without consent today are done among large children, but very few are placed as very small. I do not believe that this is due to the fact that the problems arise only when the child becomes a teenager. I think that's where they're first discovered. Those children should have had the right help much earlier. And for some, a place outside the home will at an earlier stage be the right help so that the problems do not grow so large that the children risk being harmed for life. And then the municipalities must give the right bets early. If parents cannot take proper care of their children, they should no longer have that responsibility. Here society must take over so that vulnerable children get the care and closeness of stable adults that all children deserve. Secondly, much greater security and stability must be created in the placement. All exposed children must have a safe and stable home from birth. Children and young people brought in should not live with a fundamental uncertainty that they must suddenly move and start over. This requires, among other things, that children be heard and that their opinions form part of the basis of their efforts. For the day of foster children, when I had a group of foster children here at Christiansborg, several of the children told how they experience that they have no influence on their situation and everyday life. The local ladies, as they call them, do not listen to them and ask them nothing. This is not the way to create a good everyday life and whole people who can stand on their own feet. Too many children placed in the home experience being throwing ball between biological parents, the municipality and up to several different placements and foster parents. We need to get to the bottom of why things are going wrong. Then we need to learn more about what creates the good placement in a foster family so that even more children placed in care can have a good and loving foster family, for it is a great responsibility to take care of a foster child. This task must not be left alone by the foster families, which is why the foster families must also have proper conditions. We must ensure that they receive support, sparring and training so that they are properly dressed for the task. Then we have to make sure that the young people who have been placed get well into adult life when the placement is over. As a rule, when young people leave home, there is support for a new life on their own from both mother and father and friends, but previously placed young people are often poor on lifewitnesses, they often have a weak network, and they get to stand too alone and have to find their own legs to stand on in the difficult transition to adulthood. I believe that the parental responsibility of society for children placed in care involves responsibility for the whole life of the child and responsibility for adulthood. And here we have failed when half the homeless kids are previously placed. First of all, I would like to listen to what the young people who were previously placed tell me that they were missing in the transition to adulthood, because they are the experts in their own lives. Finally, efforts towards the most vulnerable children and young people must not be driven by a goal of making as much money as possible, but by helping children as best they can. The profits of the placement sites must be spent on the children. We must therefore go all the way around the problem of some places of employment being able to withdraw profits from the institution. I have now mentioned a number of the areas in which I see major challenges in the efforts to put children and young people in care. Here we owe it to the vulnerable children and young people to address the problems basically, of course, with the broad involvement of those who know the challenges in practice, not least the children and young people placed in care themselves. It is an ambitious work to be able to take a grip on the challenges of the area in earnest. My ambition and that of the government is that children placed in care will have the same opportunities in childhood and adulthood as their peers. If the major challenges in the field of housing are to be solved, we must look beyond the scope of the motion for a resolution. I and the government are already involved in this, but broad involvement is not only the involvement of experts and children placed in it, but the involvement of the entire wide range of actors in this area. Against this background, the government cannot support motion for a resolution B 8, but once again I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for its strong focus on the subject and, incidentally, thank almost all the parties in the Danish Parliament for the good agreement on the reserve that we recently concluded, among other things. Take a closer look at the area here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126155933	Thank you. There are some questions. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126155937	Yeah, that's what happens when you get a new government. It was the case that the Socialist rapporteur stood up in the Chair last time we had this motion for a resolution before the Parliamentary Assembly and fully supported this motion for a resolution and even said: 'I think there is a long way to go, but with this motion for a resolution we are going some way...'. Then it is now the Socialist Minister who says that it cannot be backed up. It is true that we have reached a small step further in the rate pool precisely in relation to that, and then the government says that they have launched a study with KL, so the municipalities must investigate what they are doing wrong. That is one aspect, but it is not enough. You have to use the whole palette precisely in relation to those who have knowledge in this area, those who work with it in the day-to-day work and, as the Minister says, the children placed. I just have to say that it is unbelievable that when the power of government changes, the motion for a resolution that has been supported in the past cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160041	Thank you. I do not know whether there really was a question, but I would like to say the same thing as I heard my colleague, the social rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party at the time, who said that I have the same recognition that it is important to clarify what the Danish People's Party is also calling for. I think we have taken some important steps in relation to that with the reserve agreement we have concluded. The coal excavation that is under way and agreed in the economic agreement with KL uncovers another part of it. And then I know, because I read the summary of the debate, that in the spring, when the proposal was discussed here by the Socialist rapporteur, there was also a proposal that was not voted on because of the announcement of the elections, there was a clear indication that something broader and greater was needed than the concrete digging of coal. So I cannot reverse the position of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party on what one would just like to sign for the commitment of the Danish People's Party rapporteur and say that I look very much forward to further cooperation in this area, both on the matters agreed in the reserve and on the wider work that is to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160146	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160147	Yeah, and here's where it's gonna be interesting. You can actually support it, but you just will not vote for it because it is the opposition that brings it. That's where it is. That's the way it is. The Socialist rapporteur said: 'Hey, I welcome from the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radical Left and say that, like the Social Democrats, they support this proposal. However, there is so much, and much can change when another government comes along and you no longer sit in opposition. However, we must continue to work in relation to the involvement of the parties involved in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160220	I would like to say to the rapporteur that I do not quite see the great conflict that the rapporteur has outlined here. Back then, as now, this is the Social Democrat and the government's point... we're gonna have to look more closely at this. After all, my speech went through a very, very wide range of places where we do not do well enough for children and young people in care. There is something about procedure, rule of law, legislation, legal certainty. There is something about what kind of bets we have and how early we put in. There's something about when we're gonna let go of the kids we've been planted. After all, we need to look more closely at all this, and we indicated this at the time, and we are of course doing so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160259	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160301	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for his speech, which came a long way. In fact, we also have a question debate on the same subject in the near future, so I think that we will have it debated. There were a large number of things that I was pleased to hear, and also some things that we may not entirely agree on, but we can take that into account in the question debate. But there was one thing that so created a little hope in me: it was the Minister's remarks about the transition of young people to adulthood. Does this mean, as the Minister says, that we can finally achieve the goal of SF's long-standing desire to give young people placed in protective custody a right beyond the 18th year?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160345	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160346	I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that we have a question debate on the status of the child's reform and the intentions of the child's reform. If I do not remember very wrongly and I look down at the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party I think it is the Danish People's Party that has called the question debate, so it is true that we have one more opportunity to discuss it here. I do not want to stand here today on the platform and put it into concrete policy proposals, but I would very much like to stand by the government's view that the parental responsibility of society for children placed in care implies responsibility for life and therefore also responsibility for adulthood. And I think that the explanation for the fact that there are some people we see falling all the way through the social security net of our society and ending up in the homeless statistics ends up in suicide statistics... all these terrible numbers that we all know too well are that they're left alone. We know that it is young people who are weak on networks, on knowledge of life and on lifelines, I heard some previously placed call it recently. There I believe that society has a greater responsibility than we promise today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160450	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160451	It would have been almost too good to be true if we had been able to get such an indication today. But just to clarify it: is it the case that the Minister agrees that it is possible today to provide protection for young people after the 18th year, but that provision is being applied too little?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160509-2	In any case, I would say that I myself am aware of some of the boundaries of that provision and that it is one of the things that immediately pops into the eye as something that might well need to be looked at, that is, why they have been drawn up and how they are applied. So I guess it's as close as I can get to this from the platform today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160527	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160531	Thank you. Well, we are also excited about this resolution in the Alternative. That fg. President. - I ask the rapporteur to stand up unless the rapporteur is in such great pain because of his back still away.' Thank you for asking. No, my back's all right again. I was just sitting so well. Now I've stood up for the Folketing. We also think that Karina Adsbøl from DF made a very good resolution, and we also supported it last time. What I just see here is actually the gratifying thing that it sounds as if there is a study from the Ministry which, in addition to containing the things that DF is asking for, also contains an even deeper examination of the area, and there is even a little funding for it; a million for it has been found through the reserve. If the Minister can confirm it, then I just think we should be pleased that we have got something that really, really goes into depth with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160640	Good to hear, and welcome back to the rapporteur. It is good to hear that it was not back pain that held the rapporteur in the chair in the first place. Well, there are several elements in the game here. It is true that part of the agreement entered into last week on the reserve means that we must have and have allocated money for a thorough examination of a series of placement cases filed against the Ankestyrelsen (Ankestyrelsen) both where there is support and where there is no support, and see if there is anything going on again, whether there is anything in relation to legislation, the regulatory basis, the way you work with these cases in the municipalities. In addition to this, a coal excavation of both the legal basis, but also the practice of the municipalities, under the economic agreement concluded by the government with the municipalities, has been initiated. It's starting to be a few months ago. And in addition to that, this government has as its ambition to have a broad view of the whole placement area, and that's what I was trying to get through the big chunks of my speech. In fact, this is not just a matter of legal basis or procedure or legal certainty. In fact, it is also a question of: are these the right measures? Is it in the right time? Is there sufficient stability for those children and young people? Is there the right help into adulthood? And all the other things I came around.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160751	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160754	Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't gotten in again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160802	Okay, yes, but then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160805	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. In fact, I think there was one thing here at the end, as the Minister said, which I would very much like to see clarified a little. For the Minister said that the government has an ambition to look even further in this area now. Because it is true that last week we have reached an agreement which is a step on the road. But I would really like to ask the Minister: when does the government expect to look further into this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160839	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126160840	First of all, I would like to say that what we have agreed on in relation to the reserve, which I believe can provide new substantial knowledge, is also on the backs of other things we have agreed. And last week, for the first time, we got results from the Children's Action Barometer, which is something we have agreed in the past and which means that in the course of a 3-year roll we will have full processing in all municipalities in this country and can see where it is that the errors are in the case and where the problems of legal certainty are. And in this way, there is not one such initiative that solves everything here, and that is why I do not have a complete timetable here today either. It is essential that we look at it very broadly. It is in itself a task to find out how much data and how much knowledge we actually have access to. There are some of the figures coming from the Ankestyrelsen now, which are relatively new because we have not had sufficient access to data in this area. There are certainly still some places where there are knowledge gaps, and then there is what I think is the most important thing, namely all the experience experienced out there. So all the knowledge you get from talking to previously placed children and the other actors in the field, which can also help fill some of the knowledge gaps. And that process is quite large and comprehensive when you insist that we go all the way around. And that is why I do not have such a complete timetable here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161003	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161004	I guess I didn't believe that either. But that is why it was interesting to ask, because when the Minister himself says that the government has the ambition to look more closely at this area, I clearly share it. For the figures that come out over and over again are awful, and that is why I think we all have an interest in something happening, perhaps also relatively quickly. But in relation to that timetable, which the Minister then does not have in the Chamber today: is it such that it is something like this? The committee also gets involved in some way when you think that you're gonna look at this more broadly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161050	Well, I would be very happy to include in the committee's further work, just as when new figures and results come up on an ongoing basis, for example. with the children's case barometer, or when we get the new analysis, as we have agreed in the reserve. When the coal excavation, as we have agreed with the municipalities, is there, I would very much like to involve the committee. Now the SF's rapporteur mentioned that we will be discussing this issue again in the foreseeable future due to a question on the child's reform. I mean, I just imagine that this is something we'll also have an ongoing political dialogue about, the government and the parties of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161125	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and the Interior and move on to the rapporteur's line. And the first rapporteur is Mrs Camilla Fabricius. We welcome Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161156	When you're still new, you can claim the right to be a little confused. And I actually thought it was the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party who was to present it because she was the one who tabled the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161216	I would just like to say that the rapporteur concludes in his motion for a resolution. When we are through the whole procedure, the rapporteur for the proposers comes up to the very end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161222	In fact, I think that those who listen at home are very happy that the President can help me and the rest of Denmark with that, so I very much appreciate it. As both B 8 here and the Minister describe, what we experience around Denmark is quite heartbreaking. I can say that I myself worked at a large special school in Viby, Aarhus, where we had up to several children who attended the school and who were placed at some of the 24-hour institutions that are in Aarhus, and here I experienced how difficult it was for them to find peace and security to actually perform in relation to the resources they actually had intellectually and how pressured they were to create friendships and to form relationships in the associations to which we tried to link them. I have also recently visited the Basque Country in Aarhus, an organisation that looks after the interests of people who have been placed at some point in time. The hinterland is an open offer, which organises networks, even for those of an old age, because, as they say, you always have an exposure when you have been placed because you do not have the same strong network. If there's something that shakes a little during a period of your life... if you have a divorce or you have to move to another city to read... you always need someone who steps in. And that is why I would like to acknowledge the proposer very much for a very strong focus, not just with this, but for a persistent fight to highlight it. I have noticed the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, even before I was allowed to enter the platform, have special attention on vulnerable children. I think it is also quite clear that, with the negotiations we concluded last week, we have just come to the end of doing what B 8 really wants, namely to create a very significant overview of it. In fact, I think that we are standing here in a place that is very sensible and very good, because we can look ourselves in the eye and see that B 8 has really come a very long way. That is why it does not make sense for the Social Democrats to join it, but we will follow it very well. And once again I would like to give a great deal of credit for this, and I also think that we should keep the Minister up to the point that she will involve the committee in the further process and try to allow the committee to be a strong part of the process of starting to create a better everyday life for the children and young people who are placed outside their homes and where we take the experience with us. For all children, no matter where they may be, have the right to a good childhood and a good youth and to exploit the potentials they may have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161543	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161545	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive speech, but also for the recognition of the work of a counterpart. I'd like to sign for that. That said, there is something I would like to hear. It is said that we agree with the motion for a resolution, particularly with regard to the inclusion of all the elements of legal certainty for those concerned, the need to look at quality assurance in matters and the need to clarify whether the Committee on Children's and Young People's Rights is right to make the decisions they make when we talk about placement. The Social Democrats say that it is not good enough and that more is needed, and we are always willing to look at that in the Danish People's Party. But then it is possible today that you can make an amendment if you want to have more in a resolution. We have the opportunity to do so today. So what exactly is it that the Social Democrats cannot support in this resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161649	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161650	Thank you. Basically, we think that we have come to the end of the first step by setting up a working group last week and by the fact that the Minister has also explained that we as a committee are being involved in a process forward-looking. So, in my view, it does not make sense to adopt something in which a working group has been set up. So that is how I find it contradictory. It is not contradictory in that the subject is relevant and central. It is about the fact that we have actually been played out and that we have actually achieved some of it. So I think that we could actually give a hand in recognising that and also clarify the things that we achieved last week. So, once again, there must be a great deal of recognition for the rapporteur with regard to the clarification in B 8.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161752	Karina Adsbøl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161754	Thank you. But does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a difference between whether a study is being carried out with the KL, where the KL has to examine itself? It is just to say that we know that in these cases there are a great many errors and shortcomings or whether you also have other actors in the whole area? I am quite aware of what we agreed, because I think it is so incredibly important that it has come on the table. And then, as rapporteur, it is better to get something than not to get anything at all, so it is of course very good that we got the things we did, but we can do much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161829	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161830	Well, I don't think it's right that you haven't gotten anything. In fact, I think that Karina Adsbøl has set such an agenda here. I think it is very important to keep KL up on how they investigate themselves, and I think it is very important that we examine the cases and learn lessons from what works and what does not work. In any case, I think that both as rapporteur and as Minister I have recognised it all the way through. I think we should bite to fuck, even if it's not Halloween, and move on this. In addition, however, we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161905	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126161913	Thank you for that, President. I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party for presenting this resolution today. After all, this is an important issue that we are dealing with primarily because it is about our children. But this is particularly true of those children and young people who are having a difficult time and who, unfortunately, have come into a situation where accommodation has been necessary. So these are families, which are often in very vulnerable situations, and that is why it also requires very proper handling. And I actually think that without me having to turn off the lights right here in the Assembly Hall, this is actually an area that we have to keep an eye on all the time. Unfortunately, it can also be said that some of the figures that we have been presented here recently, among other things. from the Children's Barometer, shows that there is something that needs to be addressed, but unfortunately I do not think it is something that has been solved with a fingertips, but it is indeed something that we, as politicians, politicians should also take seriously. One of the things I have noticed in particular is the lack of procedures which are being carried out around and, unfortunately, there are far too many errors in the various placement cases. And one of the things that I've also wanted to say to you personally is when I talk to young people who have been wronged... it hurts you when you hear about their stories. And I have to say that I think you may also have to dare to think about new ideas in this area. The minister mentioned it a little bit. I also hope that the Minister will follow up on looking at this, perhaps even wider. I mean, are there things that basically don't work in the right way? Could it be that these are quite different types of tools you need to use to get these numbers done significantly better than they are today? I clearly recognise that we are not in the end. With the agreement we made last week, it was a step along the way. There is more to be done, and there I think we are really well aware of the fact that this is a task which we also have an obligation to stick to and hopefully do better. The Left is not going to support this motion for a resolution, and we are not doing so on the basis that, as recently as last week, we agreed across a very large number of parties in the Folketing that we should now set a working group on a group of experts in motion. And Mrs Adsbøl, if anyone, also helped to ensure that it was included in the text of the agreement. So I think we owe it to the people involved in the work that they are now just getting the chance and the opportunity to make some recommendations to us, and I think it would be a wrong time now to start setting up an additional working group on top of one working group; so that is why we do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162243	There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162247	I would like to hear something from the rapporteur of the Left. It is true that we had something fought through, and also thanks for the support for the rapporteur of the Left, who also wanted to fight something through with regard to the reserve in this area. Then, as I said earlier, it was better to get a little than nothing. But I do not think that one excludes the other, because if you vote through this and at the same time get the other, then we are at least sure that something is going to happen in this area. So can the rapporteur of the Left tell me what exactly is in this motion for a resolution that cannot be supported? What exactly are the features of this motion for a resolution that cannot be supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162331	What we cannot support is that, just a few days after a working group has been set up, a group of experts to dig into these things, it is said that a group of experts would now like to be set up. I think there's something double in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162347	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162349	Yeah, but what we got adopted isn't quite adequate. This is just about the legal certainty unit going through some of these cases, but it's not about who's making the decision. Are the children and young people's committees the right ones? We would also like to see that clarified. Is there also a need for something more in relation to the competences of the case workers? This covers really, really broad in relation to the whole area of legal certainty, but also in relation to what we need to have looked at more. The second part we have got through is, of course, some of it, but it is far from being as comprehensive as this resolution is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162425	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party knows very well that I think it was one of the last nights that we also fought through, that among other things. the parties concerned had to be written more closely into the text of the agreement we made. I have to say that some of what I may be worried about, if you look straight out, just a few days after choosing to create another working group, is that some of the same parties are going to be drawn on. Actually, I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162453	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162507	Thank you for this debate and this proposal. I agree with the other speakers that it is very good that Mrs Karina Adsbøl has brought up this proposal. I fully support the intention. Unfortunately, we know that there are errors in placement cases, and of course there must not be. We all want the best for the children and we must strive for the highest quality in these very sensitive matters. We're in the process of getting started, and hopefully we're always looking at ourselves in the cards. That is very much our responsibility, because we are clearly not doing it well enough today, and, as the debate has also shown, we have already agreed on several studies. I would like to thank the Minister for sticking to the fact that we need to improve on this and that we simply do not have to continue what we are doing today. It's gonna take a change. Of course, on the part of the Radical Left, we would very much like to support that. In the course of the committee's work, we will work on a report on this proposal and decide our position, but we hope that we can gather together on a text that will ensure that we do the right thing, broadly in the Folketing. When we come to the debate on defence, which has taken place today, I must also say that I consider what we are doing today to be quite inadequate. I had a terrible experience recently at a shelter, where there was a department for people who came directly from placement to a shelter, which was then their first residence outside the home, if I may say so, in adult life. This is obviously quite wrong and also one of the reasons or a symptom that they placed children in their adult lives fills so much in the wrong statistics and so little in the right ones. So something has to be done. I very much appreciate this proposal and hope that we can find a proper text to move us forward in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162653	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126162701	I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Adsbøl for her hard work and for raising an important debate on the challenges of legal certainty, the quality of procedures and the exercise of authority in the field of placement. In the SF, as last time the motion for a resolution was tabled, we agree with the aim of this, namely that the area needs a review and that there is a need for political discussions on what improvements are to be made and whether the area is properly arranged in relation to the decision-making powers, i.e., as the comments on this point also show, whether the children and young people's committee are the right body to take decisions. The comments on the motion for a resolution refer, among other things, to: Justitia's report on problems with legal certainty. I have also read it with interest and it gives rise to important reflections. So we need to get smarter. The question is, how do we do it best? With the latest agreement on the social reserve, we have started some of the initiatives which we believe we should try to make a long way on at the initiative of Mrs Karina Adsbøl and others. A mapping of the current rules must be carried out to ensure that vulnerable children and young people receive the right help and that the child and family are properly involved. In accordance with the independent legal certainty unit agreed last year by the pool parties, a study will be carried out in 2020 on municipal placement cases focusing on those placements where there is no consent from the parents and where the Ankestyrelsen has either cancelled or confirmed the decision to place them. It shall show where there are challenges and shall be discussed with relevant organisations and experts who can contribute with their experience, knowledge and recommendations. This applies both to legal experts, professionals and interest groups, among others. parents and previously placed children and young people. That was among other things. a request from the Danish People's Party, which we support in the SF and which I will follow closely, because this area needs to be thoroughly investigated. That is why I am also pleased that, alongside this, Mrs Karina Adsbøl will be working with me to plan an expert hearing on the area. So we have to get to work and see if the work meets the objective, which is very important. There is a need for thorough action, so in the SF we would like to go further than this once we have taken the important steps contained in the agreement on the social reserve. But I also think that we should be careful that we do not at the same time create a lot of parallel processes and a lot of duplication. Last time it was tabled, we could support it, but the reason why we cannot support it now is simply that we do not want this to become such a messy store of various interventions and studies that stumble on each other. We must first look at: how far can we get by with what we have started now, and what will continue after that? But I would also like to point out from this that if we can come together on a report following on from the debate on the motion for a resolution, we would, of course, be very happy to cooperate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163025	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163028	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to express my support for the rapporteur's speech, also in relation to the cooperation we have had, in this area and in relation to the post-protection problem, with which we have also fought together and have been given funds for almost every time we have been in negotiations in the pool of rates. So that part is also extremely important, and it is true, as the rapporteur says, that some of it came up with in connection with the rate pool. After all, the rapporteur is now saying that it must be examined where there is no consent in matters of placement. That's one part. But then, in fact, we do not have the second, namely when there is consent. Why is it that consent is given, and why is it that you do not consent? Unfortunately, we have heard of some glaring examples from the National Association of Autism. We have even had consultation about it, that is, that many feel threatened by their parents for their child to be placed. You say that it is almost voluntary coercion to say that we agree with this. Is the rapporteur aware of the problem I am also raising here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163139	Yeah, I'm quite familiar with that. And in reality, it may almost be worse to consent with your hand behind your back, because this does not give you the same legal certainty and the same access to legal advice, etc. as you actually do if it is without consent. So I'm all for that. And what I also just want to say is that I do not think we are going to have that area examined just with the initiatives we have taken, but I am just worried that we are going into a whole lot of different studies that are not connected. Well, I actually want us to get to the bottom of it properly, but in a systematic way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163215	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163217	One thing now is that the KL has to investigate these cases in which they themselves make mistakes. That's one thing. The second issue is the legal certainty unit. So what are they going to investigate? And that is where I think we in the Danish Parliament can recommend the legal certainty unit all the elements that you think should be included in it, especially in relation to how we ensure that those who are dealing with these matters are dressed well enough to carry them out as well. How do we ensure quality assurance? I just want to say that if you vote for this, you get the whole package, so I don't think the rapporteur should be so worried about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163257	No, but I also have such a little respect for agreements that I make, and the agreement we have made is almost hot in print yet. That is why, of course, I am in favour of this agreement and, as I say, I do not think we have examined this area in depth. So I also have the expectation that we will be able to stop what the Minister said in his speech, namely that this is an area that basically requires much more focus than what is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163329	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we will move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163338	Thank you. As our rapporteur, Pernille Skipper, cannot be here, I would like to express our views and start by thanking the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution to set up a group of experts in the field of housing and for their hard work in improving conditions for children and their families. It is a violent intervention when a municipality decides to place a child outside the home. There can be no doubt about that. It is therefore also very serious that there are so many errors in the treatment in an excessive number of placement cases. It is documented by e.g. Justitia, the City of Copenhagen and the Institute of Human Rights, whose studies are also referred to in the motion for a resolution. The Unity List therefore welcomes the proposal to set up a group of experts to cultivate the site. There is a great need to clarify how the number of errors in placement cases can be reduced, so that we strengthen legal certainty both for children and biological parents and foster families, but also to ensure the greatest possible well-being and security for those children who unfortunately have to be placed outside the home. We take particular note of the fact that the expert group must not only consist of legal and social expertise, but must also count past experience with the system. We find this very positive. We also welcome the focus of the Group of Experts on the prevention and safeguarding of professional quality in the case. The comments on the motion for a resolution do not reflect on financing nor on the estimated cost of the proposal. Against this background, Enhedslisten supports the proposal, provided, of course, that there is a reasonable source of funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163521	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163538	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. The area of housing is a very important area, since it applies to children and young people's upbringing conditions, their well-being, care and development. That is why last week we also helped to make this agreement on the rate reserve, where we have just made an agreement that we will now examine the entire placement area. We do not, therefore, think that we should have more parallel processes going on, and that is actually why we cannot support this motion for a resolution, because of our agreement last week on the rate reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163624	A brief remark was made by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163627	Then I have to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that what we agreed in the agreement we made around the reserve is adequate or whether the rapporteur believes that something more is needed. Now it is the case that the Minister has also said that something more is needed, and then you can always make an amendment, and you can also write a report to add what exactly is needed. After all, this motion for a resolution raises a number of questions, as has already been mentioned. on children and young people's committees are the right ones to make these decisions on how to ensure the quality and legal certainty of these cases. So this is very broad. It is also, in terms of how we ensure that those who are dealing with these matters are professionally dressed for it. So just to shoot down what the Conservative rapporteur is doing, I do not think it is fair, because we could, of course, achieve a joint report in which even more could be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163731	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163732	It is now the case that it was Thursday that we reached an agreement on the rate reserve, and it is precisely in the agreement that we have to examine the location area, and we set aside some money for that. We are faithful to that agreement. We'd like to check the location area. We certainly think that this is important. And then we'd like to see the results of that investigation once we've got the area covered. So we have to see what that cover gives rise to when we have the results in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163803-2	So I have to ask the rapporteur: when you are going to have coal digging this area, which players do the rapporteur think it is important to be consulted and should make recommendations for those changes? One is that the KL investigates itself and that some recommendations can be obtained from the legal certainty unit, but we all lack the actors in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163838	Well, of course, I think it is important for us to involve some of the interested parties in this area in our investigation. One can say that KL is of course also a party it is important to hear. After all, it is their job to say what to say about case managers who sit out in the municipalities with the cases, so they also have a finger on the pulse in relation to what is going on. So it is of course relevant to involve those parties who are in contact with the entire enclosure area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163908	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163914	Thank you. We also supported this resolution, the last time it was up, and we look forward to starting looking into this area. What I asked the Minister when the Minister was up here before was about the study which, among other things, took place. will be launched through the agreement we have on the reserve, in fact examining what DF wants, plus something more. The Minister confirmed this, and I think we should actually go that way. I think that is the simplest thing. So we are looking forward to a study, but we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126163949	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Mette Theisen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164008	I'm still Thiesen! Now I'm learning, I promise!). It's so good. First of all, as several others have done, I would very much like to commend the Danish People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think it is really, really good that we should focus on this area, and the resolution we are dealing with here is, of course, a wide-ranging excavation, so it is not just a matter of the fact that there are some relevant actors who need to investigate themselves. It's kind of about us looking at whether this area is screwed up properly. I think that there are some really important points here, both with regard to ensuring legal certainty, of course, but also with regard to whether it is true that it is a children and young people's committee and therefore a local politician who can be drawn into taking some urgent decisions that are quite far-reaching. How and how else to screw it up, I think is really relevant to look at. So new citizens can support this motion for a resolution, and in general we look forward to a coal pit in this area, so that we can hopefully create a much better system and a much better legal situation for those concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164128	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164137	Thank you. I have hurriedly written my rapporteur's speech because I found the rapporteur's speech, which was so inspiring by the rapporteur, Mrs Anni Matthiesen. What the rapporteur of the Left said was that perhaps there is some need to go completely new ways in this area or to think completely new, because it is an area where perhaps in reality there is a need for more thinking than is usually the case in the ordinary legislative mill when it is painting. What is basically the problem in this area is that we are in a situation where we want a political and bureaucratic system to operate in some way humanely. I believe, basically, that political and bureaucratic systems find it rather difficult to function humanly and in a way that is seen as human and kind, if I may say so. It may sound a little formal, but it is one of the reasons why bureaucracy per person is so much. definition cannot produce what is formally to be described as a service. Quite formally, placing children is a kind of service, that is, an activity characterised by the fact that production and consumption are two sides of the same coin. And the test you learn about in the teaching, when learning about the difference between production and service, is whether you can produce for a warehouse. A safe childhood is not something you can produce at some point and place in a warehouse for later use. Sometimes it could be nice when you have long working days, but that's not how it is. It arises from concrete actions and cannot be saved for later. According to their very functioning, therefore, bureaucracies cannot really produce services. They cannot do so because they cannot cope with complexity at the level required by service production, nor can they reduce complexity to the extent necessary for service production. That's why these many, many mistakes occur. They arise as a result of complexity. That is also why it goes wrong to formally describe our tax system so that a computer can understand it. A computer is very little intelligent, so of course it cannot understand the tax system because it is so complex. We have seen many boring examples of this; I shall not tire the Folketing. So service cannot be produced on the basis of rigid rules, which must be obeyed at any time, and one cannot produce it by finding production in its individual parts and defining all sub-elements with a precision of five decimal places or that corresponding to five decimal places. You can imagine that a restaurant would be run by a bureaucracy. Then you had to wait to go to the restaurant, and the starter, main course and dessert would be sharply divided specialties that never communicated together, and no one would communicate with the poor waiters who were supposed to bring the food to the customers. It would be a terrible experience. If you want to see what is wrong with politics and bureaucracy, you can go to the website called www.socialekorder.dk. It is at one and the same time one of the most fascinating projects I know about where all sorts of common concepts like eating and drinking and walking and standing are defined by very, very wise people who have spent a very long time defining what it means to eat and drink etc. It is deeply fascinating and, at the same time, it is also deeply meaningless, because it shows a bureaucracy that makes every effort to accomplish its task, but which never ends up because the direction is wrong. That is why bureaucracy cannot produce places which all parties consider to be meaningful and which are, in some sense, successful. That is what I thought was so inspiring by the rapporteur's speech I heard just now, because there is a need to go further and find new organisational forms. It has already been decided last week to look through the area and we think that this is very positive, so I hope that the experts who are going to look at all this have the courage to find out something similar to what I have just said. I do not think so, but as motion for a resolution B 8 is a kind of duplication of initiatives already under way, we cannot therefore support this duplication. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164619	There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164622	Now the rapporteur says duplicate. This resolution has been tabled a very long time ago, even before we reached an agreement on the reserve. I would really like to hear what the Liberal Alliance is thinking about this area. What does the Liberal Alliance think it takes when we see the flaws that are in this whole area? Among other things: Frederiksberg was also in the fall here. What does the Liberal Alliance think about that? What are the tools to be used? And does the Liberal Alliance think more about family treatment? Was it a way to go simply to strengthen family treatment for vulnerable children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164714	I would like to wait for a definitive answer until we have received this study which is now under way. But I would also like to answer such a really honest and not tactical question. I don't think you can save this area with patch solutions and small steps. I believe that reforms are needed. Like me, I also believe that the only thing that can save the tax administration is a tax reform, and so it is not a reform of how high tax rates are. It is a reform of how we tax because the tax system is in difficulties because it is too complex. I think this area is also in difficulty because it is complex. So it has to be resolved in some way or other that is not as bureaucratic and complex as the one we have today, because an ordinary good childhood or the closest thing you can get to it is drowning in bureaucracy and square rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164805	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164806	On that comparison with tax, I think that these are the areas, and not the children, that are compared with money in the tax system. Enough about that. So the rapporteur himself does not have any proposals on how to qualify this area, how to create quality assurance in matters, how to strengthen the case management, how to possibly look at continuing training some social workers who gain expertise in this area, or how to ensure that there is quality assurance in a child conversation, so that it is not just putting a fly leg, but also thinking about how to hold a child conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164845	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164845-2	What I compared before was complexity, and what I wanted to highlight were the problems that in themselves are bound to complexity. I'm just a poor politician, and we can't know everything, so although I can point out that there are some problems, it's just necessary to get some professionals in there to look at how to make these things work better. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126164936	Thank you for that, President. This resolution is, of course, an amended version of a proposal from the last session, in which a majority was ready to support it, but unfortunately it did not reach a vote because of the elections. In the Danish People's Party, we have fought to improve conditions for children and their families, as well as networks and not least the foster families. During the last debate I told about a family in Roskilde, where Katrine and Kevin mistakenly had their child removed from the maternity ward and who had their child back 1⁄2 years later. In today's debate I have also told of a boy who was about to be removed from his foster parents and instead had to go to an institution in Næstved to decide which neither he nor the foster parents nor his biological father supported. At no time in that process was the boy heard in the matter. The municipalities must do everything possible to ensure stability around the child, and then threats to remove a child are quite wrong. The foster family was brave. They stood out in the press. We summoned the then minister in consultation and had the move averted. First of all, it should not be the case that we have to stand up in the press to support a grotesque cause, because it is not without costs for those involved. In addition, time and again, we can still hear and read about children not being involved, even if it is expressly provided for in the law. So, Minister, how will the Minister ensure that the municipalities comply with our law? Does the Minister think there is a need for sanctions? In the Danish People's Party we have long fought for a coal excavation of the area, and this means to us in the Danish People's Party that it is not only the authorities who have to investigate themselves. This, of course, means involving them: the children, the families, the organisations and others, who can all make us more aware of how to ensure the quality of these cases and how to strengthen legal certainty. In addition, it is also a question of collecting the knowledge we already have in this area. What is happening today in the housing area is system failure and the area is sailing. That needs to be corrected. DF considers that a municipality that makes many errors in the case-file should be able to be imposed on a task force. You shouldn't be able to say no to that. Right now it is Frederiksberg Municipality that is in the spotlight, and when the City Council came to a municipal council meeting on Monday 11 November 2019, the City Council met with a call from a frustrated citizen in the municipality. The woman had her daughter placed in 2014, and this placement was declared illegal by the City Court in May 2019. But the municipality of Frederiksberg is just a municipality among many. In the municipality's press release, they were so naughty to write that there was no evidence that children or families had suffered harm. Professor of Social Law Kirsten Ketscher told the newspaper that it is a large and resourceful municipality which seems to have exposed children and parents to a systematic failure. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that we should ensure that a child's conversation not only becomes a flybone, but that the child and the young person must of course always have informed their rights, including the right to possess. It is also something that lags tremendously. Children over 12 years of age should know that if they wish to complain that they have to be repatriated, the appeal has suspensory effect. The Ombudsman has made this clear in his statement on four cases of return from 7 November 2018, which can be found on the Ombudsman's website. When children are heard, this must be done in a way that allows the child to understand what the matter is and the procedure should be considerate. This is a key message in a specific case of information, which the Ombudsman has also examined. I also think that it should be considered whether it is good enough that children of 12 years of age are entitled to a lawyer in forced labour proceedings. It may be that we have to look from in here to see if we should lower the age limit. And there are several people who have mentioned earlier today Justitia's report, which describes that for example. In 2017, 54 per cent was spent. of the decisions complained of have been reversed. We have also debated that three to five times a week, the National Association of Autism receives requests from families who find that their municipality is threatening the placement of their child. And it is not only parents who have children with autism who experience this. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that the placement area should be culled and that a group of experts should examine how legal certainty for children, parents, foster parents and the child's network should also be ensured and how the quality of the procedure and exercise of authority is ensured, including whether the case workers have a sufficiently high professional level and whether children and young people's committees are the right ones to make decisions, and we have proposed that the expert group should be broadly composed of professionals. We in the Danish People's Party are deeply concerned about what is going on here in the field of placement, which is why we have time and again raised these concerns to several ministers.• The current Minister for Social Affairs is just one of many debates about the child's reform and several consultations, and just a little has it helped; the area continues to sail. Then there is also today, which we consider to be extremely important to focus on in this area, and that is to make improvements precisely in relation to families, foster families and the network. For what I see time and time again as the social rapporteur in these inquiries is that there is simply a lack of involvement, a lack of consultation, section 50 studies, which are filled with errors, lack of action plans, yes, a lack of child conversations, and that is also in relation to the network area. We also often find that there is a grandparent who is denied networking or deprived of the placement of his foster child, his granddaughter, and that the granddaughter must no longer be there. Then it happens that there is no one at all who weighs what is called the attachment, that a child has an attachment to the places that the child is. So, if you've lived with a foster family or a grandparent, you have a connection to the place and to the relationship you've built up, and that's also something that's being looked at pretty much. Unfortunately, we also find that early action is not being implemented quickly enough or that it is not being implemented at all, in other words in relation to the prevention clause, lack of quality assurance in the cases, and that family members are also being denied network care, and those we hear about that should be borne in mind are those who are resourceful, those who come forward, those who can tell their stories. When you read "Swiss of Children in Denmark" from the Children's Terms and Conditions and the TrygFonden, it's just troubling reading. For example: every other child aged 11 to 17 says that they are not taken on board in relation to their location. Then I just have to say that I think it is extremely important that we ensure proper action today and offer the help that is needed. After all, we all experience that when we stand and be parents, something happens in our lives, and that there are a lot of emotions. There is a lot of uncertainty that comes with it when you have a child, and there you also have to take action with help and support on the challenges you have. I am sometimes asked that, for example, people should be asked: has had a postpartum depression and that you may have had a baby removed, and when you are upstairs, you cannot bring the child back home. So I think this area needs so much review. I think it has to be said that we have had a very good debate today.Thank you for the debate.And I can also say to Enhedslisten that the reason why we had money placed in the pool was precisely to focus on the fact that there should be a coal excavation in this area. And thank you for your support for the new citizens who fully support this proposal. I do not think that one excludes the other. We have taken some initiatives in the reserve and it is true that we in the Danish People's Party said that we should have looked into this area. Because I knew that if we were to deal with this proposal in the House at some point, we would be at risk of having it voted down, and that is why we thought that it would be better to have something in the reserve, that we would have a good and thorough examination of this area, that we, as politicians, should get a number of recommendations from those that it also concerns, and that we should also gather the knowledge that exists today. Because there are studies, and at the moment we are awaiting a study from the Ankestyrelsen, because what we are seeing is that they say that you cannot see the child because it is not for the benefit of the child. So now there is a study which we are awaiting here and the minister has been on, so I cannot even ask when that study is also available so we get all this knowledge collected and simply get something done about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126165946	There is a brief comment. Trine Torp, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126165948	Thank you. Since it is the case that all the parties in the Folketing actually agree to look at this area and take it seriously, including some of the problems there are, and some of the places where we really need to discuss whether we have arranged ourselves properly, and whether the legislation is exactly as it should be, does it not worry the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party that we are going to do something that is either parallel processes or confuses the picture even more, so that we do not actually have a systematic investigation because we are doing a little here and there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170026	But now I think it's kind of a bad excuse, that because you've taken a little initiative and turned a little keys, you can't do any more. But yes, I would say to the rapporteur that I am deeply concerned about this whole area. I have to say. I think that the system is failing the children, the families and the network... those who are in it... and I think it's been going on so long... that it's just before you can't be in yourself anymore because of what's happening out there in the world we live in. That is why we have an obligation to clean up this area, and I am very pleased that all parties are of course in agreement with it. In this way we can, of course, make one step along the way, and then we will have to see when there are some recommendations, what we need to screw up. Because time and again we hear that the legislation is good, but it is about the administration of the legislation. So that's the whole challenge with regard to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170127	Trine Torp? Then we thank the rapporteur very much. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Internal Market. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170154	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170212	Thank you for that, President. About L 58: We have seen too many examples of financial crime and money laundering in recent years. It is bad for peace, security, the cohesion of our world and for our confidence in the financial system. This has far-reaching security implications, because when criminals need to launder money, yes, it may be because they come from drug trafficking or because they need to be used to finance terrorism. If we succeed in curbing the opportunities for money laundering, then we are well on our way to solving a number of other problems too. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing and to strengthen the supervisory capacity of the FSA with the financial sector, but also to provide access to issuing administrative fines for infringements of the law on money laundering, and also to appoint an expert who, for a specified period of time, can follow the day-to-day operation of the institutions with a view to identifying possible risks to financial crime. The Act also provides for the possibility of temporarily imposing a partial or total ban on the admission of new customer relationships where a serious breach of key money laundering rules has been found in the entity. These are a number of stricter sanctions which can help to ensure that the fight against money laundering and other financial crime is taken more seriously and given priority in the financial sector. This bill is in stark contrast to what was practiced in 2007, when I was also the business rapporteur. During that period, the blind eye was turned. The belief that the market would regulate itself was almost unlimited. Unfortunately, posterity has shown that this blind faith did not last, and we have seen a series of unfortunate or almost scandalous events. In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome the initiatives to ensure goodness, so that ordinary workers can pay their taxes with pleasure, in confidence that everyone else will also be able to give as much as possible so that everyone can enjoy as they need. And as politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that everyone, both private individuals and companies, actually meets that expectation. Scandalous cases have put the social contract under pressure, and in the years we look into, the social contract is something that we are going to deal with because we risk losing our unique trust-based social model on the floor. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party think that this bill contains some very good tactics that are moving in the right direction. The bill is based on a broad political agreement involving both the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Social Democratic Party. It has been pointed out that the FSA's powers to issue fines will go farther. I think we should take that into account, but we have a responsibility to take action in this area and to combat financial crime, and basically I am confident that the FSA will be able to fulfil this task with respect for all the companies that are fulfilling their social responsibilities. In addition, I note that the consulted parties have generally been in favour of the content of the legislative proposal. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170601	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126170607	Thank you. I agree with the description that we are generally a trust society in Denmark, and that also means that when that trust is then broken, we must take tough action. We have indeed witnessed, not only here at home, but also globally, violent scandals in relation to money laundering, where unscrupulous criminals have moved billions of dollars across national borders. It is money to finance terrorism, and it is money earned from criminal activities, money earned from drugs and other things that have been washed white in ingenious constructions by strange corporations, money that has been moved from one country to another through strange company structures, and tax havens have also been inside and much more. Of course, we have not been sitting around passively. For a number of years we have taken a series of initiatives so that as a society we can be much better equipped in the fight against money laundering, in the fight against cross-border crime, in the fight against terrorist financing and in the fight against criminals, which abuse a global system where, of course, it is also possible for citizens and businesses to move money cross-border and cross-border. This kind of thing helps to make us a prosperous society, but when someone abuses that trust, we have to strike down hard. That is why we also made a broad political agreement back in March under the previous government, the VLAK government, an agreement that has been followed up with legislation, and now I believe that these are the last elements of the agreement that we are implementing and which ensure that the legislation is in place. This, as the Socialist rapporteur rightly said, provides for the possibility of issuing administrative fines so that, where the case is clear and the accused company agrees, it can be settled quickly by means of administrative fines. If there is disagreement, the matter can of course be brought before the courts. The financial undertakings' obligation to provide information to the Financial Supervisory Authority is extended. It allows the FSA to appoint an expert to monitor the day-to-day operation of an undertaking where there is a risk of financial crime. The Whistleblower regime is being strengthened by a ban on secrecy clauses. There will also be a direct opportunity to stop new customer relationships if the FSA detects serious violations of key money laundering rules in a company. There will be increased criminal liability for supplying incorrect information to the FSA. The limitation period for serious infringements of the law on money laundering is extended from 5 years to 10 years. Appropriateness and integrity requirements are also introduced for the FSA's Board of Directors in line with the fit and proper requirements that apply to financial undertakings. Finally, elements of both the 4th and 5th Money Laundering Directives are implemented so that the setup around the Whitewash Secretariat and the way information is exchanged, etc. Following the common rules we have in the area of the European Union, and there are particular reasons for doing so in this area, because of course many of these things we have to hit hard here at home, and we have to make sure that the Danish rules are in order, but much of this also requires us to work together strongly internationally in order to get rid of this evil. So, of course, we support the agreement that we ourselves have been involved in, because we in the Left are concerned that honest businesses and honest citizens must be able to act securely in the financial sector, and we, as a society, must also show that those who do not know how to stay within the framework of the law are being severely punished. We also strengthen supervisory capabilities and ensure that as a society we equip ourselves to the best possible extent in the fight against money laundering, in the fight against terrorist financing, in the fight against unscrupulous criminals, and this is a very good example of how widely we in the Danish Parliament act, and I believe that the Danes expect of us too. Of course, we support it on the Left side.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171039	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so that is why it is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171047	Well, there must be about the same reasons on the part of the Danish People's Party that we want to support this bill. It is true, as has been said, that this is a legislative proposal which follows up an agreement from back in March this year, when in relatively broad circles, at least throughout the financial stability circle, agreement was reached on some additional rules, in relation to what competences we will give, among other things. our Financial Supervision to enforce the controls that are, of course, needed, and also to sanction any financial institutions that might want to embark on the grey market in relation to making money dishonestly. That is why it is today that we are dealing with these changes to the law on money laundering and also the law on financial services. The FSA will be able to issue administrative fines. And we in the Danish People's Party actually think that it is fine that you get better sanctions and that in this way you actually have the opportunity to act faster and more effectively than you have been able to do in the past if these types of examples should become reality. The FSA will also be able to appoint and appoint temporary representatives to senior positions in banks. It is, of course, over a period of time; it is not something for which they must have an eternity. However, it is important to have this stricter sanction option in order to identify any risks associated with the operation of the banks. And turns out to be places where you've done it, the FSA gets this very extraordinary opportunity to intervene as well. This is something some have thought is going very far, and I am sure it is, but it should not change the fact that the Danish People's Party believes that it is unfortunately a necessary sanction and a necessary opportunity to make it less attractive and at least less easy to enter illegal banking. The FSA will also be able to temporarily order a company not to take up new customers, in whole or in part, especially corporate customers, if there are any serious infringements found in relation to the core parts of the money laundering legislation that we have. At the same time, the Minister has taken the opportunity to put a few parts of the EU's money laundering directive, from both the 4th and 5th money laundering directives, into this bill. We don't think it's right to do it that way. We believe that when there is conciliation in some areas, i.e. when we make agreements, other legislative initiatives should not be involved in the same legislative proposal, because it is, in fact, to confuse two different things: something that is conciliation and something that is not. That is a bad custom, and it was also under the previous government; I have said it sometimes too, but it is just as if you do not really want to understand that part of the criticism. So I hope this is the last time we have seen this in the Folketing, at least in relation to the legislative proposals that I have before me. At least I'll keep an eye on it, I promise you. We have previously made many bank packages here in the Danish Parliament to save the chestnuts out of financial crises, etc. We have provided joint guarantees for the whole of society and for the citizens of this country in connection with the first bank packages. It was quite, quite large bills of exchange that were drawn on citizens and companies' confidence in the financial system. I guess we've had six or seven bank packages by now, and afterwards we've started making a series of money laundering packages instead of, among other things. on the basis of the examples we have seen with Danske Bank and money laundering in Estonia. We have also had the Nordea case with exchange agencies, where there has been a great plaza on Amagerbrogade for very, very dubious exchange agencies, and where the money came in sports bags, and I don't know what. It's a bad thing. We've had a profit case that's still running away. And all of this has cost us confidence in our financial institutions, but it has also cost society a lot of money, for example. I've had to do a lot of work with the DA, who's hired people to save the chestnuts. It is fair enough that we put part of this bill in the financial institutions themselves, and it is also fair that we pay fines to those who have violated them. We very much welcome this in the Danish People's Party. But we would also like to strike a blow that it is important that the overall bar is that there should be a culture with a high degree of credibility in relation to the Danish financial institutions, and this is only achieved by having credible and restrictive legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Katrine Robsøe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171610	Thank you. I will try to be brief. After all, the draft law is part of an agreement that we in the Radical Left have been involved in in order to strengthen the fight against financial crime, and that is also the implementation of the fourth and fifth money laundering directives. There is no doubt that, unfortunately, we have seen absurd cases of financial crime, which is why we also need to intervene. We cannot just watch while Danish companies and the financial system can be abused for money laundering and terrorist financing. The particular position of our banks and the confidence we should be able to have in our financial institutions have suffered a break. Restoring this trust is, of course, a responsibility of the sector itself, but we, as a society, also need to put up a defence to protect us. That is the task with which I see this bill. It is therefore of course also important for us to provide the FSA with the tools it needs in order for it to work both efficiently and quickly. I do not want to go through the draft law and it has been done very well by several of the previous rapporteurs, but I just want to say that we support the agreement that we have been involved in ourselves and the overall legislative proposal, but I do need to look into the concerns expressed by several interested parties during the hearing on the legal certainty of administrative fines, and I look forward to that in the course of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171805	First of all, I must say that the usual rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, did not have the opportunity to participate. I think it was something about some financial law negotiations, so I got the job of pumping the bike. Market forces are good at many things, but they are better when we curb the worst fluctuations. Greed should not be allowed to destroy society. Trust has been shattered in relation to the financial sector, and it is our job now to help pick up the pieces by strengthening the fight against financial crime. For what we have seen has been a robber- and casino capitalism for full blowout. SF believes that social representatives should enter the banks and step the front of the management channels. The part of the bill which deals with the right of the FSA to appoint experts who can follow the day-to-day operation of the banks is as far as we could get in this process. And on a good day, it is also what we can call representatives of society who have to control the practice and culture of the banks. Moreover, the ability of supervision to issue fines is a victory for the desire to hold onto the collar of banks so that they do not go and get bad ideas and unfortunate comrades.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171939	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and therefore it is now Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126171942	This is a really important area that we in the Enhedslisten are happy to have moved on. Financial supervision of stronger bishops is one of the things that is needed in order to deter and prevent criminals from drooping the economy and breaking down society and breaking the trust that has been talked about in the past and milking our society. To tighten up the requirements for companies and give the FSA more powers is sensible, and that is why we naturally support the proposal. Then I hope that the Minister will also stick to it and help ensure and keep a close eye on the fact that, with the new opportunities for a broader approach to crime prevention in the financial sector, the financial means and competences to carry out the task are that you are just as well equipped for it and I am sure that will happen. I think there are several measures that show that we are going in the right direction in relation to this, so praise the Minister for that work. We also think that the new opportunity to appoint an expert to monitor the day-to-day operation of companies where there is an estimated risk of financial crime is positive. And in this respect, I would like briefly to note that we have long been working to reinstate the law on social representatives on the boards of financial companies • social representatives who comply with fit & property requirements and who have the opportunity to inform the minister or authorities if they discover suspicious circumstances. This is something that could help prevent criminal or irresponsible behaviour in the financial sector, and it would be another good step towards a responsible financial sector that does not serve the few but serves the majority. In fact, until 2012, it was a legal requirement that there should be a public social representative on the boards of financial institutions, mortgage institutions and insurance companies. A modified system which, unlike the old system, allows the representative to inform the authorities would be highly congratulating on the present measures. I look forward to further work on the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172159	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172213	Thank you for the floor. Trust may be our most important and valuable raw material. Trust is certainly important social capital, and our culture of trust is a vital condition for the efficient and caring functioning of our society. We must and must therefore insist that financial transactions are also carried out in a proper and fair manner ■ that relations are characterised by cooperation, reciprocity and obligations. We will not accept bandits who try to undermine and exploit our trust with financial crime and terrorism, in other words those who clearly believe that money laundering is the new variety. We cannot and will not accept fraud, and under no circumstances will we accept people who participate in or condone financial crime for huge billions of dollars. It is about Denmark's security and we must take action on all fronts. Together with a business group, I had the pleasure of visiting NATO in the spring, and here I received an update from the Danish NATO Ambassador, Liselotte Kjærsgaard Plesner. The world has truly gone cyber • also when it comes to war and crime. That means, of course, that we must keep up. We need to cybe up, and we need to strike down hard, directly following the actions and work of the previous government. It is a job which, of course, is far from complete and perhaps never will be done, but I think we can agree entirely that in that work, regardless of party color, it also sounds like we have to beat it down hard. L 58 is therefore the expected implementation of a previous policy agreement and the implementation of the Fourth and Fifth Money Laundering Directives. There's two leads in the deal. One is to strengthen the FSA so that they can partly issue some fines, partly to follow the day-to-day operation of a company, and partly to temporarily stop some new customer relationships in a company; that sounds very reasonable. And the second clue is, of course, about tightening the sanctions... yes, thank you! Finally, I would like to mention that, in the work of the committee, we must of course also be aware that we should not punish people who are going to make minor mistakes. Because there are a lot of rules and regulations in relation to money laundering, and companies could involuntarily violate some of them without malicious will. Then we must also make sure that the FSA can carry out the tasks and that the industry is involved in the extra costs, although here they seem to have been limited. But that is one of the things we need to look at and something that we should not burden them with. I believe that everyone in the financial sector in isolation is fully involved in this additional strengthening, but it would of course be uplifting if, at the same time, the government were to remove other burdens and financial burdens. The high level of financial crime of money laundering, the exchange of gold bullion and profit fraud, which lends billions of dollars to the treasury, is a serious crime. I think it is very good that the heard parties have been on the field and that they have played constructively. And I look forward very much to the committee work and to diving into a layer deeper than what I have been able to do for the time being, the comments alone take up 200 pages. And, of course, that's the way it has to be, because this is actually a serious thing. We need to solve the challenges together, and we need to make a joint effort, and L 58 is a really good step on the road and maybe the end of this round in relation to money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172524	Thank you very much. I should like to welcome my party leader, Uffe Elbæk, who is the business rapporteur, and say that we are voting in favour of this proposal. The aim of the proposal is to implement a series of measures to strengthen the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. With the proposal, the FSA gets among other things: the right to issue administrative fines for infringements of the law on money laundering. In addition, the FSA will be allowed to appoint an expert who may, for a specified period of time, follow the day-to-day operation of the institutions with a view to identifying possible risks to financial crime. In addition, the FSA will be able to temporarily impose a partial or total ban on the admission of new customer relationships where serious infringements of key money laundering rules have been found in the entity. In addition, the draft law contains a number of stricter sanctions that can help to ensure that the fight against money laundering and other financial crime is taken more seriously and given higher priority in the financial sector. The draft law implements the political agreement of 27 March 2019 on strengthening the fight against financial crime and also implements the 4th and 5th Money Laundering Directives on the legal framework for the activities of the Whitewash Secretariat. Since we see so many big cases of financial crime and money laundering, it goes without saying that the alternative is in favour of this proposal. And if the conciliation circle would like to do so, we would like to participate in the conciliation and help take responsibility for this incredibly important work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172709	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which is why we can move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172716	I think it is no secret that when we have to negotiate industrial policy, it is far from always that I agree with the majority or agree with the government. But when it comes to financial crime, when it comes to money laundering, I am absolutely as hard as I am in relation to every other crime. Criminal criminals need to be caught, they need to be locked up, if we can succeed with that, I'm just ruthless. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, who mentioned earlier that there are a lot of balances in this whole money laundering discussion, not on this specific proposal, which can only be supported, but on everything else that we experience in our everyday lives. And I think we're all experiencing that. My good party colleague Peter Seier Christensen was pulled into a back room the other day when he was going to sell a gold bar he's had for many years, because when you're politically active, you can't do that without someone asking where you got it and what you need it for. My own father, who is a law-abiding citizen, was called by his bank after I had been elected to the Folketing, and was asked about all sorts of relationships in his own economy. They asked him: You have a boat, what are you using it for? I use that to sail in. You have a number of cars, what are you using them for? I use them to drive. And so it went on. It has nothing to do with this, but it is just to say that you can easily get carried away with every time you hear about these openly criminal people, who are not just creative, but totally unbearable in relation to other people's money and our such legality in society, by the way. But there is also a reverse of the medal, and I hope we will take it into all the contexts where relevant. However, it is not here, so there is full support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172919	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I have the feeling that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126172927	Thank you for the floor and that is quite correct. Before the elections it was possible to collect a majority from the Danish People's Party to the Socialist People's Party on this bill. This shows how wide the parliament takes the issue of financial crime seriously, and so should we. After all, the legislative proposal we are talking about results in an agreement that was concluded in the spring. This is a bill that goes a long way. In fact, I agree with the comments made just now by Mrs Pernille Vermund on how far we really go in relation to money laundering. Of course, so should we. We are also discussing another draft law on associations and the like, and there we are trying to get the opportunity to make it clear that it does not, therefore, affect bluejacks, handball clubs or something like that. But it's really going to be a long way. I do not think, however, that things are going too far. Of course, legal certainty applies to everyone, including companies, but I think that here we find the right balance, because there must be confidence in the financial sector. And we must maintain it. Banks are leading institutions, also for the many who have a house or a pension scheme or other financial needs, and we must, of course, ensure that things take place as they should, and according to the law. We must try to prevent these terrible money laundering cases, which I really believe have shaken many people, from repeating themselves in the future. That is why, of course, we in the Liberal Alliance are still supporting the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126173124	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126173132	Thank you very much for all the comments and very positive reception of this bill all around. It was a pleasure and also, I think, appropriate, because with the bill we are in here protecting something particularly important in Danish society, something on which the Danish social model is based, namely trust and, in this case, the belief that we can count on our bank or our financial institutions. It has proved necessary to take action against money laundering, and fortunately there is broad political support for this, both in a political agreement and also here in the Danish Parliament, and I just find the opportunity to sign for this, and I would also like to pay tribute to my colleagues from the political parties for taking this as seriously as it has been done, also from the platform today. As a society, we can and must never accept that money laundering and financing of terrorism take place. It is totally unacceptable, it damages the confidence of our society and the financial system, which plays an important role, both in the economy and in Danish society at all, and it damages the international reputation of a country when it takes place. That is why it is important that we have legislation and supervision by the authorities, which are top-class and in which such a form of crime is severely hit. The aim of this bill, as several have mentioned, is to implement a series of measures that strengthen efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. With the bill, we are implementing the broad political agreement of March this year to strengthen the fight against financial crime. The draft law provides the FSA with a number of new tools to help the FSA become a stronger supervisory authority with a much more executive supervisory approach vis-à-vis financial companies. Among other things, the FSA receives: the possibility of issuing administrative fines for infringements of the law on money laundering. I think that the rapporteur of the Left was very precisely balanced, what the possibilities are and how this tool can be used, and thus also addressed some of the elements mentioned in the answers to the hearings; I thought this was very good and appropriate and this means that the FSA will be able to issue fines in complicated cases requiring a discretionary assessment. The fines will be measured according to the stricter levels of fines adopted last year. The possibility of issuing administrative fines shall support the FSA's ability to sanction infringements of the Laundering Act quickly and effectively. In addition, we allow the FSA to require a bank to temporarily stop entering new customer relationships in the event of serious violations of key money laundering rules. This is a clear incentive for companies to rapidly put an end to the infringements of the Laundering Act. In addition, the FSA will be able to appoint an expert to monitor the day-to-day operation of a financial undertaking if possible risks of financial crime have been identified in the company for a shorter period. This should strengthen the ability of the FSA to obtain information at an earlier stage that may be essential in order to determine whether there is a breach of the rules. At the same time, it must ensure that the FSA is given better opportunity to follow an undertaking's compliance with obligations. Furthermore, the legislative proposal tightens up a number of sanctions to help ensure that the fight against money laundering and other financial crime is taken more seriously and given higher priority in the financial sector. We raise, among other things. the criminal framework for the provision of false or misleading information. At the same time, we are extending the limitation period so that serious infringements can be punished for up to 10 years after they have taken place. The legislative proposal also introduces the necessary provisions to enable an operational regulatory forum to be established in the field of money laundering. The Operational Authority Forum shall coordinate the investigation of criminals who launder money and use it for terrorist purposes. In this way, the authorities will have a practical platform where they can share information with each other, cooperate in dealing with cross-cutting cases and share knowledge about developments in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing. So in those words, I just want to look forward to a good committee reading. However, I would like to touch briefly on what my colleague from the Danish People's Party says about having both conciliation material and directive material in the same legislative proposal. In this case, of course, both relate to the same area of control and prevention of money laundering and we are obliged to implement both the 4th and 5th money laundering directives. That's why the assessment was that it was natural to put this together in one bill. This also takes account of the fact that far too many different legislative proposals should not be brought forward here in the Folketing. So that is the concern that has been expressed here. With regard to this issue of administrative fines and what is being presented in the hearings, I would just like to say to my good colleague, Mr President. Orla Hav, that it is, of course, a particularly hard tool, which also has to address a particularly tough form of financial crime. I think that I would like to point out in the first place that the consultation note gives very good answers to how it can be used. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen also mentioned some of the boundaries here. But it has actually been a very good and balanced process and, in addition to referring to this consultation note, I would very much like to support the fact that a few more words will be added to the committee's work so that it may become more understandable what this opportunity can mean and where its limitations are. But again, I would like to thank you for your positive support in this Chamber. I look forward to the work of the committee with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126173814	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191126173829	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 November 2019 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
