ParlaMint-DK_20191022100150	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 38 (Proposal for a law amending the law on Danish citizenship and the law on foreigners. Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 13 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on aid for the relief of parents of children with disabilities during temporary stays abroad. ) Jane Heitmann (V), Karina Adsbøl (DF) and Per Larsen (KF): Request no. F 9 (What can the Minister say about the government's fiscal priorities for the dementia area and the continuation of the existing dementia action plan? ) Martin Lidegaard (RV), Annette Lind (S), Michael Aastrup Jensen (V), Søren Espersen (DF), Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), Eva Flyvholm (EL), Nase Khader (KF), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (LA): Request no. F 10 (What can the government say about the follow-up to the war investigation?•Why did Denmark go to war?•? ) The Legal Affairs Committee has delivered: Report and recommendation on the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report for the year 2018. B 12). The report and the recommendation will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The Committee on Legal Affairs has delivered: Report and recommendation on the election of the temporary Ombudsman of the Folketing. B 14). The report and the recommendation will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. The titles of the notified cases will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100312	Member of the Folketing Torsten Gejl (ALT) has applied for leave from 22 October 2019 and members of the Folketing Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Marie Krarup (DF) and Halime Oguz (SF) have all applied for leave from 30 October 2019 and all members' leave is cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 (a). If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100358	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Alternative in the Østjyllands Storkreds, Mira Issa Bloch, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 22 October 2019 on the occasion of Torsten Gejl's leave. I have received the recommendation that the second deputy of the Danish People's Party in Fyns Storkreds, Carsten Kudsk, be approved as a temporary member of the Danish Parliament from 30 October 2019 on the occasion of Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that she does not wish to join this leave. I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Danish People's Party in the South Jutland Storkreds, Susanne Eilersen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 30 October 2019 on the occasion of Marie Krarup's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Socialist People's Party in Copenhagen's Storkreds, Balder Mørk Andersen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing from 30 October 2019 on the occasion of Halime Oguz. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100455	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 112 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100528	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100610	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022100628	Thank you. I have looked forward to the debate, although one could, of course, polemically object that perhaps we could have had a better debate at a higher level if the large opposition party had put forward a genuine economic policy that we could debate, but let us now stay away from the polemic and go straight to the facts. The Social Democratic Party and the government's first draft Finance Bill are called "Bellowship first " security, trust and a green future. The financial bill has welfare first, because it is our most important message. We put welfare first. On 29 November 2016, Politiken wrote the story that the head of the clinic at the National Hospital's maternity ward, Chief Doctor Morten Hedegaard, had resigned in protest of conditions in the maternity ward. For 14 years, the Clinic Manager at Rigshospitalet had probably had the most prestigious job that an obstetrician could have in this country. Now he said stop. Today Morten Hedegaard has his own private maternity clinic on Østerbro. Morten Hedegaard turned his back on our public health services because he could no longer vouch for the quality, or as Morten Hedegaard himself said: "Those famous two percent, it has been hard. When you have had a production company and say that you have to make it two percent cheaper, many will try to tighten up so that the first few years can be done. However, when one's savings inventory is about to be used, it becomes increasingly intransigent. ▪ The history of the departure of the Clinic Manager led to a national debate on our healthcare and on the economy of our healthcare, but it did not lead to the former government changing course. Welfare remained underfunded and therefore the challenges of the public welfare sector did not limit itself to hospitals either. Because even if it does of course give much more debate, when the obstetrician at the country's foremost hospital, the Rigshospitalet, says stop, it is actually just as disturbing when teacher and trust representative Birgitte Nørgaard at Nørre-Snede School finds that the savings cause such marked deterioration that she says stop, or when Annette Lukas, who is a social and health worker for almost 25 years in Assen's Municipality, does the same for the same reasons. That is why it is time to give priority to welfare, and that is why, with the economic agreements for next year, both the regions and the municipalities, and hence the close well-being that we are talking about, the government also gave the greatest economic boost in ten years and the greatest economic boost since the financial crisis. That is why, with the draft Finance Act, we are now giving priority first and foremost to our welfare society. Are we achieving our ambitions for the welfare society? The honest answer is no, but we are taking the first important step. We are lifting health so that it will be possible to recruit more healthcare professionals and employ 1,000 more nurses. We're gonna set up 0.5 billion. kr. We are calling for a change in the priorities of the educational institutions; we are raising the quality of vocational training. We will restore confidence in the tax system so that we also have secure funding for our welfare societies in the future. We can then add to this the negotiating reserve of 2.1 billion. kr., which we have an ambition to spend on welfare. For example, it could be on minimum standards, on education, on the green field or on culture. When the government chooses to invest in welfare, we invest in the benefits of economic times, for there are probably more of us who are happy and benefiting from a good welfare society than there are people for whom it makes the greatest difference that the price of Lamborghini or Bugatti is set a little lower, even though it was high on the wish list of the former Minister of Business. Denmark is a lovely country, but as the Prime Minister also said in his opening speech, confidence breaks. Security doesn't embrace everyone. We have so much to watch out for. We have so much going well. But it must never be an excuse for not looking where everything is not as it should be. Although the young girls and boys may be able to walk alone, yet safe home from high school parties at the Gammel Hellerup High School, it does not mean that we have to talk less about it when the same does not apply to the young people in Ishøj. Security must apply to everyone. We will not accept that shootings or even bomb blasts will be everyday. We will not accept that there are areas in Denmark where the agenda is set by criminals and not by the authorities, and that is why it is a priority in the draft budget that we strengthen the police. The government is selling 1.2 billion dollars. kr. to the police next year. That's 200 million. kr. more than this year, and that means that we can continue temporary border controls, that means that we can maintain the fight against terrorism, and that means that next year we will be able to include 150 more police students. Security must apply to everyone, everywhere and throughout the country. Will we achieve that with the Finance Act? The honest answer is no, but we're getting closer to taking the first important step. The election speech was green. The green agenda is now actually so strong that even the large opposition party, which a few years ago in the government would cancel the idea of a 40-percent reduction in Danish greenhouse gases, and which also started last government period by cutting heavily in energy research, is now ready with support to reduce emissions by 70%. in 2030. I do not have to ironize more about the Left's turning point, because it is in fact the case that the climate change that we have to deal with is far too important for trench warfare. For the government, therefore, it is also a priority that we should now, as the first in the autumn, reach a consensus, and I would like to see a broad consensus, which should, of course, be a narrow matter with the many green programme declarations made by the parties on the Climate Act, which should raise our historically ambitious emission targets to law. The negotiations will then begin on a real action plan to put concrete initiatives into the sea so that we can translate the Climate Act into real emission restrictions. This work does not, of course, mean that the financial law of the year does not also play a decisive role in relation to the climate effort, it does, and along with the work on the new green arithmetic models, Denmark shows that it has got a new cashier • a green cashier. The government, with its draft Finance Bill, is placing 2.1 billion on the line. kr. to a new green direction. We double the money for green research, we take action against plastic pollution, and then we earmark 600 million. kr. for green development aid. Are we achieving the goal of combating climate change by means of our Finance Act? Here is the honest answer, perhaps not so surprisingly, also no, but we are taking the first important step. Politics is about prioritising and choosing something over something else. We have chosen not to implement the tax concessions of the previous government, not because it would not be popular, but because we believe that welfare, education, the community and the green are more important than tax cuts. Would it be popular, for example, to reduce the tax on the employer-paid telephone, as the previous government suggested? Does the government make itself the subject of criticism from some of Denmark's richest families, who under the heading Growth in Generations have started a massive lobbying effort to get cheaper in inheritance tax than the Danes who do not inherit companies? Would the shareholders be happy if we raised the limit on the share savings account and thereby eased the tax on shareholders? The answer is yes, but the answer is that it would not make Denmark stronger. Denmark becomes stronger when we strengthen our welfare societies. Denmark becomes stronger when we strengthen Danish companies when we make Danish companies more competitive by dropping the savings on training. We create Danish jobs when we invest in the green. As one of the few countries in the world, Denmark has created equality and prosperity. There are plenty of very rich countries on the planet. There are also many countries with a marked degree of equality. On the other hand, there are virtually no countries in the world that can combine wealth with a distinct degree of equality, but there is Denmark that has managed it, and this is because of our welfare model, our social model. That is also why, in all modesty, social democracy has always been at the forefront of the development of the welfare society. That is why, with this year's draft budget, we are giving priority to strengthening the welfare society. That is why, with this year's draft budget, we put welfare first. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101615	Thank you. The day is running in the way that first the fiscal rapporteurs have 10 minutes, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has now spent, and then there are 45 minutes to debate where I give priority to the fiscal rapporteurs. So it's first, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101631	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to know what concrete initiatives are in the government's draft budget which will make Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101645	I believe that the most damaging thing that has probably been done for Denmark's ability to create wealth and jobs is the hardest savings in education that the previous government led. Those 2-percent savings are not only important for the conditions in the maternity ward, they are also important for our ability to be competitive, because it is so absolutely crucial for Danish companies that they have access to skilled labour. That is why the proposal that I think is going to create the greatest growth in Denmark is that we drop the re-priority contribution. In addition, one could of course mention that if you went to DI's annual meeting, you could hear that skilled Danish companies actually see our historically ambitious green goals as an opportunity to take the lead in the class and thus create jobs. So I can reassure the rapporteur that we are keeping Denmark on a path where we are not only developing our welfare society but also becoming richer and creating more jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101744	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101746	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur is not yet subject to duty of truth here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It may be possible to come later. I am not the one who decides whether it should come, but is it not true that the Danish business community has criticized the financial bill for not containing proposals that make Denmark richer? I myself also had the opportunity to attend DI's annual meeting, and I must say that it was not the case that we were applauding the draft budget. Well, that's one of them. Wanted to make Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101818	When we choose to invest in welfare and education, it is clear that we do not give priority to carrying out tax cuts, as the previous government promised. We do not believe that it is possible to afford it. And does it give criticism from anyone? Yeah, of course it does. However, I note that a great many of the companies I am talking to and the companies that are interfering in the public debate are positive in that, for example, we are dropping the savings on education and that we are investing in the green.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101848	Sir. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101851	Thank you. I do not even know whether to thank you for your speech, because I was completely in doubt whether it was the Social Democracy or it was the Enhedslisten who stood on the platform. Because I understand that Danish-owned companies are bad. We need fewer of them, and we need more money for welfare. So you might ask: isn't Denmark a tax-financed society? If we are to have more welfare, we also need more private jobs. We're gonna get richer if we need more money. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really means what the rapporteur said, namely that the change of generation does not mean anything. It doesn't matter that the carpenter master will have to close because he can't generationally change his company. It doesn't matter that large Danish companies with several hundred employees are considering whether to move their production abroad when making their generational change. Does the rapporteur not think that if you want more welfare, you also have to walk on two legs? Then you have to tell me where the money's coming from. Denmark is a tax-financed society, and if we are to have more welfare, we also need to get something into tax, and this is happening in private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022101954	I think that the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur can congratulate the speech. The attentive listener will have noticed that I actually snuck in a small Danish People's Party quote, namely that there is a lot to be taken care of. It is, after all, a quotation inspired by a slogan which I know the rapporteur's party has used. So I guess there's every reason to praise the speech. The rapporteur is also right in saying that we have to walk on two legs. It is absolutely right to ask, as the rapporteur does, where the money will come from if we are to create proper conditions in our welfare societies. They must come from Danish companies that employ Danish employees who can pay taxes so that we can finance our welfare society. That is why the government's draft budget also goes on two legs. We are going to see a growth recovery next year, we are going to see that there will be falling unemployment next year, and we are going to ensure with the Finance Act that we invest in education and in the green as two examples of something that will also benefit the business community, so that in the future we can also afford to invest in a good welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102101	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102103	Thank you. But there is a difference between being a Danish-owned company and being a company that is in Denmark. With the proposal that has been put forward here, one goes against Danish-owned companies, family-owned companies. What you are doing here is moving towards having more fund-owned companies, i.e. companies that have the possibility, among other things. not to pay taxes in Denmark. Now you talk about welfare, and there is a great deal of agreement between the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party that we have a lot to be careful about, but if we do not take care of the Danish companies, we do not have a welfare society in the future either. That is why I have to say that this proposal does not sound as if it were put forward by a one-party government with a Social Democratic President. It sounds more like it was Enhedslisten who put it forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102143	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102144	In the second round I will not jump on the limp with the Enhedslisten, but stick to answering the rapporteur's questions. What the rapporteur is asking is, of course, the fact that we are withdrawing the tax relief for company heirs that the previous government carried out. I think it is important to say that if, for example, we are going to do something about it, we are going to do something about it. the economic experts, the wise men, then they say very clearly that it had no effect on the overall economy of reducing the inheritance tax on company heirs. That is why the truth is that it will not have any effect either if we roll it back so that we guarantee a single tax base when you inherit whatever you inherit.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102224	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102227	Thank you. I also noticed the many fine slogans from other parties in the rapporteur's speech, and that is all fine, but slogans like making Denmark stronger do not do it alone. Words do so not only, they are actions that need to be done, and that is why we also made a check-up on the Social Democrats' financial proposals. I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it true that there is no measurable CO2 and should you not then get it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102306	I can assure the rapporteur that we are listening, including to economists, and also to the experts who have the idea of how to ensure the green transition and ensure that our financial law actually makes a positive difference in relation to emissions. So what kind of experts do we want more of? Well, we want more of the green experts. We will strengthen green research with a brand new green research billion to strengthen green research at DTU, at GEUS, at DMI. In this way, we will have experts with greater muscles who can help us ensure that the historically ambitious objectives we have in relation to emissions can actually be translated into reality, and therefore it is my very clear conviction that with the Finance Act we will also make a positive difference and contribute to reducing emissions. Having said that, the government is a minority government, and that is why the rapporteur and the undersigned are regularly sitting next to the new green cashier and discussing how we can take further initiatives to ensure that we achieve our goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102411	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102413	All is good with green research, especially if it was actually new money, but unfortunately it is not. But we have also done another check-up, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it true that the Socialists have simply forgotten that they promised to abolish the education ceiling and to finance the abolition of training savings, that is, the savings of 290 million? kr., which the humanist and social science educations are facing here on January 1st?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102449	I had such a recurring reflection in my speech, in which I said that we are taking a first step, but that we are not going all the way, and that was to start with an honesty about the fact that there are proposals, also good proposals that we have made when we were in opposition, which cannot be implemented by the first Finance Act. We have certainly not forgotten that the education ceiling must be abolished, nor have we forgotten that the taximeter for humanities and social education is a problem, and we would very much like to solve that problem. We can, of course, discuss doing so in the context of the current Finance Act, and I will, of course, look at the negotiating reserve, but I will also have to be honest about doing things in the order we can afford.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102532	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102534	Thank you. For SF, it's really important that this finance law becomes the children's finance law, both in relation to passing on a planet that's habitable and that's like better than the one we've got ourselves, but also in relation to the conditions that we offer our children where they're right, very many hours every day, namely in the day institutions. That is why I would like to ask the Social Democratic rapporteur, who is also the governing party, what the position of the Social Democratic Party is on, how much money we have to set aside in next year's Finance Act in order to achieve minimum standards as quickly as possible, as we have promised each other, and indeed all the parents and children and educators out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102622	Thank you for the question. When I can stand here and have a budget debate, it's because my own daughter is in a crèche. That is why I also have a personal interest in ensuring that there are proper conditions. Before I went to work today, I came by the Palace Square and met these parents who have put the children and minimum standards on the agenda. I had a cake and a good talk about why it is crucial that we invest in the welfare that benefits the children. That is why I am also pleased that next year's municipal agreement will give us a boost to the local economy, because it is one of the ways of ensuring better standards. If we are to have better care for our least in our day care institutions, then the municipalities must have a proper economy. And, of course, in the years when the municipalities have been subject to annual savings, the children have suffered. That is why we want to reverse that trend now and start investing in welfare, start investing in our children. Then it is also true that we need to discuss minimum standards. We support the objective and we look forward to discussing with the SF how we can land a scheme and how far we can go with the first Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102729	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102731	Thank you. I appreciate the answer, but I have to ask again. Compared to the model we have set out in the SF, it will cost 1.6 billion. kr., when it is fully phased. We have proposed to put 1⁄2 billion. kr. to the next year rising to 1 billion. kr. the following year. That is why I would like to ask once again: so that we can live up to the promise we have made, among other things. the parents who stand out in front of Christiansborg, how much money is going to be put off next year in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102807	Well, I would like to commend SF for being one of the parties that has most persistently focused on minimum standards, and which also has a great deal of responsibility for discussing it so thoroughly in these years. When I cannot say quite specifically how much money we can raise in relation to minimum standards in this year's Finance Act, it is because we are a minority government. We have set aside a relatively large negotiating reserve. We listen to the SF, and we listen to the parents who are worried. I hope that we can find a good solution already with the first Finance Act. What we have committed ourselves to in the understanding paper is, of course, that we are implementing the minimum standards up to 2025. Of course, we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102847	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022102849	After the 2015 elections, we had a lot of discussions, too, among those who were the former opposition to the demographic move. And we had difficulty getting the Social Democratic Party to commit itself to public spending as a minimum following the demographic move. We're somewhere else today. Now the Social Democrats also believe that public consumption should at least follow the demographic trend. Now the question is, why should we not go further? We think so in the Enhedslisten and say that the growth of public consumption must follow full but if we do, for example, have to. only had had the demographic feature since the 1950s in health care, we had been able to maintain the level from the 1950s as more young and older people arrived, but we had still had a service level at the level of the 1950s. That is why the demographic move is not enough at all. We must have the prosperity-proof demographic trait that ensures that the public sector follows developments. Can it not be the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103003	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103005	I agree with the rapporteur and with the Enhedslisten that it is not enough to cover the demographic features alone. I think we need to maintain that there is one demographic feature, and that is what is defined over in the Ministry of Finance. We are covering that, but we are going to do that. It is really the strongest picture and the strongest explanation for the slow erosion of the welfare state, and that is what we need to turn now. That is why it is not enough to cover the demographic trait alone. We have to go beyond that. That is why, if you look at the overall economic consequences of the municipality agreement, the regional agreement and the financial bill, we are lifting the public economy by 1.3 per cent. Next year. It's pretty far.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103109	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103111	It is true that what the government is proposing now is more than what the previous government did. You can quickly be thankful when you've seen how miserable it was in the past. But the only thing is that if you only have the objective of being the demographic trait and not the demographic trait of prosperity, the service that the public can offer will gradually fall behind the rest of society. My example of health care and the 1950s clearly illustrates this. Should we not, as the new neutral starting point, have the full demographic move in terms of prosperity? Is this not something that we can agree to achieve as the neutral starting point in this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103150	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103152	Now, after all, I was previously accused of being one to one with the Enhedslisten, and here we can see that this is probably not quite the case anyway. I am quite sure that Enhedslisten has greater ambitions in relation to public expenditure than the Social Democracy. The Social Democratic Party wants to cover the demographic move we have promised, and we will do so. We want to increase welfare because we actually want to increase quality for the benefit of all Danes and for the benefit of our companies. But it is clear that we also have financial responsibility. We also have a responsibility to ensure that the money fits. We have a responsibility to ensure that we do not pour more wood on the fire and that we do not overheat the Danish economy, and therefore there must be a balance, and I think we have found it with the draft Finance Act. By the way, I look forward to discussing it with the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103232	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103235	Thanks for a good speech. I wish the Social Democratic Party every success in having the power of government. I would like to keep the Socialists a little firm on some of the things you said before the elections. Among other things, there were: I am therefore surprised that there are no initiatives to reduce CO2 It was also said that there would be a strict immigration policy. That is why we are surprised that, as one of the very first things to be said, we are going to accept more quota refugees. The fact that more refugees are to be welcomed is not in keeping with strict immigration policy. And then it was also said that ordinary Danes would not get tax increases, and it is very bad that it is one of the first to want to stick to the fact that ordinary Danes should be taxed by DKr 2,800. a year to have a company phone. It is quite ordinary Danes who have a company phone, and I wonder why the Social Democrats think it is necessary, because there is this huge room for manoeuvre, so these tax breaks are excused, tax increases are not necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103345	Thank you. With the last remark, I was quite worried about whether we should be overtaken by the left. Thank you for the nice opening words about my rapporteur's speech. I agree with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov in that it is urgent to meet climate change, which has a potential that can make all of our other political challenges completely superfluous. We must resolve the climate challenges, but we must also do so in a proper way. We need to ensure that the initiatives we are launching are not just a green window dressing that it does not damage our competitiveness, but that it is actually done in a proper way. That is why we take things in the order we do; first, with a climate bill to ensure that the green programme declarations and the much talk actually become a binding law, which we hope will be able to get all the parties of the Folketing behind; then we will have a broad discussion on what measures we can take to achieve our ambition. I think this is the serious way, the proper way, to do it, but I am glad that the rapporteur criticises me for not introducing social democratic policies quickly enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103452	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103455	All right, let's get back to the tax increases. In my party, Conservatives, we believe that taxes are a necessary evil. There are, of course, some expenses that have to be paid for, but we also believe that we should not collect more taxes than we need. We have a huge, huge room for manoeuvre. You have taken over an economy that is exceptionally top-of-the-line, with room for manoeuvre of about 28 billion. kr. This means that expenditure can be increased by 28 billion. kr., without the need to raise taxes, and then we wonder why the Social Democrats are playing out with a small increase in expenditure • some tax increases that are totally unnecessary, compared to the fact that there is so much money in the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103536	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103538	The truth is that the policy of the former bourgeois government in relation to the tax issue means that revenue will be reduced by 27 billion towards 2025. kr. It is just our view that the unfair tax concessions that have been granted but have not been implemented yet, we simply cannot afford. I said this very clearly in my rapporteur's speech: politics is about prioritising. We think it is more important to invest in education; we think it is more important that there is funding for the green transition; we think it is more important that there are educators for our small in the day institutions than it is to implement a tax relief on, for example, free telephones, which mainly benefit the richest.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103620	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103623	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Now you could hear that we've gotten a green cashier, and that's not just something you can appoint yourself for. This is something that must be earned, and I shall gladly help to sew a green cape to the Minister of Finance when he becomes a green cashier. There are these just over two billion, which the government says they have found for climate action. Now we can discuss from here and for the next few months how to determine whether it is new or old money? We park it; it's not suitable for this forum. However, I would like to know whether the Social Democrats are involved in the fact that we are really raising new money for the great effort that needs to be made now, when the government is also supporting at least a 70-percent reduction target by 2030. Then real money will have to be invested in real change. Are you willing to find what we in here usually call new money so that we can get on with that transformation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103719	I really want to look forward to seeing the new green box master in a green robe sewn by Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. It's gonna be big he can wear something underneath just as well as I think there's reason to praise SF for having put massive pressure on all of us in relation to minimum standards, just as I think there's reason to praise the Alternative for really kicking the green agenda right up the front of the field and ensuring that virtually all parties support that we have to make a proper and sound green transition. What is crucial then is how do we do it? Because declarations of intent and declarations of programme are not enough. We must do it out in reality before we can decorate ourselves with the fact that we have actually done something. After all, we have set aside a negotiating reserve of 2 billion. kr., which we can discuss what we need to do, including the green one, and in addition we will have the discussion when we talk about action plans in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103829	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103832	This is precisely what real action is doing in reality, and it is where I have to hear the Social Democrats whether you really mean seriously that you have set 2 billion. kr. of new or old money; but once again, this is not what the discussion is about now; it is really enough in relation to the goal we have now, namely that we need to act today in order to achieve the 70-percent reduction target by 2030, in order to achieve a net zero society, etc. Is that really the ambition: just over 2 billion? kr. for the big switch?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103906	I do not think anyone should be allowed to pretend that we are going to achieve the climate challenges with a negotiating reserve of 2.1 billion. kr., although in a historical perspective it is a major negotiating reserve. However, it is money that we can now dispose of jointly with the parties that will help to solve the task of establishing a financial law. And that's where we have to start. In addition, we come to the discussion • I think we will also come to the difficult discussion • in the spring when we have to look at options for action, action plans in relation to reducing emissions, but also look at the funding of these action plans. And I look forward to having that discussion with the parties of the Folketing. The government is also looking forward to going with the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103943	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022103946	I am so sick and tired of the squeezing that is happening to our business community. And the rapporteur also mentioned it today and insinuated that heirs of business owners are trying to let go and will drop cheaper than other heirs. And that's why I'm sorry about that phrase... nonsense. Could the rapporteur not confirm that the heirs of companies are completely equal to the heirs of employees if they wish to take out funds privately? In addition, could the rapporteur mention what public spending is in the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party, which is called 'Make good times better for everyone', i.e. the economic 2025 plan of the Social Democratic Party? What is the aim of increasing public consumption there?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104035	I would like to start by saying that I agree with the rapporteur that we should certainly not be ruthless Danish companies, nor, to that extent, foreign companies operating in Denmark. The companies are the backbone of our society, it is the companies that, through exports and through recruitments, ensure that we have tax revenue to finance the welfare society, which means that, as I think I also mentioned in my speech, we have both a distinct degree of equality and a strong welfare society. So there will be no squeezing of Danish companies from this platform as long as I stand here. Having said that, it is very clear that this is the case, and the economic wise men have also confirmed that there is a distortion in our inheritance tax when you take the inheritance tax and put it down heavily for company heirs and leave it at the original 15%. for people who inherit other things. This means that you start to wonder how to pass on your legacy, and that is not good for the economy, and that is why we want to roll back the tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104140	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104142	I take this as a confirmation that they are no different if they want to withdraw funds than heirs of employees. Then you have to stop insinuating that they are trying to be better off than others. In addition, the rapporteur does not respond to this with public consumption, but I am surprised that a financial plan can be presented shortly before the elections, which has a public consumption in it which shows an increase in public consumption. And shortly after that, the government's financial bill comes, and then suddenly we have a 1.3-percent increase in public spending. Why has the Social Democrats not just been honest with the electorate before the elections and told them what they wanted public spending to be, rather than driving with two rates?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104223	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104225	Social democracy has been crystal clear about our priorities before the elections and is now implementing them. In relation to public consumption, it is true that the financial bill is aimed at an increase in public consumption of 1.3 per cent. Next year. This is necessary if we are to restore the welfare state that has suffered badly as a consequence of the savings made by the bourgeois. In relation to the question of inheritance tax, there is only one difference after the bourgeois government introduced a tax relief for people who inherit businesses. We think this is a skewed difference, because it is primarily an advantage for the richest people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104303	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104305	Thank you. After all, we have just been through an election campaign where climate policy was quite justified, and in that election campaign we were out for many panel debates and so on. with young people where the Socialists said they wanted much more in the climate field than we in the blue parties wanted. Now comes the first Finance Act, where you can see how much money has been set aside for it, and of that scope of over 2 billion. kr., which is available in the Social Democratic Government, is set aside 30 million. kr. to continue a tax exemption for the electricity used to charge electric cars. That's 1%. Of the room for manoeuvre available 99 per cent. the scope is being spent on something other than climate policy. How is it in line with the fact that the Finance Act is called "Welfare first - security, trust and a green future', and how is this in line with the claims of the Social Democrats in the election campaign that the Social Democrats wanted much more than we in the blue parties in the climate area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104406	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104408	It is true that the rapporteur refers to the fact that the social democracy in the election campaign said that we wanted more than the bourgeois parties in the green area. At that time it was also correct to say that there are quite a lot of bourgeois parties that have moved in relation to the emission ambition, and that is a good thing, and that is something we should welcome. But, of course, we also have to keep the bourgeois parties up on their actions when a climate bill and action plan are soon to be discussed. So let us postpone the discussion on who is the most green until we have seen who actually delivers. I and the Social Democratic Party will enter the struggle with a certain calmness, based on historical results in the green area. In relation to electric cars, it is, after all, an ambition for the Socialist Government that we should have many more of them, and that is why we have set up a commission to look at the tax issue so that we can achieve our green ambition, including in the area of electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104510	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104511	I do not think we should postpone the discussion on what the Finance Act is doing in the area of climate change to a different time than now when we are dealing with the Finance Act. I don't think so. I think it is relevant to discuss the content of the Finance Act in the climate field now that we are discussing the Finance Act. You set aside 30 million. kr. to extend a tax exemption for electric cars charging electricity. On the other hand, the registration fee is raised on the electric cars, knowing that this will lead to fewer people wanting to buy an electric car. In fact, I would argue that the millions that the Social Democratic Party in the Finance Act takes away from the room for manoeuvre and spends on the green changeover are being neutralized and shamed by the millions that the Social Democrats charge extra in the registration fee on electric cars. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104559	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104600	I am certainly not putting off any green discussion. I am simply saying that, in addition to the other green initiatives in our Finance Act, which I have mentioned in a couple of rounds, we are also quite aware of the challenge of charging electric cars. It is just the case that with registration fees on both fossil cars and electric cars, there are some very fine balances that we need to be aware of. We need to set up a charging system that is in such a way that we ensure both the financing of the welfare society and that we actually have our car park converted in a green direction. And that is what requires Commission work to have a qualified debate on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104639	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Sophie Løh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104641	Thank you. No new green money, no proposals on how Denmark gets richer, no proposals on where businesses can get some extra hands to create more jobs; you have to agree with the rapporteur that there is a great deal that cannot be achieved on the first draft budget of the Social Democratic Party. Now the rapporteur mentioned that all his priorities to the Danes had been crystal clear before the election campaign, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur: what was the largest single financial contribution in the economic plan put forward by the Social Democratic Party in the middle of the election campaign, and what was that funding actually to deliver by 2020 in order to deliver more welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104726	I am, after all, pleased with Mrs Sophie Løh's question and am also pleased that it is being called for that we implement social democratic policy more quickly. It is, of course, the case that we have presented a number of clear priorities, priorities, which are about the fact that we do not believe that there is any provision for welfare if, at the same time, we implement the unfair tax cuts that Mrs Sophi Løhde had set aside when Mrs Sophie Løhde was Minister. When we do not implement these tax cuts, we do so with our eyes open. We are aware that this will result in criticism from some of the people who had the prospect of receiving tax relief, but we are doing so with open eyes because we want to finance a welfare society, a welfare society that can take good care of our children and that can take good care of our elderly, but also a welfare society where we drop the educational savings that were married to Danish business. We are dropping the re-priority contribution to education, which meant annual savings, and which the business community was so sorry about, because it meant that access to skilled labour became lower for our businesses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104833	Mrs. Sophi Løhde, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104835	It is a good thing that the question is being welcomed, because there is one more, because I did not get an answer to the question I asked, namely: what was the main source of funding in the so-called economic plan that the Social Democratic Party presented to the Danes during the election campaign? What was the largest financing operation? When the rapporteur cannot answer that, I guess it is because you do not want to stand by that you promised to find 3 billion. kr. to save on consultants. It's just turned into 0 kroner. Why is it that you have not found a single saving on consultancy costs when you promised the Danes that you could find 3 billion from one day to the next. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104916	Thank you. Then there's an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104919	The Social Democratic Government has by no means dropped its ambition to find 3 billion. kr. in savings on consultants. We want less money to be spent on consultants so that we can spend more money on welfare. Would it make sense just to put the savings into the Finance Act and then spend the money before we had a good plan on how to find the savings? I think that's what happened to the IRS when Mrs Sophie Løhde was a minister. I think we should do this right. I think we need to make sure that we have a good plan for how we can find these savings in a good way and only then take the financial gain home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022104959	Thank you for your speech and congratulations on the position of rapporteur. I think there were some interesting things in it that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen said. But there were two things I attached myself to, which I thought shattered a little in my ears. One was that you want a strict immigration policy on the part of the government, while at the same time giving 300 million in the Finance Act. kr. extra for families with children, first and foremost with immigrant backgrounds. It is not, of course, related to the fact that we want both a strict immigration policy and higher benefits for people who, for some, would have liked to have been sent home to their country of origin. When I'm gonna ask about the police relationship, too, it's because mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen said that a lot of money has now been set aside for the police. Yes, there is, but there was before. The problem is that more money is needed, and that is not being dropped off in the Finance Act. Well, then, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen does not explain why, as far as the police are concerned, we are going to wait for a multi-year agreement to secure really more money for the police?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105110	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105111	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup for the praise in relation to my rapporteur's speech. I can assure the Danish People's Party that the Social Democratic Government is wary of a strict immigration policy which is based broadly here in the Danish Parliament; a strict immigration policy, which we among other things. can do together with the Danish People's Party. Later this week we will be discussing the administrative disqualification of Danish citizenship for the Syrian warriors with dual citizenship. This is an example of how we can make initiatives together that make Denmark safer and better. Unfortunately, then, it is also the case that the previous government introduced very low benefits for families with children. That is why we have made a temporary grant to the poorest families of children. It is a subsidy which ensures that rubber boots and winter clothes can be afforded now, where winter is at the door, but also a subsidy which must be temporary until we can have a real and more thorough discussion about our entire system of benefits; a system of benefits to ensure that there are no more foreigners and refugees here, but also to ensure that we do not have poverty in Denmark. That is the balance we must strike.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105220	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105222	Thank you. I want to focus on the police here in my second question, because I didn't really get an answer to it. They say it's very important to give priority to the police. It is said that it is very important to ensure that the police can come out to the citizens when they need it. Dagbladet B.T. I mean, I can describe page up and side down how bad things are because the cops don't have enough resources. I would like to ask the rapporteur: why then choose to postpone the tied task, otherwise it is to make a multiannual agreement for the police economy so that we can get more police officers to the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105256	I regret that I did not reach the question. I start like from above, and then I have to see how many answers I get in the limited speaking time I have. As far as the police are concerned, the truth is that we took over a massive clash of police appropriations and that is why we had to fill up the cliff, that is to say put more money into the police, actually a large billion dollars, just to ensure that next year the police have the resources that they had this year. In addition, we then add more funds, 200 million. kr. more so that we can afford to train more politicians. And then we look forward to discussing a genuine multiannual agreement next year. Now we have for the time being ensured that the police can maintain the impact force by next year. And then we have to make a multiannual plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105336	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105340	Thank you for the floor. Now the rapporteur said earlier that you are also listening to experts, and in your financial bill there is a little about tobacco prices that need to be raised, at least a little bit • 5 kr. Next year and 5 kroner. again the following year. From the point of view of health policy, such a small increase is almost meaningless. If you listen to experts, they say that we must have a significantly higher increase and that the increase must take place in one cut in order to have an effect. The rapporteur can then explain to me why these very experts are not being listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105416	After all, we are proposing an increase in the price of cigarettes, because we want fewer people to smoke, and in particular we want fewer young people to start smoking. I do not think that the measure can stand alone, but it is one of several initiatives that can ensure that fewer young people start smoking. Then the rapporteur asks why we are not listening to health experts alone because the rapporteur is right that if we raised prices very sharply, there would probably be fewer people who would start smoking, but that is due to the fact that there are political differences, but also experts who disagree. For health experts would probably say that cigarette prices must rise, economic experts would say that if we raise cigarette prices sharply, it would have a social battle side • the rich director would be able to continue pulsating loose, and the less well-off folk pensioner, who might even find it harder to stop, would be very hard hit on the economy. This is, of course, the balance which the Social Democrats want to find; it is in fact the expression of political balances, but it also indicates that you must listen to experts, but experts often also say a lot that is mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105523	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105525	Thank you for your answer. It is quite true that a price increase cannot stand alone, but everyone says that the price increase is the most important piece of all the pieces we have on the playing board when it comes to this issue. And when we talk about inequality in health and we talk about public health in general, we do not escape the fact that a marked increase in one cut is needed now and here, so that we can see, in particular, an effect among young smokers. So that you make this a little unambitious increase in the tobacco price, I think it is a pity, because it would not have the effect we would like to see both the Social Democrats and Radicals and very many other parties want. So again: it is smoking that has a social side, so any action that will work will per. definition have a social battle side. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105608	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105610	I fully acknowledge the rapporteur's reasoning and the SF's position. It would mean fewer smokers if we set the price very high. I just hope that SF recognizes... Is that from the Radicals? President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party I'm sorry. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I'm sorry, too! Laughter I fully acknowledge the view of the Radicals in relation to the importance of cigarette prices for health; I just hope that the Radicals also recognise that high prices will be high, it will have a huge social battle side. Having said that, we are a minority government, so we must also discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105648	The first two direct charges may be excused, but the last time it cannot. I think we're gonna get to two more questions, and that's gonna be Mr. Simpson. Torsten Schack Pedersen and Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105659	Thank you. Just for the record it was the SRV government that, as a thief at night, abolished the so-called wealth tax circular, resulting in a marked increase in the taxation of family-owned companies. It relaxed the Left Government and now it is a renewed increase in taxes that the Socialist Government welcomes. It is not a roll-back of a relief; it is a reintroduction of an increase. I think that is essential. I welcome the fact that the Socialist rapporteur welcomes life and welcomes the rise in employment and the rise in prosperity. We fully share that view in the Left. In this context, I would like to hear what concrete initiatives in the government's financial legislation are contributing to an increase in private employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105801	After all, we are looking into a 2020 where total employment will increase, and that is positive. I think that one of the things that will contribute most positively to the Danish economy, to employment, to growth and welfare and to Danish companies is that we are now getting rid of these foolish savings in education. It is so crucial that Danish companies have access to highly trained labour. After all, Denmark will never be the cheapest and everyone in this room knows that, but if we do things properly, if we invest in our welfare society, if we invest in our education, we can be the best. Then we can achieve the best of all worlds, namely that we maintain growth, that we maintain prosperity, that we maintain our competitiveness and that, at the same time, we do so in a way that also ensures equality. It's the drill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105858	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105859	Thank you for that clear answer. There were no concrete initiatives in the government's financial bill that increase private employment. That's how much we got an answer, so thank you for that. Now, when the rapporteur says it is important that there should be no savings on education, please explain why the government is proposing a violent attack on the free schools in Denmark, where more than 300 million are to be saved. kr., so it becomes more difficult as parents to choose freely where you want your children to go to school, so it becomes more difficult in many of our rural areas where free school is the only option. And then I just need to know when the Social Democracy in the election campaign promised to abolish the broadband pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022105940	I think it says quite a lot about the rapporteur and the Left Party that it calls the abolition of the re-prioritisation contribution on training and the re-prioritisation contribution a saving on education and training for an unconcreted initiative. This is absolutely crucial for Danish companies, it is absolutely crucial for our education sector. It is true, then, that we have proposed reducing the coupling rate to what it has been in the past, and it is again a roll-back of the policy of the former bourgeois government. After all, we are doing so because we can see that a very large surplus has been made up in private schools since the bourgeois government set up the subsidy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110021	Thank you. The last thing we're gonna get to in this round is sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110023	Thank you. I simply have to say briefly that savings are continuing in parts of our education sector, and that is quite serious savings. The extraordinary increase in human and social higher education which we jointly gave in here is being abolished. And that will actually mean, in isolation, a greater saving on those courses than the entire re-priority contribution we have had in the last four years has done because savings are targeted. I am convinced that when we have made a common financial law in the near future, that saving is gone because we have committed ourselves together to investing in education. I just want to say that this is a rather serious saving which still exists in our education. My question is about something else in relation to education: does the Social Democratic Party, like the SF, believe that it is urgent to abolish the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110124	When I talk about abolishing savings in education, I should be specific and say that this is the massive re-prioritisation of education that we are abolishing. That is also what is most important. That is what has undermined the quality of our education for a number of years. This does not mean, of course, that the rapporteur is not right in saying that it is important that we also have a look at the taximeter lift to the humanities and social sciences because there will be savings in those courses. But there it is, as I said at the outset: we cannot conjure. There are limited funds available and the economy must be linked. However, I note that we have a number of parties, including the SF, with which we are currently negotiating, which are really focused on restoring the increased taximeter lift to the humanities and social sciences. And we have a relatively large negotiating pool, so I look forward to discussing it with the SF as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110231	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110233	Thank you. That is why I am so optimistic. I just think it should be clear from the debate that there are some training courses that are being hit really hard with the proposal that has been put forward. I actually asked about the education ceiling, which I saw as a fairly clear suggestion of something that would be abolished if the social democracy after the elections were given power, as they have observed. Why is this not part of the financial bill when we know that there are so many young people who are miserable and under pressure from this educational ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110307	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110309	We in the Social Democratic Party agree with the SF that the education ceiling must be abolished, both because it limits the freedom of choice of young people, but also because it creates uncertainty and pressure on young people. In fact, I also believe that it creates pressure on young people who may not even come into contact with the educational ceiling when it comes to choosing training. That is why it is still our ambition to abolish it. We must take things in the order in which we can obtain funding for it. I am also looking forward to discussing this issue with the government in the forthcoming and ongoing financial law negotiations with the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110341	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Time's up, and we're gonna continue with mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022110356	Thank you. We live in many ways in the time of opposites. The national team has not lost a match in 3 years and is well on its way to qualifying for the EM next summer, but DBU is still firing national coach Åge Hareide. We adults tell our children to go up less Instagram and self-iscension, but we still use the school photogate to show a lot of photos of ourselves. And it has never been easier to be Minister of Finance, but the Finance Minister sounds like his predecessor in the post, Knud Heinesen, who, as you know, could see the abyss. Fortunately, the reality is different, because Denmark has probably never stood stronger than we do today. Danish economy is in absolute top form. Employment is record high. Never have there been so many people at work as there are today. The proportion of refugees and family members in work has doubled. Asylum influx is at its lowest level for 10 years, and the economic room for manoeuvre that today's debate will probably also be about is greater than anyone would have hoped. In all modesty, I think the government could take pleasure in this. Because if the Minister of Finance is already hanging on the brink of a stop-filled treasure chest, yes, then I am seriously concerned about how the Minister of Finance will react if Denmark is again hit by an economic crisis. For unlike other countries in Europe, Denmark is actually a country with good opportunities for action. Instead of saving, we can now invest. Instead of tearing down, we can now build up, and instead of seeing limitations, we can now see new opportunities. Do you not really think that the pessimism of the government is about something a little different? In order to anticipate a breach of the promise, to downgrade the expectations that have been built up over the last few years, and to justify a fire tax on Danes, even though the Minister of Finance promised in the election campaign that 95 per cent. by the Danes would not be hit. The left will ensure that the good times benefit the Danes. This is not done by heaping them on new taxes, but by providing concrete and serious answers to the challenges we face. The Danes expect us to talk about visions and ideas. Yes, of course they do, but they also expect concrete and tangible solutions, and unfortunately here I think I have observed a rather unfortunate trend in this draft budget and in the work of the government in general. When, for example, will it be? Arne's turn? Over 270 days have passed since the Social Democratic Party promised Arne that he could retire early, but Arne and the others are still waiting. The truth is, it's never gonna be Arne's turn, because Arne's gonna be on early retirement. But all the others are still waiting for concrete answers from the Social Democratic Party. The government has set aside money to pay 1,000 more nurses in 2021, but the problem is that there are hardly any available nurses. Where exactly are the nurses supposed to come from? The requirement for minimum standards was not as ultimate as it sounded. In fact, this should not be achieved at all during this parliamentary term, one must understand. So when do more teachers actually come to kindergarten and crèches? The Consultant's ceiling was to save 3 billion. kr. a year at consultants, and the money is spent on better welfare instead. So neither the draft budget nor the legislative programme say anything about this. So when is there going to be a concrete bid where these 3 billion? kr. Can be saved? Actually, there's 0 kroner. In the draft financial regulation, which could give the 3 billion. kr. What is actually to be done with the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration allowance? So far, we have seen that unemployed immigrant families receive about DKr 2 000. extra tax-free per month, so how far should the benefits really be increased? Yes, a so-called Service Commission should look into that. Yes, it is pouring out with pickle pots here at Slotsholmen. In fact, to such an extent that you would think that Kirsten Hüttemeier has become Chief of Staff at the Prime Minister's Office. The working people, the ordinary Danes, come in many sizes. We should not forget them in this, sometimes a little theoretical discussion at Christiansborg. I think that the industrial worker is rather indifferent to ideological considerations about the tax on generational change in companies. Entrepreneurs may also not care if people who have never tried to start their own business think that capitalism has become ill, and the cashier may also care little about the government's check-ups. Politics is about elections and opt-outs. You have to stand by them, and unfortunately I think that the government has chosen to be concrete in all the wrong places. It is important for the blacksmith and the farmer whether the local workplace closes or has to move abroad. That is why it is also wrong when, in this draft budget, the government triples the tax on generational change in family-owned companies. It will hit 300 000 jobs and 12 000 to 14 000 farms over the next 10 years. It matters to the young entrepreneur that one's business can grow in Denmark. Therefore, it is also a wrong choice when, for example, the government wants to reduce the share savings account in this Finance Act and also wants to raise the tax on risk capital in general. This makes it harder to invest in new technology and recruit more employees within the country's borders. It also matters to the cashier that it actually pays to work. That is why it is also a wrong choice when the government wants to spend 300 million. kr. to raise the cash benefits and the integration allowance. It doesn't just reduce the gain by taking a job. It also harms integration and, worse still, it means that fewer children will grow up in families where both mother and father go to work and are part of the working community. The Left wants a different path from that of social democracy and, for that matter, the rest of the left. We want to develop and consolidate the things that have made Denmark stronger in the last four years. And here I would also like to take this opportunity to send a greeting to the Radical Left. I believe that many of those who voted for the Radical Left have voted for the party in the hope that it may be a guarantor of some sort of economic responsibility in the red bloc. Social democracy and the rest of the left have decided to pursue an irresponsible economic policy that will make it more expensive to be a Dane and more expensive to operate, and which unfortunately also contains a signal that you will not do anything to make Denmark richer. That is where the Radical Left has a responsibility. Then for Mr. Morten Østergaard and today to the Financial Rapporteur of the Radicals, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, is my call: Stand firm on the responsible economic policy, which is absolutely crucial to the society we have. Before long, the Left will present its fiscal priorities for 2020, but let me mention a few of the elements here. We want to introduce a tax freeze; it should not be more expensive to be a Dane or to run a business. We want to safeguard free school elections and cancel government cuts in free schools. We want to ensure that the money is made before it is spent and that it becomes easier to operate in Denmark. And we want to ensure that more smart heads are given the opportunity to help our Danish companies, so that we ensure that there can be a richer Denmark with more development and more jobs. We will also raise our welfare so that we can ensure dignified care for the elderly, a strong world-class healthcare system and a good care for our children in the future. Then we will also devote more money to a more real green transition than the government has proposed in its draft budget. We must ensure that Denmark can continue to maintain the green driver's shirt. The President of the Left made it very clear in his speech at the opening debate that the Left supports the ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. But politics, as I said, is about elections and opt-outs. That is why we are also ready to give priority to some of the economic scope beyond the demographic trait for green conversion. For if our green ambitions are not to be caught out of thin air, we must also be ready to put action behind words. It's the Left. We will insist on a genuine green transition. We will insist that the green transition goes hand in hand with ensuring both continued good jobs and economic freedom. We will insist on concrete initiatives and funding, because objectives do not do so alone. I started by saying that we are living in the times of contradictions, and that is very much a contradiction between what the Red Socialist Government wants and what the Left wants. We don't need black vision, taxes and pickles. Instead, we need to develop and strengthen the foundation on which Denmark is built, with freedom, enterprise and community. This will be the direction of the Left in the negotiations on next year's Finance Act, where we will, of course, be constructive and willing to negotiate, if we are fortunate enough to be invited again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111254	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we start the question round. It's first, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111302	Thank you. Can the rapporteur mention one proposal in the Left's financial bill that makes Denmark richer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111311	Yeah, at least I can. After all, we have not presented our financial law priorities yet, but we will do so in a short time. But the fact that we are going to allocate funds to strengthen Danish business is precisely what makes Denmark richer, unlike the Social Democratic Government. In the reply that has come late last night from the Minister for Finance, we have to note that Denmark is not making it richer. Bnp isn't gonna grow. It doesn't look like Denmark with this finance bill is gonna be a richer society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111341	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111342	It has to be said that the Left's criticism of the fact that the Social Democratic Party has presented the draft budget too late is somewhat sloppy when a proposal is not tabled before the first reading. That is enough because you cannot really finance what you have proposed and what the Left has said. In other words, how will we finance a welfare promise, a tax freeze, tax reductions for business, the abolition of the re-priority contribution in the field of culture, education and education, when all the proposals for funding presented by the Social Democratic Party have been rejected? One cannot both blow and have flour in one's mouth unless, of course, the Left plans to bring forward all the room for manoeuvre that lies in the years to next year's financial year, which would be grossly irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111420	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111422	Well, then we can go back to one of the things I have black belt in, namely process. There I would like to say to the Socialist rapporteur that what is quite interesting this year, in the financial law process we have here, is that the government has presented a financial law historically late. We have not even been able to carry out the technical discussions with the respective ministers; Christian Rabjerg Madsen knows very well that there are three ministers to attend the Finance Committee this week. In addition, I also note that a unanimous Finance Committee has sent a letter, which Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is also a co-signator of where criticism is expressed of the way the government has handled the financial law process. So you can be quite safe; we will also be discussing the financial priorities of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111503	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111506	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask the Left a question when the Left now comes up with its proposal. What we have seen coming from the Social Democratic Party is such an attack on the private company and indeed also an attack on the province. One can only take a few points of impact: one can mention the broadband pool, one can mention the connection rate compared to the free schools located in the province, and one can also mention the generational shift in the small companies located in the province. Does the Left, when it comes to its proposal, have the same aggression towards the province and the Danish economy? So, do you also want the generation change for Danish family-owned companies to be difficult? Will the Left also ensure that you cannot connect to the Internet when you live in the province? Will it be ensured that the free school, which keeps up the momentum in the small community, will have more difficult conditions in the future? Is this what we want to see in the proposals of the Left, or are we going to correct the absurdities of the Social Democrats' proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111600	Thank you for the good question. We will, of course, correct all the absurdities in the Socialist Finance Bill. That goes without saying. Having said that, however, it may be a little surprising that, when they were in opposition until a short time ago, the Social Democrats were very concerned about the need to create a balance in Denmark, and that was just something they thought when they were in opposition. Now the many points mentioned by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party are an attack on the fact that rural areas must be made more difficult, that it will mean less development opportunities, and that is the wrong way to go. So the many fine speeches made by the then Social Democrat President and the present Prime Minister about the need to balance Denmark were just something they said.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111649	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111650	I'd like to sign for that. I am, of course, very pleased that the Left has that position, but it is also interesting when one hears this in the debate, which is also in the Chamber today, that savings on training are going on over and over again. But what is really being done about these private schools, which are the only school offer out there? You actually save 5 per cent there. from one year to the next. It is not a 2-percent saving that comes year after year, quietly, which one can implement, but it is 5%. from one year to the next. I would just like to ask the Left: are we not also worried that, if this goes through, we will simply experience school closures out there, that is, that there are children who get longer for a basic school offer?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111728	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111730	Yeah, it's definitely a nervousness we share in the Left. In the Left we have the clear view that it is important to have free schools; they are a good addition to the Danish primary school. That is why we will see, not least in some of our rural areas, that there will be free schools coming under severe pressure and, for some, so hard that they will have to close because their economy does not allow them to operate. So that is precisely the challenge of the proposal put by the Social Democratic Party in its draft budget, which we want to fight with our beaks and claws.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111804	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111806	Thank you. Together with the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we in the Radical Left helped to get the Social Democrats to agree on this goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030. That is a very ambitious objective. A whole Danish business community backs up, pension funds back up and, of course, several other parties, including the rapporteur's own. As the rapporteur and his party have already said, this is very ambitious. So I'm glad that the party is also on the sidelines. This also means that action must be taken and action must be taken now. I asked the Social Democrat rapporteur about CO2 I have not seen them yet. But will the rapporteur's party, the Left, help to ensure that real action takes place, for example? in the case of set-aside of vulnerable agricultural land, which is the most important for CO2 emissions;
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111914	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022111916	Thank you for the question. Things generally go very strongly in politics here at Christiansborg. I mean, you got the impression that it was sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who himself had invented the 70%. Unfortunately, I was not part of the debate I saw just on television, but I believe that it was not least the Radical Left which, in the paper of understanding which emerged from the discussions that were held with a number of parties, placed the decisive emphasis on the 70%. So I think it should also be remembered that it has been a priority for the Radical Left, and congratulations on that victory, if that is the case. We are quite willing to go and that is also what I mentioned in my speech to use the financial room available. It will also be seen when we present our fiscal priorities that it should be, if you may say so, a real boost to the green transition. The truth is, as Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen also said: there is no improvement in the current draft budget. It is just that you color some money green, and then you say that now we spend more money on the green transition. This is not a real boost to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112023	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112024	Thank you. Thank you for that confirmation. I can't wait to see the Left playout. Will it continue with what was also part of the election campaign by a great many parties, and which, unfortunately, is not part of the financial law of the Social Democrats, namely the abolition of the education ceiling and the continued funding of humanist and social science education? Can the Left back that up too?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112051	In many ways, of course, the Left is an old and perhaps also somewhat boring party in the sense that we mean the same before an election as after an election. I would like to sign off on that because the Social Democratic Party doesn't. Social democracy has a black belt in thinking one thing before an election and then meaning another after an election. We have seen that before, and we see that now too. However, in relation to the special grant for the humanities and social sciences, we said that yes, we will ensure that. So that is what we are aiming for, and that is what we will be able to see. Then we also said during the election campaign that we would discuss the education ceiling, and that will also be seen in our fiscal priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112133	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112135	Thank you. Left concern for Arne and for the climate is touching. It warms my heart, probably others's too. It would have been a little bit practical if we had had the Left Finance Bill proposal here for the first reading of the Financial Act. Because it's kind of hard to debate something you haven't seen. In SF we always put forward our proposals, also in good time. But then we will have to guess a little or ask the rapporteur some questions as he stands on the platform. One of the things I would like to ask is also the green transition. Now both the Left, but also the SF itself, have criticized the government for not making new money in the climate area, the green area. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur how the Left will give priority to climate action. What is new money, and in what areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112242	It has certainly been possible in the past for the SF to deal with a financial bill debate. For there are at least other parties, because we had government power, who also did not put forward a financial bill for first reading, and it was possible for the SF to navigate after all. So I must also say that I think it is very fair that we have the opportunity to have a technical review in the Committee on Finance before we, as the opposition party, have to present our policy. We can draw a smile on that, but Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows that during this week three ministers will be meeting in the Committee on Finance. Having said that, however, I just think that the SF should welcome the fact that the Left is now saying quite clearly that the green transition requires a real economic boost. What lies in the government's financial bill is not enough. That is also why we want to use the resources available in the economic space. How we're going to spend it and how much money and for what, you'll be able to see when we present our play.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112335	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112338	sound outage...] they say that hurrah, one has made one's own proposal, but we cannot be included in it for this first reading, where we are supposed to have a debate on what we think should be prioritised in next year's Finance Act. There was no shortage of criticism of the Social Democratic Party, because the Left had the power of government if they had not tabled a budget bill, and now I cannot even know what this is in general terms, in general terms, is intended to set aside for the green transition. I think that is beneath all criticism.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112417	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112419	I am not surprised that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen thinks so. After all, we do not come up with a draft budget as a government. Well, now we're doing it as an opposition party. Other opposition parties have done the same in the past. I just want to say quite clearly today that I do not think it is a fair priority for the Folketing either. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen herself has been involved in signing a letter from the Committee on Finance that the Committee on Finance has not in any way been properly served by the government. And until we've seen all the maps from the government, we don't come up with our priorities. But one can rejoice at this and I think that, whether Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is shaking her head or not, we share the ambition that there should be more money for the green transition. And that is what is different from what the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112505	Then it's mr. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112506	Now the rapporteur says that the Left is such a party which is pursuing responsible economic policy. Then I just have to ask: is it particularly responsible from 2015 to 2019 to have agreed tax reliefs, which will cost nearly 22 billion. kr. Every year, when you leave a bill of 3.5 billion at the same time. kr. that the rest of us are going to pick up in the budget negotiations for 2020? Is that particularly responsible? I also have to ask something about the fact that the Left has a desire for more funding to be provided for the green transition. The government has played out with a very tough negotiating reserve of 2.1 billion. kr. That's too little. It has to be lifted. But it has to be said that if the Left had not, like it had, run off the bill with the other bourgeois parties, there would have been 2.1 billion. kr. plus 3.5 billion. kr. extra. Then there would have been a negotiating reserve of 5.6 billion. kr. to negotiate. So how responsible is it actually to empty the box and run from the bill and then go and claim that you are a financially responsible party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112608	Well, the Left hasn't run off any bill at all. Now we have ample opportunity to discuss the so-called cashier's check-up, I think, during this week in the Committee on Finance, where the Minister for Finance will then run for consultation. The 3.5 billion. kr., which it is believed is a bill some have run from, is after all all all known expenses that the Folketing has been aware of should be financed. That's one of them. the tax administration and police, which will have a new economy by 2020. So it's not a bill to run off, just to mention two elements. Then I'd just like to do sir, too. Rune Lund is aware of something before he stares blindly at those 2 billion. kr. in negotiation reserve. I mean, when I look down in the government's Finance Act and I may have missed something I'll estimate that there's about 4 billion. kr., which can be used for political initiatives. There are 2 billion. kr., which has been set aside for a negotiating reserve, but then the government has also set 1 billion. kr. To himself. I'm not guessing that sir. Rune Lund is so easy in a debate that he says that, by the way, there are 1 billion. kr., in which Enhedslisten is not allowed to interfere. And besides, there are a large number of hidden provisions, as Mr. Rune Lund can throw herself over. So I think the good news is that there are approx. 4 billion kr., which one can, if I may say so, negotiate with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112721	Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112722	That's right. I've also created an overview of the total reserves just so Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen can be fully aware of it. The fact is, however, that what the previous government has done is that it has been extremely good at providing permanent tax cuts, which will cost nearly 22 billion in future. kr. a year. However, when it comes to appropriations for our tax administration, when it comes to appropriations for our police, we have only managed to provide temporary appropriations. That is why it has been a political priority to leave a tab of 3.5 billion. kr. And my question is simply: is it responsible economic policy to provide permanent tax cuts that are primarily to the benefit of the richest but only temporary appropriations for institutions that really need money?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112803	Thank you. We now have an answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112805	We have the view, unlike the Enhedslisten, that it is important both to have a good and strong welfare society, but also to ensure that some people make money in this society. That is why we actually think it is common sense to ensure better conditions for Danish companies. That is also why we in the Left are bemoaning that the government has not taken a single initiative to make Denmark richer. It's not like the money just falls out of the sky. Somebody's gotta make the money that keeps this community running. That is why we think it is actually very sensible to encourage that it becomes easier to have a job and also to get a financial benefit from it just to give an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112845	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112846	Thanks for a good speech. I was particularly fond of the introduction where Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen referred to the fact that the Danish national coach had been fired after not losing a match for 3 years. I was waiting for the natural extension, which would be that the bourgeois government had been fired after not losing a fight for four years. However, I think that perhaps there was at least one point where we could have done even better as a civil government, and this is actually a point that I think all other governments have not been able to keep the legislation simple over the last hundred years. We have among other things. a tax law that is extremely complicated, and very, very few Danes can see through the calculation of their tax rate and their marginal tax. I would therefore like to know whether the Left would like to work with us to simplify the tax system, for example. by abolishing the labour market contribution and making sure that one had a more fairly simple drawing rate instead of this system, where one first gets drawn into labour market contributions and then gets drawn in other percentages afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022112955	It is true that the previous government lost its power of government, and that is the way it is in politics: it is not possible to win every time. I agree, however, that there is always room to be critical of some of what has been done, including as a government. And there are things that can be done better, no matter how good you are. But what is our priority now in the priority paper that we come up with in response to the government's financial bill is to unwind out of some of the, we in the Left think, wrong plans that the government has. That's what we're gonna use our powers on and use our economy for. That is why I do not see the need to fundamentally change the tax system in connection with this financial law debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113047	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113048	I would like to hear some arguments as to why you shouldn't. Because it would cost nothing to create a tax system that was simpler. You could get the same proceeds. One could also ensure that one had the same progressiveness in the tax system as one has today, so it was still the case that the widest shoulders paid the most. So it is not a question of it having to cost a whole lot of money. Of course there will be some system development, and of course there is work for the civil service by creating a new tax system, but as such this is not meant to be an exercise which should give tax relief and cost a whole lot of revenue. I would really like to hear the arguments that one might be opposed to having a simpler and more transparent tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113130	I think it has to be said that just getting the current tax system to work at all is a very big exercise. It costs many billions, and that is why I do not think it is time to introduce new IT systems into the tax administration now, when we can see that the IT systems that exist are having difficulty working. So I would strongly advise against that. On the contrary, I think that we should put ourselves in the position of enabling the Tax Administration's IT systems to collect the taxes and charges that are necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113157	I hear we have some negotiations over in the corner, which may need to be slightly more subdued. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113203	Thank you. The rapporteur made a lot of effort just now to say that the Left meant the same after the elections as they did before the elections. I just have to say that I do not agree with that, and I am really glad that it is not, because before the elections we had a government that put the green turnaround in reverse, and now the Left also supports a 70-percent reduction target by 2030. So it is a fantastic move in the position that has taken place in the Left. But I would like to ask: what does it mean when the rapporteur speaks in his speech about genuine green conversion and concrete investment? How much money do you want to set aside, and what money are you going to find to get started now and here with the real green conversion and the concrete investments?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113249	Well, you can give a very specific answer to that. For example: We think it is wrong to spend 300 million. kr. I would also like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations is a step in the right direction. That money's wrong spent. Does that mean, when the Left comes up with its priorities, that it is 300 million? kr. extra, which we will use to trigger the green transition? You'll learn more about that when you see our proposal. However, we believe that there is a need to go a real piece further than what the government has now presented. I also note that the alternative has meant this, so it is after all something that brings us together. Then I think it is a very violent intervention on the former Minister for Climate and Energy, who is also sitting in the Chamber today, to say that there was no green climate policy. In other words, a broad energy agreement was made, which is also the basis for what we are discussing now, namely in relation to climate action. So this is a sad attack on my good colleague Lars Christian Lilleholt, and that is simply not right when he cannot defend himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113355	Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113356	I do not think that any of what I said surprised the former Minister for Climate Change. I think I've said it many times, too, when he was climate minister. Anyway, you could say that maybe it's 300 million. kr. that extra comes in. Is this real investment in genuine green conversion? And I am asking because we have presented a number of solutions on how to get the real money for green conversion. So not going to talk about how little is enough, but what it really takes to make this transition. Is the Left willing to begin to look at some of the solutions that are one of them. have used green bonds in Holland to get started with the real green conversion?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113434	Thank you. Yes, the Left is quite willing to discuss this here, and we are also quite willing to use the economic space, that is, the expression that we are getting richer as a society. We think it makes sense to use part of the increase in prosperity to make a green transformation in this society. Of course, this must be done in a wise and visionary way. There are many different proposals for this. The Radical Left mentioned among other things: the removal of land, which could be an example. What I think we should be spending far more effort on is how we can get much more investment in the green area. It is also changing some of the rules that are currently in favour of investment, to mention another concrete example.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113515	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113517	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the Left believes the same after the elections as before the elections. Oh, I don't think that's gonna hold up. In 2015, the Left went to elections on zero growth in public consumption, but just after the elections, a government basis was provided, which only the Left stood for, where public consumption increased, so basically it does not fit. I hope that this is not something that we really intend to continue with, because up to the elections that are just over, the Left was out with a statement that 69 billion. kr. should be spent on welfare. So the economic scope would be used for welfare; one would continue to have the second highest taxes in the world. So my question to the rapporteur is this: has the Left changed its position on this, or will it continue to maintain the world's second highest taxes and increase public spending in one of the world's largest public sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113613	So, the Left stands entirely by the welfare vow we made before the elections. This will also be seen in the economic priorities that we have in our draft Finance Act when it is presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113624	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113625	I find it extremely sad that the Left only keeps its word when it comes to spending more of the citizens' money, not when it comes to giving back some of the money to the citizens, back into the pockets of the citizens where they belong. I'd like to ask you about the room. Does the rapporteur think that the room for manoeuvre is really the citizens' money, or that it is some means that politicians already have at their disposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113654	We're getting a long way around here. I believe in general terms that we are elected by the citizens, and all taxes and charges are, after all, money paid by citizens or companies to society and managed by us. It's actually relatively simple. That is why we must also be careful how to spend that money, and we must also get that money used in the best and most effective way. I think I agree with the rapporteur on this point too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113716	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113718	Thank you. After all, the government has put forward a financial bill which provides for an increase in the inheritance tax for family-owned companies at the age of 6%. 15%. It is a strange proposal, and the argument that follows is also strange, because it is about the heirs having to pay something too. However, they pay to the extent that they withdraw money from their business for private consumption. Then they pay the same tax as everyone else. It is a matter of the company having to pay, that the company suddenly has to find all the billions. My question to the Left rapporteur is: will the Left, like the Liberal Alliance, return the inheritance tax from 15%. at 6%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113810	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113813	That was nice. People say that we blue parties don't agree on anything. We agree on a lot. In the first question I ask, we are one hundred percent in agreement. That's good. So I ask a new question: will the Left help to abolish the inheritance tax altogether? Why do you have to pay 6%? in inheritance tax? Why is that the right number? When 15%. is far too high is 6%. So not too loud, actually? Should it not be 0 per cent, not only for heirs who inherit businesses, but also for all of us who might inherit something from time to time, for example. an old couch or a larger amount of our ancestors?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113848	I am also pleased that we express agreement in this Chamber. Now, first of all, I think it is important to put an end to the disaster that is going on with what the government has put forward. You have to aim to hit 0 per cent.? At any rate, we must be sure that we have the funding for this, and I am not in a position to point that out here today. But what I think one should be more interested in, what I actually think the rapporteur agrees with, is the valuation circular that was changed over the night 5-6 years ago. We need to take a critical look at this because it helps to give companies a totally wrong and bloated value. Therefore, I would rather throw my strength into that issue than in the debate on 0 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113941	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022113943	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen gets a little smoke, a little criticism that the Left was very much after the Social Democrats for not making financial proposals that were comprehensive enough during the last parliamentary term, but therefore states that it means the same before the elections as after the elections, and I really think the rapporteur is right about that. In other words, we could not answer what the economic policy of the Left was in the election campaign, nor can we answer today when we have a debate on the Finance Act, what the economic policy of the Left is, so things are similar on both sides of the election, and that can then be taken as a kind of praise, but it is difficult to have a good debate. I would like to turn to the question of inheritance tax, because I would just like to ask Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen to confirm to the Folketing that the economic wise men actually contradict all the arguments that come here today that it would be detrimental to the economy to make the reversal of the inheritance tax rate to what it was when the Left last took over government power.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114052	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114053	I mean, I'm just taking it as a constructive, loving discussion when you want to discuss that the Left hasn't presented its priorities... they'll come. Even if that means that there are more invitations from the Finance Minister, I doubt it because you want to make a purely red Finance Act. It's up to the government to decide for itself. It's sad for Denmark. That makes it more expensive. Unfortunately, this does not create economic growth, on the contrary. I would also like to say that it will be possible to see that what we are aiming for is fully reflected in what we went to the polls. And it has to be said, to the praise of the Social Democrats, that we cannot find much of what the Social Democrats promised the electorate. For example: is the 3 billion. kr., with which one could finance a great deal via savings on consultancy costs, the fact that non-existent in the draft budget we are looking at just to mention one example. In many ways, I find this somewhat thought-provoking when it is such a major financing element.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114152	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114154	Sir. After all, Troels Lund Poulsen chose not to answer the question that was about the economic wise men actually rejecting the arguments that come here that the inheritance tax would be harmful to the economy. Nor do I think it is a proper designation of what is in the draft budget, which is full of things we said before the elections, but now I have to answer it. And then, if we add another thing, like Mr. Simpson... Troels Lund Poulsen knows well, so said the former tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, in fact also to the Danish Parliament on 2 May 2018, that there is no evidence to support significant behavioural effects, and thus no significant effects on labour supply and bnp, associated with the abolition of the estate tax and inheritance tax, so that it had no economic significance. Is it not true that it is a political issue of inequality and not a question of the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114241	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114242	Well, now you can also be pleased that Mr. Jesper Petersen is not bound by duty of truth right now, but if you want to quote the Economic Council, I think you should quote correctly, and that was the question that Mr. Jesper Petersen wanted to answer the question himself. I'll answer it now. The fact is that they would like to use the funds available in a different way. It is because they think there are other elements that are more effective, but they are all elements against which the Social Democrats are vertically opposed. So what's the point? The fact is that the Social Democratic Party does not want to improve conditions for Danish business, and that is a fair priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114319	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114322	Thank you. Now we have heard a lot about what the Left disagrees with the government. And it is exciting in that way to be able to bring out the contrasts in a debate on finance law, but there is actually a very significant post on the Finance Act, where the Left is the sure support of the government. It's about the barely 23 billion. kr., which Denmark sends towards Brussels this year. Therefore, I would just like to hear what is really happening with the Left's relationship with this EU contribution. Why is it that you do not want it to be lowered? In other words, if we now agree to have a restrictive approach to the Danish economy and that it is important that the money is spent properly and so on, why not have the same approach to the EU budget? I mean, 23 billion. kr. Oh, my God, I'm gonna keep it in the box a little bit. And I know that there are also waves ahead of what is happening with brexit, and yet we do not hear the Left being those who say that the Danish contribution is going down and that the EU must fill less. On the contrary, if you hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and other such characters, it is almost the opposite that one gets the impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114429	Precisely to name Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen as a character may be going too far. The Left has the clear position that we think we are making a sensible and fair contribution. We are in favour of strong European cooperation. This is where there can sometimes be a nuance between the Danish People's Party and the Left, you have to say sometimes more clearly than other times. But where I think one should invest one's capital is where Denmark has the opportunity to maintain the level of payment that is currently in force. I foresee that the current Social Democratic Government cannot deliver on it, but may be forced to pay more in EU contributions. That is also why you can see the panic in the face of the Prime Minister at the moment when she is at the European Council, because the Prime Minister is well aware that Denmark is potentially going to contribute more. And that is where we think we are at a fair level, and that is what we think makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114525	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114526	Of course, I am sorry if the rapporteur does not think that his EU rapporteur is a character. If so, I would agree and would like to withdraw those words. But I'd still like to hear about something. Now, if the government comes back with unsolvated cause... as sir. Troels Lund Poulsen envisages and therefore wants more money for Brussels, because this is the way the debate has come to an end, should I understand that the Left is going to put its foot down there and the government is going to be forced to seek cover from its left-wing parliamentary basis? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114602	You must admire sir. Morten Messerschmidt for his creativity in looking into the future. Now I think we're gonna do one thing at a time. And I do agree that it cannot be ruled out that the Social Democrats might get into that situation because they are not very capable of negotiating on behalf of Denmark. It's a realistic scenario. But if that were to happen, we would have to deal with it at that time. However, I would like to say that for us it is crucial that we are part of European cooperation, and that is why we will have to deal with it at that time. It is not, of course, a negotiating mandate that we are giving today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114637	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114638	Thank you. The new President of the Left said at the extraordinary national meeting of the Left that the Left would now also embark on the green transition. However, I didn't know exactly what he meant, so I will try to read out what was said: "But there is a big, difficult and important task in finding the real green, liberal answers that are actually real solutions and not just looking closely at Denmark, turning up taxes and demands and pushing good jobs... beyond the country's borders. - That's it, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen does not address, after all: what will the Left specifically do in relation to the green transition? Will the Left, for example? help support a charge on plastic bags? Will the Left help to introduce that there can actually also be some taxes on business to ensure the green transition? We have not seen any clear answers to that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114732	To help, sir. Thomas Jensen, I would like to say that, for example, we are going to have to do something about it. believes that the research reserve now to be negotiated should be much more targeted at green technologies and green research. And there we have an ambition that we also had before the elections. It's just to give you one example. So the fact that we are encouraging new green technologies can also help to make the changeover easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114758	Sir. Thomas Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114800	Thank you. I agree that we should do research. This is also what the Social Democratic Party is calling for research into green conversion. However, in relation to the specific bids, are the very specific questions: will the Left support the setting up of the tax on plastic bags? Will the Left help to say to the Danish business community, in principle, that we have a behavior which we would like to regulate with some taxes in order to promote the green transition? Is the Left ready for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114828	In other words, the Left is able to spend more money on the green transition than the Social Democracy is in the draft budget which is now in place. That's why it's kind of weird to have this discussion. Because there is no fresh money, there is no new money for a real green conversion. The Social Democrats' answer is then, I understand, that the green transition must be forced through by means of raising taxes and levies. And I just want to say that if you use it alone as a tool, it is a really, really dangerous tool to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114856	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022114859	Thank you. In many ways, I think it was a glorious speech, and it is above all because the rapporteur spent more time talking about the policy of the red parties, including the SF, which the rapporteur spent a great deal of time on than on the policy of the Left. One issue which is very close to me and which is very close to the SF and which the rapporteur raised is the subject of minimum standards, where the rapporteur had misunderstood that we have run from something we said in the election campaign. On the contrary, we have actually achieved what we said in the election campaign, namely that minimum standards must be introduced by law so that a future government cannot roll it back and it must be phased in so that there is no reduction in the number of graduates. The SF model is so that it should be an adult to three children in the crèche and an adult to six children in the kindergarten, and the concrete standarding model is then the model we are negotiating in the finance courtroom. Now that I have informed the rapporteur of the status of the negotiations on minimum standards, I would just like to hear what the Left really thinks about minimum standards. Could the Left be involved in setting minimum standards in Denmark by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115007	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115008	I don't quite recognize the picture that Mr. Jacob Mark describes that everything SF said before the elections is being implemented. That is certainly not what the paper of understanding says. However, I cannot rule out the possibility of some negotiations being held now, which, for good reasons, the Left is not being invited to, and which one to one delivers on what the SF promised the electorate. It's only good for SF if it could happen. After all, we had a major discussion on minimum standards, and this is not the first time we have had them. I think we should have a more nuanced discussion about minimum standards, because it does not make sense to discuss only the number of educators, because it is just as much about how their education is and how their continuing training is • how skilled the educators who are going to be with the children are. I think that is completely absent, because it will only be a discussion of figures. But I would also like to admit that, of course, the number of educators also has an impact on the well-being of children. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115109	Sir. Jacob Mark, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115111	In fact, I think that much time is spent discussing this too, namely professionalism, and that this should not lead to a reduction in the number of graduates, just as it has done in Norway, where minimum standards are being drawn up. That is also why it is in the understanding paper that a training plan should be drawn up when minimum standards are drawn up at the same time. So the rapporteur can be quite confident about that. What is the problem is that there are simply not enough adults. Even the best-trained educators cannot do pedagogy if there are not enough hands, and that is why such a minimum rating is needed. So I would like to hear something from the rapporteur: why does the rapporteur's party support a class ceiling in primary school, which is to ensure that there are enough adults if the rapporteur's party does not support the same in today's institutions where children are younger?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115151	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115152	I'm not actually comfortable with much of what SF says, so whatever Jacob Mark says I can be quite comfortable with, it's not like I'm gonna be comfortable with this post. I look forward to seeing the proposal that will then be discussed. It's not a proposal I know, but you're welcome to invite me. I don't have much on my calendar, so I can come anytime. So I will then write to the Minister for Finance that I will come to the next meeting. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115221	I believe that we can make two more brief comments. We can reach sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, and we can reach Mr. Kjær. Henning Hyllested, before the time is up. We shall now give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115235	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about this inheritance tax. Berlingske recently published an article showing that the 100 richest people in Denmark together own a fortune of over 458 billion. kr., and it's the owners of the family-owned companies who really top that list. And now I understand that the rapporteur's party will roll it back to the old inheritance tax and thus give a tax relief of over 1 billion. kr. to the alleraldest Danes • 1 billion. We have had to understand, instead of spending on welfare, which is what the rapporteur's party would also like, with the continuation of welfare promises from the election campaign. Then the rapporteur cannot tell us why it is so urgent for the Left to grant a tax relief to the very richest Danes instead of spending the money on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115331	So, I think there is something wrong with the acoustics in this Chamber, or there is something wrong with the ears that might be sitting on the questioner. That is actually very well-educated by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, how and how the entire generation shift tax is. Well, it's all about denouncing the company's finances. Should the local carpenter find it difficult to dispose of his business? Should it be that small and medium-sized enterprises are basically unable to make a change of generation? I am actually delighted that some people are helping to make money. Those who are on that list without me being able to do it either from the front or from the rear are all companies that create very, very many jobs here in Denmark and thus also help to ensure that we have a record high level of employment. So I think we should actually welcome this and do something more to ensure that companies have better conditions, but that is exactly what the Social Democrats do not want. That is why we will also be sending jobs out of Denmark if the Social Democrats pursue the line taken in this draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115446	Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115447	But what is now a little special is that the rapporteur's colleague and former tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, in an interview to Politiken, said that it wasn't just about socio-economics, but that it was only for moral reasons how to fix the inheritance tax. So just to make it absolutely clear: for the Left, it is therefore more important for moral reasons to send 1 billion. kr. to the alleraldest Danes instead of spending the money on the community. And I just find it hard to understand how 1 billion. kr. More to the alleralding Danes should do something good for the general prosperity of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115524	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115526	But I guess I don't have enough time to convince the Social Democratic MP, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær. After all, we have spent many hours together in a different capacity, and those were more sensible words that came out of Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær's mouth there, that is, as a member of the Disruption Council. But leave it alone. You can be harmed by being elected to the Folketing. And there I am just sorry that the Social Democratic Party takes the view that companies should not have good conditions in Denmark. It's sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115605	Thank you. The last round is Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115606	I would like to know whether you in the Left are happy or sorry. Perhaps this is especially true of Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, because he, as a minister, had a large share in the cutting of LAG funds.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... kr. About 60 million. kr. It is a very, very small amount of money to finance a massively large agricultural package. Troels Lund Poulsen is happy or sad. Because in all the years we were pushing hard for the saving of the table again, and there were among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Troels Lund Poulsen, when he was minister: No, no, it can't be done, we need those lousy 30 million. kr. to finance the large agricultural package. So I ask the question: is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen happy, or is he sad because that saving is now being rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115723	Well, you could put it that way, it's a patch on an open leg fracture. For we have discussed before in today's debate all the initiatives in the government's draft budget which will make life harder in the Danish rural areas and which are all of which have a concrete meaning. I would like to say that the fact that the level of LAG funds is now being returned to what it was before is an excellent priority. So it will also be supported by the Left. So it's not like I'm sorry or happy. I note that the government is doing so, and we will not fight against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115801	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115803	Does this also mean that if the Left once again acquires government power, then that government will not resume the saving on LAG funds? Now Mr. Mr Ole Birk Olesen has given a very, very clear answer to the question of the inheritance tax. Can I have an equally clear answer that the Left will never enter again?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115830	Yes, because I will not expose future and potential business ministers to further consultations with Mr. Henning Hyllested or anyone else from Enhedslisten. So it can be said that we have had this discussion once. So the left is not going to propose further savings on LAG funds nor on the day we were allowed to have government power.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022115848	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Troels Lund Poulsen. Time's up. I shall now suspend the sitting, which will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00 with Mr. René Christensen as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022130006	The meeting will resume, and the next rapporteur is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022130021	Thank you for that, President. Here we are. There have been parliamentary elections, we have had a new social democratic government and a lot of promises to the electorate. This has been the prelude to financial law for 2020, and now we have the proposal here today. It did not come just after the elections, which we all know was on 5 June of this year, and it was not even here when we had Parliament's opening on 2 October. No, actually, it didn't come until 119 days after the parliamentary elections had ended. So there has actually been plenty of time for the Social Democratic Party to come up with a proposal on how the budget for Denmark should look in the future. After all, the Finance Act is the good opportunity to put its policy into the real world, and what is it that we have here today? We have a draft budget in which the Socialists are failing the elderly. There is a significant downgrading of the province, an attack on Danish business and Danish companies also the companies that take a social responsibility. There are several foreigners' concessions with high costs and, last but not least, it will actually be about animal welfare. It's fun to stand and laugh when elephants get a good life in the right place, but when you look at the financial bill, you actually cut 13.5 million. kr. in 2020 on the focus on animal welfare. There's 300 million. kr. more for non-Western immigration, but not one penny for the elderly or one penny for animal welfare or rural areas. It is a government which runs from its agreements and which may also warm up a bit to run from the promise to the Danes to get them an early withdrawal. We are becoming more and more Danes in Denmark. We welcome this in the Danish People's Party. It's gonna take another billion. That is why we are also pleased that one of the support parties, the Socialist People's Party, led by Pia Olsen Dyhr, on May 11th, it is actually only a few months ago that the Danish Radio said: "It is a negotiating requirement with which we will of course go to Mette Frederiksen if she wins the election and I hope she does. It's gonna take 1 billion. kr. more to the elderly area. Rural areas are also under intense pressure in the proposal put forward by the Socialists. Here's the broadband pool canceled. IT interconnection in rural areas is obviously not something that needs to be continued. So it is a death blow to the province. If it is not possible to work or run a business from home, it is not possible to live in the province. That is simply not good enough. It is almost embarrassing that a new government, as one of the first, makes such an attack on the very province. Then there's the field of education. Education is something that takes up the government or does it? The government wants 5% cut. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. It is not a matter of introducing it slowly over a number of years; it is at once. This means, of course, that there are schools especially in the province that will have difficulty and may have to close down. In many rural areas, it is precisely the school of the free school, which unfortunately has arisen in many places, despite the fact that local politicians have closed the local school which is helping to keep away from a farm association, helping to sell your house away, and helping to make rural areas more united. These are the schools that are now being attacked. We do not understand it in the Danish People's Party and hope that it will be changed. Unfortunately, the weakest fellow citizens, those on the edge of the labour market, will also have a ride with the draft budget. It will be much harder in the future for these citizens to find employment opportunities. The Socialists want employers who take social responsibility to be punished. We don't understand. After all, we think that these employers who take social responsibility should have a pat on their shoulders and not be punished. This is the case if the proposal comes through, that if the employee gets sick there is a relatively high risk to the employer in the future, if it is up to the government, in the case of illness, an expense of up to 25%. Bigger than today. Of course, this will mean that fewer companies will take social responsibility, and that is not worthy of it. After all, it is not worthy of those citizens who want to get into employment, even if they have challenges in life. It cannot be right that a social democratic government would in this way prevent such a large group of citizens from entering the labour market, and that, of course, would be the case with a real company. These are real companies. They're real people. They've gotten together, and now you want to make it harder. Fortunately, there are also several trade unions who have gone against this very strongly. Especially the FOA has been quite sharp on this agenda, and we certainly hope that the government will listen to them. The government usually does that, and this time we really think they should listen. But this is not the only attack on Danish companies. It must also be much more expensive and harder to make a generation change. This means that a company will find it harder to survive in connection with something as simple as the owner retires. It cannot be reasonable to make it harder for the owner of carpenters, who has employees who create something, who pay taxes and contribute to the community, to pass on their business to, for example, a son. Animal welfare to get back to it is something that can make this whole hall fall by laughing. When the state free buys out four elephants who appeared in the circus we bought them free because they need a better life then you laugh at it and enjoy it. But it was a very good case, and I know everyone thinks so too. But when you look at the budget bill, there is not much to laugh about. 13,5 million kr. less for animal welfare from next year is what is in the proposal. I do not really see anyone laughing in the Chamber now either. So animal welfare is being reduced, but there is room for new measures, because it was not long before some 300 million had been spent. kr. to non-western immigrants. That was done before the Finance Act was completed. Quota refugees were also very quickly sought after the formation of the government. Denmark must again receive quota refugees, and it is not until 2020, no, it is already this year. That was, in fact, the strict immigration policy. There you just have to ask, when you go in and look at the Finance Act: how much does it cost to pursue that policy? Yes, the immigrant families would be given more money, and that cost 300 million. kr. If you just look at the cost of quota refugees, then by 2020 it will be 190 million. kr., and in 2023 it is barely 0.5 billion. kr. So now we're getting a little up there, we're getting close to the 800 million. kr., which is spent on increased expenditure on non-Western immigration. Of course, in the Danish People's Party this is a huge challenge. When you look at the draft budget, you can see that a lot of cuts are being made in many places. I could also mention such a thing as a pool for lonely elderly people of less than 35 million. kr. a year. It has not been carried on, it has been cut away. But over a number of years 800 million have been found. kr. to non-Western immigration. We really hope that the draft budget will see a marked sign of this! I would also like to say that the Danish People's Party would like to make itself available. We'll be there if you need it. However, we do not see that this draft budget would be an indication of how Denmark is going to be driven forward. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that it is a one-party government, so the proposal we are looking at here is not a compromise; the proposal we are seeing here is merely a suggestion of what the Social Democrat wants Denmark to look like. We have worked well with the Social Democratic Party. I would like to acknowledge that, but we do not know the Social Democratic Party with which we worked before the elections; the Social Democratic Party we cannot recognise after the elections in the draft budget which is here. That is why, of course, we are making our mandates available to correct the draft budget that has been put forward. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022130900	Thank you. There are, of course, a number of comments. The first one is from Mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022130906	Thank you, sir. René Christensen. Now we should not spend time in this Chamber talking away from each other, I think we should try to find out what opportunities there are. For this reason, in recent years I have also welcomed the fact that the Danish People's Party has had a policy in which public consumption will grow in line with demographic developments, i.e. when more elderly people and more children need to be cared for. That's why I'd like to try to search Mr. René Christensen, what the position is at the Danish People's Party today. Because we can look back on the previous government, which did not follow the principle that public consumption should follow demographic trends. And now we have a very specific financial bill from the Social Democratic minority government, where public spending is going to increase by 1.3 per cent, in other words, where public consumption is increasing more than demographic developments really mean. So my question to Mr. René Christensen is whether the Danish People's Party prefers to return to the old government, which could not follow demographic development, or whether you can actually see some good negotiating opportunities together with the Social Democracy, where we really prioritise welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131018	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131020	Well, that depends on what you call welfare. When we see in the draft budget that the cost of non-Western immigration is increased by 800 million. kr., then it is actually the case that it increases public spending. We do not think that is a good thing. We do not think it is positive that we are just spending more money. We think it is positive that we are spending them on the right thing. That is also why we are pleased that the SF will hopefully get through that there will be a billion in the elderly area. In fact, we are getting older and there is a need for an increase in public spending, but the money must be spent on what is right. Just spending the money isn't interesting. It's interesting to spend it on the right thing. It has to be said that when you look at the proposal, it is the rural areas and the elderly who are left behind, and we have to correct that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131103	Let us now focus on the broad lines of this draft budget, because it is precisely that we have concluded agreements with municipalities and regions which give a boost in welfare to the Danes, unlike at the time when the former government underfunded the welfare of municipalities and regions. Can't I just get a clear answer to this brief question I'm asking now? René Christensen and the Danish People's Party prefer to ensure, together with a social democratic government, that welfare can increase in regions and municipalities, or do you want to go back to the trail leading the left, where you underfinance the welfare of the elderly and children's families in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131142	We must recognise those who should be recognised, and this is a very good municipal agreement that the current government has made with the municipalities. We'd like to sign for that. But it is not an agreement that gives a boost; it is an agreement that guarantees the status quo. And if you look out, you see that we get more demented and caring older people. We can see that there are major challenges in primary school. So there is a demand out there in the municipalities that wants more than that, and there we just have to say that we think that the 800 million. kr., which has been found fully funded in the draft budget for non-Western immigration, should have been channelled somewhere else, for example to the elderly area. You only have to find 200 million. kr., because then we'll have the billion we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131218	Thank you. The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131223	Thank you. The Danish People's Party is also one of the parties that recently supported the goal of reducing greenhouse gases by 70%. Could the Danish People's Party be involved in taking concrete initiatives now that the Social Democrats are not taking initiatives to reduce CO2 with this budget bill? Will the Danish People's Party be willing to take concrete initiatives in the future if they join the negotiations on the Finance Act to reduce CO2 Will the Danish People's Party be prepared to give priority to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131304	Yeah, we certainly will. Because when you enter into an agreement that you want to do something, you can't just talk about it and you have to put it into practice. In fact, we also believe that there are things that we can work with, both in the future and also in the short term in relation to climate and the environment, and for that matter also in nature. Of course, there is also some funding in connection with it, but part of it can actually be done for less money. We know, of course, in relation to what nature can do on its own. We have it in terms of planting forests and other things. These are handles that we can turn on and that do not actually cost so much on the short There is no doubt that it is expensive to reach the 70%, but we have to get started at some point. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131345	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131346	Thank you for that confirmation. I'm really glad to hear that. It could also be set-aside that could be set up. I would like to confirm another point, which was also part of the election campaign, where a wide range of parties who adopted this training ceiling decided that it should be demolished now. The Danish People's Party was among the parties. Will it continue to be the case that the Danish People's Party will help tear down the education ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131416	It is the case that the Danish People's Party believes that we should have equal and free access to education at all levels. What we could unfortunately see was these and now I have to watch out for eternity students, and of course there are not so many of them, but they do exist, and it has to be said that the education system is too expensive for that. So if you had to tear it down, it would have to be to build something else up. There have been some shortcomings with regard to people who have some good professional skills in health care and who would like to study with a doctor and so on. But it did. So we want to be involved in an adjustment, but we do not want to go back to the way it was when we could go through the educational system forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131455	Thank you, and the next for a brief comment is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131459	Thank you. I think it is a bit crazy to hear DF kissing the Social Democratic Government about how much money should be delivered to the elderly and to the welfare area in general, when, for the first time in many years, we get a boost, as we can see from the economic agreement with the regions and with the municipalities, and that is a total boost of 1.3 per cent. It is both over the demographic trait that we have talked a great deal about, but it is also over the welfare trait that we are talking about - that is, that our public sector should also keep up with the rest of society. The DF then kisses the government that it is not good enough after years of support for a bourgeois government that has underfunded welfare, including the elderly, so violently that I think it is amazing. My question to DF is about something else that is also really important: where does DF relate to minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131610	I would also like to reply to the first. It's like when you look at this 1.3 percent, you have to look at what the money is used for. There are also some lump sums. I can promise that when the budget bill for 2021 comes, it will not look as it does here, because you finance some intermediate things, among other things. a police settlement where some money is put in, and that of course increases public spending, but it is such one-off amounts that have been put in. So you have to keep that in mind. If you're hoping it could be 1.3%. in the years to come, it probably presents some challenges. Then, of course, I will mention it again: 800 million. kr. So it's just under 1 billion. kr., you are now increasing the cost of non-Western immigration. So that's a lot of money. It was also money that could have been spent on the elderly. However, I recognise and the Danish People's Party recognises that the agreement with the municipalities and regions was a sensible and good agreement. You have to acknowledge that, even when you're up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131659	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131700	And then to my question: does DF support a model on minimum standards? DF has been out saying earlier I think it was in the election campaign that it was supported. If we are still doing so, I would also like to hear whether the DF itself makes any proposals to the Finance Act here, and what kind of funding, i.e. what amount is needed, and whether we also support a minimum model such as that presented by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131735	Well, it's the last part of the question that's interesting, because what kind of model do you get? For a minimum rating can be many things. It can be BUPL's model, or it can be a model with a minimum set by the Folketing, and then it is said that this is exactly what we can stand for in a daycare institution. What you can fear is that if you make that model, it will be the case that once the state has set the level we can accept, it will be an upper level. It is not going to be a strange thing: that this is what the minimum has to be. That's what's going to happen in the real world. So I fear a little for what kind of model you end up with, but we want adults to be present, including in the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131814	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131818	I can hear that the Danish People's Party says that you would very much like to support the area of the elderly, and then I am just surprised, and it makes it quite clear that the Danish People's Party has been the support party for a blue government which, from 2015 to 2019, has agreed on tax reliefs, which will cost almost 22 billion. kr. Every year, while leaving a bill for 2020 of approx. 3.5 billion kr. that the rest of us have to pick up. In our view, the government's draft budget is far too scraped. There is not enough for both the welfare and the green transition, and there is not enough to remedy the deterioration and the eternal cuts that have been on our welfare for the past many years, and which the Danish People's Party has also been behind through economic and financial agreements that have led to it. But is it not the case that there would be more money for the elderly, for minimum standards that Enhedslisten has fought for since 2011, and also for an emergency billion for the psychiatry, which is one of the main requirements of the Enhedslisten for the Finance Act, if it were the case that the box had not been emptied and spent on tax cuts that have mainly benefited the richest, rather than being spent on welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022131927	No, I strongly disagree with that. There you have to understand that the Danish welfare community is tax-financed. Well, we can't just live off each other as public sector employees. After all, we must produce something, we must be competitive, and then we must tax the product that comes out of it. That is why there are a great many of the tax cuts we have made that have been necessary for us to have a welfare society. It is necessary for us that it pays to go to work. I am glad that a Dane who goes to work every day and has a small salary has got a little more out of it because we have been the support party for a blue government. We are pleased that it is worthwhile today to be those who go out and earn money and pay taxes, so we get some money to have proper day care facilities. And that's where the chain jumps off for the Enhedslisten. The Enhedslisten believes that you can push all business out and then get more money for welfare. The challenge is that it means the opposite: if we push out business, we do not have money for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132020	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132022	The fact is that the tax concessions that have been granted have clearly gone to those who already have the most and earn the most. It is money that has not gone to, for example. to strengthen our education system, to strengthen research or to strengthen the welfare society that is the prerequisite for Denmark being one of the most competitive countries in the world. In this way, when you starve welfare and cut down on our welfare societies to spend money on tax cuts and tax reductions, which are primarily of benefit to the richest, then you are hampering growth in society and then you are damaging our competitiveness. It would be more sensible to invest in welfare, but the Danish People's Party chose not to do so, since they were the support party for a blue government. I can just say that's what Enhedslisten is going to work for under the new government here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132105	It can be said that the tax cuts that hit the most socially wrong were those adopted under the former Socialist-led government, where Enhedslisten was a support party. That was among other things. top tax incentives, and it was corporate tax incentives that were financed by the fact that transfer income was not regulated and still not regulated. It is true that they have been implemented under a blue government, because that is how the phase-in period was on the decisions taken under the previous government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132135	Then the next one, with a brief comment, is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132140	Thank you. I would like to hear something from the rapporteur. Now that we have heard a party earlier today excruciating Danish industry very, very hard, I would like to hear where the Danish People's Party is in relation to the expansion of infrastructure in Denmark, where private carism and Danish companies are keeping in line for an amount of approximately 20 billion. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132205-2	It is, of course, the case that the blue parties made an infrastructure agreement just before the parliamentary elections were held, and of course we are on the target for that. There is also full recognition that there are no more 90 mandates for this. But the money is there at least, and we look forward to the new Minister for Transport calling for negotiations, and there we will stick to the plan that we also made with the Conservative People's Party, where we also thought we had distributed it very well, also in relation to the province. We have motorway sections and other sections that have been on the drawing board for more than 30 years, and we hope that, when the funding is available, we will be able to implement it, and we look forward to the negotiations that will take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132241	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132243	Thank you very much. That's a great pleasure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132249	I can just sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132252	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132256	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It's nice that since the election the Danish People's Party has gone from talking about climate freaks to being something that approaches it when you support a 70-percent reduction target by 2030. I would like to hear more about what kind of investments the Danish People's Party believes must be made now and here in order to meet the reduction target that we share.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132322	Yes, the Danish People's Party is crazy about climate. That's the way it is, and that's good enough. What is important to us is that we also get started. That, among other things. can see that in many places there are some infrastructure challenges that apply, among other things. in the PV sector, which is growing significantly. In fact, I think we should think about it now that we are talking about taking low bottom soil and other things out, and see if there are some places where we can actually get more for our money, if there are some places where, instead of using these low bottom soils to produce food, we can use them to produce energy. Then perhaps we should not give so much compensation to farmers, and then we can spend the money elsewhere, possibly for afforestation or something else. These are some of these relatively low-hanging fruits that could be addressed now, but in the long run it is important that we also have our society completely restructured. I mean, we need a lot more electrification than we have today, and we are doing well with our railways and other things, but it just takes time to restructure society, for example. to be more electrified. And there we also have an infrastructure which cannot keep up with the demand, both in relation to households, but certainly also with regard to private carism.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132426	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132427	Yes, it takes time, especially if you sit on your hands and wait to find the investments for it. That is why I would like to ask again: how much money is one willing to take part in travelling for this purpose, precisely to invest in the conversion of public transport and in the acceleration of electrification, etc.? We can't wait for this. When we have a 70-percent reduction target we agree on, what will concrete initiatives be taken? Where is the funding supposed to come from? Are we satisfied with the initiative of the government, or are we going to support some other solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132457	I have made a concrete proposal. We are about to start some housing negotiations on general housing. There are about half a million homes which are from before 1980 and we are suggesting that instead of spending 2.5 billion as it is now. kr. a year to refurbishing energy instead needs 5 billion. kr. a year. The green transition is also about using less energy, and if with this we can get out and grab so many homes • half a million homes • and make them more energetic, then we can move very much. And that is actually not something we have to finance. It is some money that is already there, and it is actually the tenants' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132531	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132534	Thank you. In New Citizens we would like to put the state on a diet; the Danish People's Party would like to feed it even more. In New Citizens we would like to remove the top tax; we understand that the Danish People's Party does not think it is right, and believe that there is no money for it. In New Citizens we want to remove the registration fee; and as I understand it, the Danish People's Party will not help to find the 100 million. kr., so you could put it down to 85%. That is why my question to the Danish People's Party is: if you want to introduce yourself as a bourgeois party, when do you start putting action behind the words? Because in my optics, keeping the world's second highest tax burden and feeding one of the world's largest public sectors can never really be bourgeois economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132616	Then you have to know what bourgeois politics is. Civil policy is, in fact, also to look at the citizens: what are the citizens really asking for, what is it that the citizens want? It is also a civil policy. It is a strange discussion that is, in other words, that you should be a citizen, because you want to lower the registration tax and because you want to lower the top tax. It's a somewhat misrepresented picture of being a citizen. Being a citizen is one of them. also to do what we have done, where we have lowered the tax at the bottom, and where we have looked at how to give a job allowance and other things. It is bourgeois policy to look at how citizens can keep a little more of their money in their pockets. And then you have to remember that the biggest challenge in Denmark is not the top tax it is not the biggest challenge. If you ask business leaders and others who pay top taxes, they say that their biggest challenge is the recruitment of employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132702	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132704	No, one of the biggest challenges we have in Denmark is that the state and parliament year after year force people to deliver really, very much money so that there is no welfare, personal welfare in relation to taking the family a trip to LEGOLAND, or whatever they think, or buy a good car. It is basic core welfare, and it is not only when it is the public that needs money. Therefore, I ask the Danish People's Party: will you perhaps at some point help in a bourgeois coalition to put the state on a diet instead of this automatic reaction to the fact that every time we have to do something, it is about adding even more funds to the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132741	You can look at health care in Denmark and see how it has developed and what we get for the money. There has been a lot more money put into health care in the last 20 years, but we have also got a lot of money for them. I welcome the fact that today we do not need a discussion about whether, if you are 75 years old, you should have a new hip; then you get a new hip because you need it. We in Denmark do not have a discussion about whether one is worthy of it or how many years one has left. After all, we had that discussion at a time when we were going to discuss whether we should put money in our citizens, if we could afford it. Of course, Denmark can afford to have a good health service, and yes, it costs some money, and yes, the Danish People's Party wants to pay for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132815	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132818	Thank you. Some of it, like mr. René Christensen remarked was a good cooperation that we have had between our parties. And I also think there is reason to recall that we have actually managed together to avoid new increases in retirement age; we have managed to avoid new reductions in top tax and other things that we would avoid. And now we want to strengthen, for example. the economy of the municipalities, the benefits of welfare. Therefore, a municipal agreement has been drawn up which only next year strengthens the economy of the municipalities by more than it did during the four years of the previous government's term of office. That is why I would like to hear such an assessment again from the Danish People's Party: if you really care best about the welfare policy in which you benefit the municipalities' opportunity for example. to provide better care for the elderly, or do you like it better as before, where for some years there was definitely minus, but thus a under-funding of the needs of the municipalities? Isn't it better now than it was before, as happened to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022132917	After all, the agreement does not apply until next year, so it will be better next year. But it is true that the agreement negotiated by KL with the government is an excellent agreement. What you just have to remember is that if we see what is happening out there, the municipalities are right now putting budgets in place, you can see that, even if there is a new municipal agreement, there will be savings in the area of older people, and we can also see that savings are being made in the area of primary school. So there's something wrong with the priorities out there. We could actually say there that although we are very, very large supporters of municipal autonomy, I would like to say that very large supporters of the former Socialist-led government made an older billion; we made a dignified billion. It has given a big boost in the area of the elderly, but what we can see now is that as soon as the money gets into the block, some people feel compelled to start cutting it. And there we want it to be a little more firm that this money is actually going to what we want. And it has to be said that the primary school, the children and the elderly are the most important areas when we look at the municipal Denmark map.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133011	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133012	Without it being given as such a single word, I will nevertheless take the answer given by Mr Beazley. René Christensen now, in recognition of the fact that it actually benefits a municipal economy, gave us the opportunity out there to run better schools and day care institutions and care for the elderly when we take the course that this government is taking from next year, as Mr. René Christensen rightly points that out. The same question could actually be asked in relation to the regions. The region's own negotiator, the Leftwoman Stephanie Lohse, says that it is the best regional agreement that has been made for the regions in the last 10 years. Is Mr. René Christensen also agrees with the assessment that with the new course there will actually be a better economy for the regions, for example. for the elderly in health care than with the previous course?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133058	Just around the regions it is simply factually wrong. In the past, there have been agreements with the regions where there was more money than there is in the agreement that has been made, although it is also a good agreement that has been made now. But it is not the best in 10 years for the regions, it is not. What may then just wonder is that, on the one hand, the Social Democrats say that now you want to lift the school area, that you want to lift the municipal Denmark. Why, on the other hand, do you sit on the other side of the world and say: the small private and free schools that are in rural areas, we are going for; not with a re-priority contribution, but with 5%, which you take from one day to the next. It's a death blow to these schools, which means a lot in the local area where they are. We do not understand why with one hand you pay well, and with the other hand you pull the blanket away.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133140	Thank you. The next short remark is Mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133140-2	Thank you. I would like to follow up Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's question on minimum standards. In the election campaign, the Danish People's Party was chairman, Mr. Peter Skaarup, out of saying that it had been a bit of an eye-opener to see the documentary that showed how few adults there are for the children in the Danish day care institutions. And then Mr. Peter Skaarup actually that now DF was willing to take control from Christiansborg and make minimum standards. Sir. Peter Skaarup did not mention what model it was supposed to be, or how much money should be dropped off, so that's really what I'm a little curious to hear. First, I think I would just like to ask: does the Danish People's Party have the same attitude now as in the election campaign, namely that it is open to introducing minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133229	We are very open to the need for an adequate number of staff, including in day-care institutions. I would just like to say that the questioner knows very well that if you take that model from BUPL, then it costs 3.3 billion. kr. a year. That's what it costs. This is also going to happen to the SF. And that is why I say that it will not be the 3.3 billion model. kr., SF gets through. That is why we are afraid that we will have a model that simply has too low a level, because then we will have such a level where we in the municipal councils can say that it is up to what the state has adopted as a minimum, so that it can be very good. However, we agree with the SF that there are day institutions where standards are too low. They are too bad, and we are in agreement on that, and we need to find solutions to that. And that is also our responsibility, even though we are sitting in the Chamber and not sitting in the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133327	It was one step closer, and it was quite interesting, because then Mr. René Christensen has to be minimum standards that improve the state of the day institutions around Denmark, and I would, of course, like to take part in that. And what I really want is just to find out what the policy of the Danish People's Party is. Since the Danish People's Party has said that they would like to introduce minimum standards, what is it necessary for the Danish People's Party to be satisfied with minimum standards? And if there's something I want to love, it's being in a bidding war with the Danish People's Party about what the minimum standards should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133359	Well, you've won that in advance, because you've fully financed the 3.3 billion. kr. Every year, and we don't have that in the Danish People's Party. So you've already won it. I just want to say that this isn't new to us. We also did it with dignity billionaires. We funded 1 billion. kr. Fully. We added it to the municipalities, and then we told the municipalities that it should be added to the budgets that they had in 2016 and that they should add the money, and they should go to the elderly area. So we've been there before. We just said it when we had financed it in full. You can't ask questions from up here, but it gets interesting when SF comes up here on the platform and then says where the 3.3 billion. kr. Come from. Because they are not in the government's proposal, so they must be in the SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133435	Then it's mr. Jeppe Bruus for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133438	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The rapporteur said: we cannot know the social democracy from before the elections now after the elections. I would actually like to try to reflect on the Danish People's Party in relation to the public consumption. In the last four years, the Danish People's Party has voted for an increase in public consumption of 0.2 per cent, 0.7 per cent, 0.7 per cent respectively. 0.8% and 0.8%. We have then put forward a proposal on 1.3 per cent. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has then said: well, there are things you use, including child benefit. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: can the rapporteur not confirm that child benefit does not count in the 1.3 per cent, as it is a transfer and not public consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133523	I can, but I can also say that there will be less than half a billion kroner for quota recipients, and then you haven't counted in here what these additional benefits give out of influx. It was the case that during the previous government and with the votes of the Danish People's Party we had a large number of restrictions in the legislation on foreigners, which made it less attractive to come to Denmark. We now fear that these relaxations will be so quietly introduced, and that will make it more attractive to come to Denmark. Then the costs increase significantly, and so do they in the municipalities. It is only the first three years that they are fully financed; then it is a municipal expenditure.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133559	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133601	Thank you for that confirmation. At least that was part of what was the answer earlier to the same question. And then let me just ask the question again about the discussion: is the Danish People's Party somewhere else today, than the Danish People's Party has been in the last four years, understood in the sense that the Danish People's Party now recognises and supports a proposal that actually has a higher public consumption, i.e. an increase of 1.3 per cent, contrary to what the Danish People's Party voted for before the elections, namely a significantly lower increase in public consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133629	I would like to say that the Danish People's Party does not want us just to spend more money. We don't think it's interesting just to throw a billion dollars out the window... we could actually just do that and say that public spending has increased significantly. We want to spend it on what we think is important, and we think, among other things, that such things as care for the elderly are important. More is needed because we are getting more care-intensive elderly people. We think primary school is important. We actually have one of the world's best folk schools... also one of the most expensive... and yet it's just about 20 percent. of the students who do not get 2 in Danish and mathematics every year. We have to do better than that. That's why we need the money in the right places. We don't just need it to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133702	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133708	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that he mentioned earlier in an answer to my colleague, Mr Seligman. Rune Lund's 2012 tax agreement that the tax agreement was Enhedslisten was not part of, and as far as I remember, we were quite a bit more cocky about the agreement than the Danish People's Party was. However, the rapporteur can confirm this. In addition, the rapporteur has waltzed around this with the Danish People's Party and the funding of welfare. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to take another trip in that dance. It is the case that some economic agreements were made with the municipalities and regions back in September. If we take the regional agreement, it was not a flashy agreement, but the regions, after all, had their costs covered for the demographic move and the rising cost of medicine, and 11⁄2 billion was allocated. kr. in the agreement this year, where the agreement last year, of which Dansk Folkeparti was also a part, was allocated 1 billion. kr. Nevertheless, the rapporteur said at the time that many would be disappointed by that agreement. kr., than there were patients, relatives and employees who were disappointed by the one billion kroner that Dansk Folkeparti helped to sell.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133823	There were two questions. Firstly, I can confirm that Enhedslisten was not part of the 2012 Tax Agreement. I remember it clearly, and it was right here in front of the door, that it was said that the voters are being pissed off if you have to say so from the platform, sorry, but at least it was said on TV. I can also confirm that the Danish People's Party was not part of it, and we have also not voted in favour of it afterwards in relation to the implementation of that agreement. Okay, that's it. In relation to the second, you just have to remember that although the agreement you have made with both regions and municipalities is a good one and we also recognise that it only maintains the status quo, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned earlier in an answer. So you don't get a better dementia action plan out of the fact that an agreement has been made with the municipalities, you don't get through the hospitals anymore, but you can get through what you also got through yesterday. So it is an excellent agreement, but it is not such an agreement where you see that you now have a completely different health care system or some quite other municipalities because you have made the agreement you have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133912	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133913	Then I have to say that I am less optimistic than the rapporteur, because I do not think this is a good agreement. I think that this is an acceptable agreement in which the regions receive exactly the extra costs they have. However, the rapporteur cannot confirm that with the agreement made this year substantially more money has been allocated to the health services, that is to say to the staff, to the staff, to the patients, not in relation to the level being raised, but in relation to the fact that, after all, we are keeping the status quo; contrary to the agreements reached in previous years, for example. last year, when only 1 billion was set aside. kr., and where, after all, 11⁄2 billion has been set aside this year. kr., even if it is by no means flashy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022133949	It is actually very funny that we should be discussing this now, because it can be said that this is not a debate, neither Enhedslisten nor any other party has been a part of. It is always the Minister for Finance and the KL who have this discussion at all times. And it is the case that once they have concluded the agreement, the majority will vote in favour of it here in the Assembly. That's the way it is. It is not an agreement that has been part of as such; it is the contractual system that we have where KL agreements with the current government. So it's not a room we've been inside. Yes, we welcome the fact that money has been targeted, among other things. to get a better primary school that is targeted at money for better care for the elderly, and there is targeted money for better health care. We are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134028	Thank you. The next short remark is Mr. Nils Sjøberg of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134032	Thank you. The rapporteur points out that the Danish People's Party does not just want to throw 1 billion. kr. Out the window. If you look at what Detector has calculated border controls to cost, it is a nice piece over a billion. kr. I would like to hear from the rapporteur how he will justify the fact that it is a good idea to spend money on border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134101	Border control is one of the biggest victories we have had in the Danish People's Party. We are a nation state and, of course, we must guard our borders. It's important to us. We could also have had a debate in here that we were all outraged by the sale of hashish in front of schools. Already in the 7th grade they can buy hash out front. What a terrible thing it is! But why on earth aren't we standing down at the border and stopping them and getting it ripped out of the cars? Why on earth do we not make it harder for Eastern European gangs who go to Denmark and do crime? That is why we have also had money set aside for border controls. There's no doubt that this money is really, really well spent. And it has to be said that security is border control, and we are very happy that we have it, and we also hope that it will remain there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134135	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134136	Thank you. We agree that security means a lot. However, if we point out that only four out of 15 border controls are manned 24 hours a day, and we are aware that, as I have said, more than 1 billion have been spent so far. kr. In the case of border controls alone, it is the four places where 1.4 million are spent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I certainly think this is a bad idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134226	It's been amazing. When we haven't taken anyone who's had people in the trunk, it's because it's worked. It has had the effect that they have chosen Denmark from. We have been able to look at the entry figures as well. There have not been many who have applied for asylum in Denmark, among others. Because we've had border controls. I must also say that it is simply not correct to say that the Danish police force is at the border. It's a very limited number of cops on the border. After all, it is the Home Guard that is doing it now, and in the future it will be politicians who will be at the border. So it is very limited what goes on in terms of police resources for our border controls today.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134304	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134307	Thank you. The chairman of the Danish People's Party has previously mentioned that the Danish People's Party will target any tax cuts towards the bottom of our society. The AE has shown that the tax exemption of employer-paid telephones is distributed fairly unequally in our society. 84% of those with the highest income have free telephony and of employees with a salary of less than DKr 300,000. has only 5%. Free telephony. In other words, in a purely geographical sense: In Hørsholm has 40%. of employees free of charge, and at Lolland it is 8 per cent. It is thus a tax relief that benefits more at the top than it benefits at the bottom. Does the Danish People's Party agree to cancel the tax exemption and instead invest in welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134403	It could also be turned around and asked: why on earth would the rapporteur insist that there is only 5%? of those in employment who are low-paid who do not have the opportunity to get this good thing? Why on earth should it only be the high-paid people who have the opportunity to get a telephone as part of their work? If there isn't a tax on this, frankly, this will be an ordinary part that you will get. Then it will also be the case that the carpenter's turn, who is now using his own phone to call back and forth, will probably have a phone made available. This is not, of course, linked to the taxation on telephones today. It is also far too expensive for the cost of a telephone. If you removed this, it would be a very common good, as there was when you were in employment, because you are available today. Although you have 37 hours of work per week, there are a lot of people who feel obliged and want to be available to their employer and that you can get in touch with them, and it is quite fair that this is done via a company phone. But that's what you want to stop, so it only has to be 85%. It is not possible for those with the lowest incomes to have it as part of their jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134505	Mrs. Tanja Larsson.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134506	Thank you. It was somewhat unclear to me, I would say to the rapporteur: will the Danish People's Party vouch for helping to cancel the tax exemption, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134517	Well, what's the consequence of that? After all, the rapporteur wants it to be the case that you have to pay tax on free telephone. Then it is the case that for some it does not mean so much, and it is true, as has been said, that it is they who have the highest positions and the highest incomes. The amount is fixed, and to them it does not mean so much to be taxed. For those who have small incomes, it is far too expensive to get a mobile phone from their employer because taxation is far too high. That is why the rapporteur will insist that those who have the highest salaries should be given free telephones and those who have the lowest should not be given free telephones. We think we should change that, and that is why there should be no taxation on telephones.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134551	Then it's mr. Kasper Sand Kjær for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134556	Thank you. I would like to return to the issue of public spending and the rapporteur's view of the government's draft budget. If you like the board, it may be that you do not agree with everything that has been proposed, such as increases in public spending, which together turn into 1.3 per cent, but when you compare with the last four years of fiscal legislation, which has had a significantly lower level of public spending and thus much less investment in welfare, that is, when you balance it all against each other, does the rapporteur prefer the economic policy that has been pursued over the last four years with savings in welfare, or the economic policy that the new government is setting up to invest in welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134635	I would always prefer a blue majority where the Danish People's Party is part of it. I'd prefer that at any time. Then I would also like to say again that one should be careful not to get into such a parliamentary rhythm as to look at percentages and say that as long as we spend some money, we are all happy. It's not really like that. I do not think anyone is sitting in this Chamber now who has any idea what it will cost in the future. If we become a more interesting country to come to as a refugee/immigrant, then the cost can rise significantly. Then you can rejoice and say: Oh, now public spending is not 1.3 per cent, now it is 1.4 per cent. But if it is because you spend the money on something that we do not think you should spend it on, then we are not really happy that public spending has increased. So it's the content that's interesting. It's not interesting just to spend the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134723	Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134725	But will the rapporteur not accept on the content that welfare will probably be given a greater boost with the financial law that the government has put forward here than welfare has been given for the last four years with the votes of the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134739	I can tell you that KL has been a very good man at squeezing the government. However, when it comes to the draft budget tabled by the Social Democratic Party, I would just like to say that I find it rather embarrassing. The elderly are not mentioned in a word, there is not one penny for the elderly, there is not one penny for the primary school. So that is the proposal put forward by the Social Democrats. When it comes to the deal you made, where KL sat and squashed, you made a fine and okay agreement in relation to the municipalities' finances. However, the financial bill that we are discussing here is certainly not in order in relation to the points that the rapporteur would like to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134809	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. René Christensen. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022134820	Thank you. Like many others, I have just spent my autumn vacation with my two sons. We were the three of us alone in London on a Harry Potter trip like that. It's highly recommended, it was amazing. But we also shared a room. I don't do that every day with my kids, so I watched them fall asleep every night on this trip. And it's you who have kids that have a very special thing to watch your kids fall asleep. You look at them, you hope you can give them all the love and all the security they need; that they must be well and that there will be plenty of opportunities for them. And so I wish that when all parents in Denmark put their children to sleep, they can do so with a basic certainty that we elected here to the Danish Parliament are constantly working for something to be done about the real challenges. And we look at them differently, and we also have different solutions, but all those parents must feel that we are there for them, so that their children really have more opportunities, no matter what their background. That is my hope, and it is also my aim to be in politics. And I think that is really, very many people's hopes. So the election of the Parliament gave rise to the hope, the hope of getting Denmark in a new direction, the hope that politics can make a difference again, and the hope that we in the Parliament can deliver the change, the security, the opportunities that so many people are thirsting for; another focus of politics, where everything is not about undermining our fundamental rights, where we do not let ourselves be divided as people, and where we do not make small problems in the name of symbol policy big and, on the other hand, leave the big problems unresolved. And in the first measurement after the election, we saw that the Danes' confidence in politicians did not increase so much, certainly not enough to make up for decades of fall in this trust. But it shows that there is a hope that politics can be about really taking hold with the big problems and giving really more opportunities to everyone. And that is what this Finance Act is also about for us: moving from hope to action so that we show all citizens that we take their expectations very seriously. And if the Danes' hope is to become real trust, it requires that they experience changes that can be felt and measured not in a long time, but now And therefore we have set clear targets for tangible, tangible changes that are to be made a reality in this reign: Less CO2 And the goals and a number of other very concrete goals we have set and we will not wait to pursue them. We want to get started right away. Is it gonna be hard to reach? In other words, the level of ambition of the Socialists in their financial legislative proposals is to be overlooked, but then the others must be all the more ambitious, because the citizens cannot be consumed with tactics and polemics. And that is why we look forward to moving forward with the financial law negotiations, because the Danes should not experience that we spend the first half of this reign first taking the courage to deliver that change. I can't do that. Climate requires action now, education has been starved long enough, and parents who have gone on the streets for more educators should know that we have heard them. Integration needs to be refocused, culture needs to be helped, and the Finance Act is a tool for making hope into action. And that's why the change has to start with this financial law. We are also obliged to ensure a responsible economy, and although things are going well in the Danish economy right now, there are many things around us that create uncertainty. And that is what we know from our children in the past, and it will be the vulnerable who pay the price if we are not prepared to cope with a decline in the world economy or if we push the economy to the limit. That is why it is also a fundamental task for us to pursue a responsible economic policy, in which we also take care that our companies can have the qualified employees they need and that the conditions for running a business are good. And this is the prerequisite for the companies to flourish and they can be active players in Denmark's further development in the green transition. With our draft budget, we show that tangible and tangible changes can be made now; we do not have to wait. It is clear that the biggest challenge of our time is climate change: poles that melt; temperatures that break records. And that's why we're saying now the Finance Act is going to be used to make car and aircraft greener now And the air needs to be cleaner now That's why we have a ship loaded with green proposals. We will invest 3.5 billion. kr. in green initiatives, including: in the procurement of vulnerable farmland, future protection of electric cars, green company cars, money for forest, wild nature reserves. The green proposals in our Finance Act must be measurable by CO2 4.5 million will be delivered. In 2030, with this financial bill, Denmark is moving towards the goal of 70% CO2 of the 19 per cent we are missing. We can if we want. And we need to have historical support for the green transition right now. It is driven by especially young people; with life-affirming energy they insist on green conversion. We must maintain this by acting on the hope of cleaner air, water and food, more nature and better lives for people. These are also new opportunities for Danish business. The green transition is also the chance for a freer and a stronger Denmark. We are already begged to set such an ambitious target that both business and pension funds support. It is excellent that it needs to be done, and we can do it together, even together here in the Folketing. But it's also gonna be the kids' and the kids' turn with this finance bill. Away with the crazy symbol policy and in with the focus on the most important: next generation. Policy is a priority, and we are on the side of the children because we have for too long been sawing in the branch on which our future rests with starved education, with less research, with pressured educators and teachers and stressed and neglected children and young people. And we're gonna make that right now. to primary school, 500 million. kr. • minimum standards for next year and 1 billion for next year. kr. the following year and not just a stop to the re-priority contribution to youth education; we will reinvest 230 million. kr. in the sector this year, so that we can help where they are having a really difficult time. For our children and young people, presence, more and better educated educators, more time for teachers, youth education throughout the country deserve. Then we have prioritised research with a new billion, because it is not enough just to launder funds that have already been set aside; more money is needed. It takes priority to act. We prioritise much higher ambitions for the green transition and for our children and young people, for a rich cultural life and for opportunities throughout Denmark. It takes money, but it also requires people, and we will not get very far with money if what is really missing is available hands. That is why it is so crucial that our economic policy contributes to more people entering the labour market and that Danish companies have better opportunities to recruit internationally when they need it. With our financial bill, we increase the supply of labour by about 2,000 people. We do, among other things. by dropping the senior job scheme, which pulls seniors out of the ordinary labour market; by giving people's pensioners full set-off so that they can work as much and as long as they want, without being drawn into a national pension; by doubling the job allowance and increasing the employment allowance, so that we lighten the tax on work, especially at the bottom; and by promoting entrepreneurship and giving companies a larger research allowance, so that we get many more new ideas and solutions. Because we're in a hurry. We will not simply manage power. The emerging hope that has been created out there with the election is fragile, and if we let it down again, then we should not look far beyond Denmark's borders to see what the consequence can be. Green now means
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135844	Thank you. And we now begin with the brief remarks, and the first is from Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135851	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Carsten Nielsen for her speech. I believe that the radical party chairman, Morten Østergaard, has said that this financial law must be the greenest in Danish history, and I therefore wonder whether Sofie Carsten Nielsen could make his comments on whether, in the opinion of the Radical Left, it is also an expression of the greenest draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135916	Yes, the radicals' draft Finance Bill is the greenest financial bill in the history of Denmark. I think I can sign that. 7 percentage points. The Socialist Finance Bill, on the other hand, has not come this far on that reduction, so we intend to help them so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135934	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022135936	Thank you. Another issue which the Radical Left has also taken an interest in is the whole question of the generational tax and the whole discussion that has taken place, and I also know that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen took part in a debate here recently at the Danish Industry, I think it was. What is the view of the Radicals in relation to the draft budget now on the table, and does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen share some of the concerns expressed by a large number of companies and organisations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140005	Thank you for the question. Indeed, we share the concerns, and we must recognise that the error occurred back in 2015, when we ourselves were in government. For us, it is much more than the percentage of how to determine the value of a company. It must be transparent, there must be clarity about it and companies must be able to count on it. That is why we need to find a proper model, and I really hope that the Left will take part in it, because then we will also be able to create continuity and something that companies will be able to count on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140041	Thank you. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140047	It is always interesting when it is the Radicals who are on the platform. When you have a social democratic government, the Radicals tend to be able to manage things with relatively tough hands. My first question is about the percentage of interconnections in private and free schools and the attitude of the Radicals on this, because in the draft budget there is a significant 5% cut here. Do you radicals have it as a requirement that there should not be? Because the consequence will of course be that some of these private and free schools, which are located in rural areas, will have some economic challenges. So my question is: how do you radicals react to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140126	It will not be with radical votes that there will be a vote in favour of lowering the coupling rate for free schools in Denmark. We are very much in favour of the school model we have. We would like to help to see whether and how free schools can take greater social responsibility where this does not happen, but we have no plans at all to put votes to lower the coupling rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140151	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140153	Thank you. It was joyful. So for something that is perhaps not so pleasing, at least seen by the Danish People's Party: it is the case that swimming competitions and other events are being held around Lindholm Island, and it is also the case that the government has decided that there should not be an exit centre there. So I would like to ask the Radicals: where is the exit centre to be? After all, we still have the challenge that these about 75 people on tolerated stays have to be somewhere. Today they are running freely in Denmark, and I do not assume that the Radicals want that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140223	That's a good question. Thank you. We are extremely pleased that the extremely expensive solution that Lindholm is has been cancelled. We ourselves have put forward a proposal that the group referred to by the rapporteur, for example. could be in Soulsmark when the children and families come out of there, but it is the government that has to come up with a model for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140247	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140253	Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech and thank you for a good and insistent look at the green transition. In the SF we are as busy as the Radicals that we need climate action now. We are also concerned that this is happening with a social balance. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's reasons for having removed the green cheque in the financial bill which I am at least familiar with from the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140323	That's right. We propose to remove the green cheque and then fully compensate all those who are pensioners or on early retirement. We propose to remove the green cheque because it was introduced to compensate for some electricity taxes that have since been lowered. In addition, we propose to further lower the electricity tax in our draft budget so that it will actually be cheaper for an ordinary LO family.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140355	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140358	According to the AE figures, this would be a significant cost of 50 per cent. of those with the lowest incomes in Denmark. Are the Radicals not worried that, when you make such a move, you might end up giving the bill for this green transition to those who have the least in society, rather than giving it to those we actually know have the greatest CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140426	Well, we also have lots of CO2 so those suggestions are here too. When we propose to abolish the green cheque here and, by the way, compensate some of them with the lowest income, pensioners and early retirement pensioners, it is because we want fewer of these kinds of different schemes. Our bid is to lower the electricity tax even more so that it will actually be cheaper for an ordinary LO family as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140503	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mrs Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140511	Thank you. I would also like to sign for a very fine speech and a financial act with really big green ambitions. I would like to ask about nature, because it is not only the climate that is in crisis, it is also our nature. And I can see that the Radicals also write something about nature in their financial legislation. I am glad that priority is given to creating a national park, the one in Gribskov, which is being proposed. This was a proposal put forward by Enhedslisten in 2015 for which there was no support, so we fully support that. But do Radicals really think that it is urgent that one national park should be enough every year? Should we not go much faster, because nature is also in crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140600	Well, we're happy to be able to adopt good policy once it's developed. All honour must be given from here to those who get good ideas, including about nature parks. Yeah, we're happy to work even faster. This is our suggestion of how to phase in such a plan to have ten national parks in 10 years' time anyway it is fast. But all good suggestions in this direction are welcome. We would like to work with the Enhedslisten to get the Social Democratic Party to listen a little more to it than there was just room for in their own financial act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140640	Mrs. Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140642	Thank you. We are proposing 15 national parks in four years, so we are very busy on that front. But something else I would also like to ask in this category is about the sea, because it is not mentioned in the financial bill. It is also part of nature, but some of it that we rarely see or bite so much. But the sea and portrait are also in crisis. Is this something that the Radicals want to give priority to, including in the financial legislation negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140709	We are also happy to listen to good proposals in the field of nature and the marine environment. I know that both our nature rapporteur and the climate rapporteur are very concerned about the yes, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140721	Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140725	Thanks for a nice speech. I have read with great interest the financial legislative proposals of the Radicals, and I would like to ask a few questions about the tax increases proposed by Radicals. There are some of those who, in isolation, make very good sense to some green taxes, which we might also be able to support but what concerns me a little is that the sum of all the tax increases that are included in the Radicals' proposal, I get to be approx. 3.8 billion kr. Then there are some tax concessions, among others. an employment allowance of approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr. But the bottom line is that the Radicals go out and propose that taxes should rise in Denmark. More tax increases are proposed than tax reductions are proposed. And then my question is: when has Radicals become a party that is fighting for the tax to be higher in Denmark, that is, higher than what the Social Democrats have played out with? We normally consider Radicals to be the ones who have to ensure that a responsible policy is pursued in the red bloc and that a little bit of money is being held back.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140829	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Jarlov has also noticed that we facilitate the tax at work. For us in the Radical Left, it is absolutely crucial that we try to bring down the tax on what we want more of; on the other hand, we are not reluctant to raise the tax on what we want less of. And we would like less CO 2 Rasmus Jarlov's possible support for some of the green taxes as a real green transition in itself. We need to bring about the change and all the green taxes we have proposed here are helping to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140917	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140919	Thank you, but that was not the answer to my question at all, because I am asking when Radicals have become a party that is working for taxes to rise when proposing more tax increases than are being proposed. We no longer have a red-block bulwark against an irresponsible economic policy if Radicals are also a party working to pull the Social Democracy to the left and for there to be more taxes than the Social Democracy itself proposes. Where, then, is the responsibility in the red block? A lot of people have voted for Radicals because they thought that Radicals would help to ensure that the money was stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022140954	They can be quite calm because we are pursuing an economically responsible policy, and we will always be the guarantor of that. But I simply believe that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov and I look at it differently. We want to lighten the tax at work, and we do, and our draft budget shows that we can have both towering green ambitions and ambitions for education and children and lighten the tax on work at the same time, because it is more important where people make an effort, but where we need to change and change behaviour, it is money that is now here, but hopefully not there in the long term because we need to change behaviour.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141031	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141037	Thank you. Radical Left wants to abolish the housing job scheme and spend the money on more public spending. The radical tax rapporteur, Mrs Kathrine Olly, one day called it a wealthy allowance, which will now be removed, and that is where I have to give the rapporteur a call from the point of view of reality. For one of the things that Radicals in the municipalities, for example. It has helped to decide what is called sewer separation, that is to say, that it requires homeowners to separate sewers on their property. It's expensive, it's terribly expensive, it can easily cost $50,000. for each home owner. This is something that particularly affects families with children who have just moved into their house. When I was in Aarhus City Council, I personally received emails from families who had trouble lifting this bill, and there was the housing job scheme one of the rescue boats they had in order to be able to afford to pay this bill. I know you lighten your taxes at work, but it's not nearly enough to cover these bills. So what is Radicale's response to the children's families who have large bills in the coming years to be lifted in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141152	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141157	It is interesting that a rapporteur from here supports a public subsidy at a time of fairly prosperous economy and labour shortages. But what we are doing is doing with completely, completely open eyes: we want to abolish this deduction now; we ourselves helped to introduce it in a time of crisis because it is a crisis tool. Denmark is no longer in crisis now. And this means that we can push an overheating into the labour market, and we think that money can be spent far, far better and, among other things, better. to ease the tax on work.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141232	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141234	That's very nice, but it wasn't exactly the answer to the homeowners, the families of children who have just moved into their houses and who can now expect a bill of DKK 50,000 that this scheme helped to lift a part of. What's the answer to them now?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141252	Of course, anyone who buys a house must be aware of the costs involved. We have a large number of initiatives which will make it easier to be a family for children in Denmark too, and it is clear that this scheme will then be abolished, and then you will not get subsidies for it. On the other hand, we can look forward to a wide range of better conditions for our children in the day institutions, at school and at youth education when they may even need to be further educated or in vocational training at all. It is, after all, a priority, a general political priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141326	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141330	Thank you. After all, all debate will be best if you speak the same language and do not exaggerate, but stay on an objective track. That is why I am sorry that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen is talking about poor children in Denmark. The family allowances which Radicals have helped to agree on in order to compensate families under the ceiling on cash benefits are not aimed at poor families. So, a single parent who lives with a cash aid ceiling and who has a child has money at his disposal, namely DKK 15,100. a month after tax. It's not poverty. So why is it that the radical rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, insists on sounding like an echo of the Enhedslisten in such a case where, with her radical background, she could well be more factual?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141432	I'm just about to say mirror to mr. Ole Birk Olesen. You also have to be where the families have the hardest time. I actually think that the newly elected President of Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's party in the opening debate had some really fine and nuanced reflections about the fact that it is more than money that is needed to bring children's families into the community. Families with children are having a really, really difficult time in Denmark. I agree with Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's chairman in. But I do not agree that we do not have poverty in Denmark. We have a poverty line. It is not one that the government has yet wanted to help define, but it exists. And there are children and families in Denmark who find it extremely difficult because their services were cut so hard that they can't be part of quite basic things.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141537	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141539	I fully agree with my leader, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, in that the primary problem in the families we are talking about here is not a lack of money, but a lack of ability to organise family life in a sensible way. And then the question is: why should we not talk about it instead of claiming that the families are poor? I would now like to put the question specifically to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen so that she will not be able to answer her question again: is 15,100 kr. to a single parent with a child under the cash ceiling poverty according to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen? And if it is not poverty, why does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen keep referring to it as poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141623	Because it's about what you're dealing with relatively and what the costs are. Sir, I'm afraid so. Ole Birk Olesen then agree. There are children and families who do not have access to basic things in Denmark, who cannot participate in the community and who cannot even get clothes and food. We have seen this in a large number of studies. I'm worried about that. This does not mean that we should not also discuss what other problems these families have; how we help them into the community and what we can do to ensure that they can take far more care of themselves? Because that's what the target is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141700	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141705	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for a good speech from here, and thank you for your cooperation. We have also read the Radical Left's financial bill. One of the points that is being made is that efforts are being stepped up in the field of foreign policy, focusing on green diplomacy, but also on the Arctic. We find this very interesting, because there is no doubt that the attention that has come to Greenland for the past few years has really drawn a picture that we need to strengthen the effort. So it might be interesting to have a little more words about what you actually think it might be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141740	Thank you for the question. As Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen will know, we also have an Arctic rapporteur in the Radical Left in Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and we have just the Arctic in our financial act, certainly not with expenditure that should be prioritised or spent this year, but actually with initiatives we want to decide this year within the framework of the additional allocation of 1.5 billion. kr. set aside in the defense settlement. Because it is extremely important to have some of those decisions taken now so that you can see what we are dealing with. Some of the priorities are, of course, among others. to set aside money for coherent IT. It is about preparedness and civil communication, in other words also about geopolitical surveillance at the Arctic and so this is a research ship, which DTU, the Technical University of Denmark, has, and which is incredibly important, also for Denmark. So these are two of our specific priorities this year, but in general they are a priority for the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141850	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141852	Thank you for your answer. Another point that Radicals make in its draft budget is, after all, the area of foreign policy. One might say that it is a foreign policy system that has been starved, at least challenged over the last few years. So to strengthen diplomatic efforts, including those in the Arctic, we certainly see a great need for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141917	Well, thanks for the support. That's right. We have also set aside 75 million. kr. to strengthen the Danish foreign service and green diplomacy, which will of course also be an opportunity to bring understanding and knowledge of the Arctic. It is very, very much needed in an external service which has not only been cut to the bone, but also completely into it. Because it is in Denmark's interest that we take care, yes, of our interests in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141948	The next brief remark is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022141954	Thanks for the speech. I think it was a speech which expressed not only the hopes of the people in the eyes of the Radicals, but also the hopes of the Radicals, and of course one must be allowed to do so. But I would like to ask you something concrete about what we see in terms of results. After all, before the elections, we have concluded an agreement on a senior pension, a senior pension, which should ensure a better opportunity to retire earlier if you are worn out. It is my impression that, as part of the understanding paper, the Radicals had the Socialists accept this retirement pension. But I understand that now the Social Democratic Government has chosen to remove the money to finance this senior pension. That is why I would like to hear from the Radicals what the Radicals are saying about the action of the Socialist Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142047	That's right, you can always speculate a little bit about what it was like the money was set aside, and then it went back into the box and something like that. It's been seen before. On the other hand, I am counting on the Social Democratic Party to support this senior pension agreement, which means that we will of course find the money for it. After all, we are all obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142112	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142114	Thank you. As part of the senior pension scheme, we agreed that the money from Additional Tier 1 capital should go to senior pension. It has disappeared out of the re-submission of the bill that it should go to senior retirement. So if you do not actually do something, there is no funding for it. Will the Radicals see it as a support for a senior pension scheme by the Social Democratic Government that there is no longer funding for senior pensions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142136	We in the Radical Left will ensure that there is funding for the senior pension agreement so that it can become something, and this must happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142146	Then it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142151	Thank you. Now, we have just opened a new section of the metro in Copenhagen. However, the opening followed in the wake of a series of cases, both of totally irresponsible working conditions, of massive breaches of the 11-hour rule, of vertical fraud of payrolls covering 60 hours of work weeks, but recorded as 37 hours of work weeks, which shows that both working time rules and collective wage agreements and such things are not being observed. Labour law imposes fines and post-payment claims of billions. And then the question comes because, in the light of the experience of a publicly funded infrastructure project, I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the Radicals will help to allocate funds to the Finance Act to increase government efforts in relation to social dumping.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142250	We are open to this and are generally concerned about combating social dumping. So good proposals in the direction on which we can agree are open to us. We have been in the past, and we have previously, together with the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats and the SF and others, set aside money for it and were also sad that that effort was downgraded earlier. So we would very much like to see now I have not seen it specifically help to see how we can strengthen the effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142322	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142326	I would then like to be a little more specific, because this is both a matter of resources for the control of the authorities themselves, for example. Through RUT-registered and through ID cards for the employees, but it is also about increased funds for both the Danish Labour Inspectorate and the Danish Tax Authority for that purpose. After all, we must be aware that since 2015 appropriations have fallen by 15%, despite the fact that the number of foreign workers and companies has increased by over 40% over the same period. So the question is whether it can only go too slowly.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142403	Now the Socialists have been given proposals to strengthen the tax administration. We also agreed earlier, even during the previous reign, to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. It took a long time, and I have also been an employment rapporteur during that period, so that there should be a good push. But something came there and we are open to looking at how we can further strengthen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142429	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142436	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about what I think the rapporteur has previously expressed as the lack of economic engine in the government's draft budget. What is the rapporteur's position at a time of brexit, recession in Germany, Donald Trump in the United States, who is constantly waging trade wars over the Atlantic, about the lack of initiatives to make Denmark richer, to strengthen employment, which is to be the economic engine in Denmark? How does the rapporteur view the lack of this in the government's draft budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142513	Yes, that is correct, I have expressed it and remain puzzled that there are no more ambitions in the Socialists' proposals. But I would like to refer to the Radical Left's proposal, which has a number of initiatives. An increased investor allowance, or indeed to bring forward the agreement we have even made with the rapporteur's party, a higher deduction for research and development to companies and a double job allowance, an increase in employment allowance, and indeed initiatives, which I also hope the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will be involved in: an effort to gain access to additional labour, because, as I said, what is almost the most important thing for Danish companies now, so that we can just avoid the sudden lack of labour, whether we are going into overheating or there are the signs of crisis around which the rapporteur also outlined.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142618	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142619	Thank you to the rapporteur for his reply. The Left is always involved in discussing how we can secure qualified labour for our companies, both foreign, but also Danish labour. Moreover, there is also a lack of initiatives for this in the government's draft budget. After all, the rapporteur mentioned a number of things, among others. some deduction options for companies and less tax on investment. Which of the initiatives will the Radical Left demand in the negotiations with the government before the rapporteur's party supports a financial bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142651	Yeah, that's always the good question. But we will go in with high ambitions on everything and hope that others will listen. The more we are helped, the stronger we will be, and that is why I hope that the rapporteur's party will continue to support us, because we need these things and we need access to labour. And it is part of our agreement and understanding with the Social Democratic Party that there must be additional access to labour, so of course we expect to achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142728	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And the next rapporteur on the platform is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022142803	In June of this year the Danes gave the Danish Parliament a clear task, namely that it was time for political change. And that order followed the Social Democracy, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten when we produced an understanding paper to show the way for the next four years, namely better welfare and a climate that gives us a planet to live on. These are areas that, after many years of failure, require action; these are areas that are primarily about giving our children a future, about ensuring their upbringing in secure institutions and a future free from the severe pressures that climate change imposes on their world. The tracks have thus been added to improvements in welfare, a historical green transition and a fairer Denmark. With the paper of understanding, we probably made four parties the most ambitious climate objective in the world, and I think that it may still not have quite been clear to everyone how ambitious it is, and how much it takes from day one how much it takes from day one, how much it takes from the very first financial law. So this financial bill that we are discussing now must be the children's, both directly in terms of a priority for the whole children's area, but also by ensuring that the world that we pass on to them is habitable. We in the SF are in favour of the negotiations with four main proposals: minimum standards, climate action now, a social pool and an increase in primary and secondary education. The starting point for our draft Finance Bill is that, if you are interested, you can read from SF.dk is that money is set aside to at least maintain the current level of welfare, but where we of course also want a further boost. It is sometimes a bit stranded in a technical discussion about the demographic trait we have had for several years. But it doesn't matter. We have more elderly people, we have more children, and that is why, year after year, we are discussing whether the money also comes with us. The fact is, they haven't done that in recent years. The bourgeois government has consistently underfunded welfare, and this is the huge task that we and the government are now facing, not only to ensure that there is enough money for more children and more elderly people, but also to give the boost that needs to be given to the welfare society that we have promised to the citizens. Our financial bill is, of course, 100%. funded. In the SF, whether we are an opposition party or a support party, we are presenting a financial bill. We want to pay for the promise of prosperity and the green transition by financing 5.5 billion. kr. next year, in 2020, and in addition, we are proposing a wealth tax to be introduced from 2021. Many of the proposals that SF uses to finance the promise of welfare contribute in itself to reducing inequality and improving the climate. What does it mean in concrete terms that this finance law should be the children's finance law? This means that children in Denmark must be able to feel a boost in the day institutions, in primary and in their education, but also in a large number of other areas. For example: free psychological assistance for young people gives a much needed outstretched hand to young people who need help to improve their mental health. This is an area we have been fighting for for many years, both in our youth party, in the municipalities and in here, and fortunately this is something that is spreading. However, this also means that we must take ambitious steps to pass on a non-polluted nature and a climate in which the temperature does not rise. We are working hard for these measures in the financial law negotiations both this year and in the coming years. As I have said, we have four main priorities for the coming Finance Act: minimum standards, climate action now, a pool for socially vulnerable people, because we have abolished the rate pool, and a recovery plan for the entire education area, which has suffered from the re-prioritisation contribution • the savings made by the previous government. But let me just spend some time on the first two. When it is so important for SF with minimum ratings, it is because we have been able to see it for a long time it has also been illustrated in several TV documentaries that our children in many places are not feeling well. We hand them over to day care institutions for many hours every day to make the society that we have screwed together, where Mom and Dad in most families go to work, hang together. That social contract means that we will then have the world's best day care centres with well-educated educators, where there is time, not only to store the children, but to ensure their care. It is absolutely crucial for the well-being of children that there is time for them, and there are not many places. We see far too many educators turning their backs on their subjects because they cannot see themselves in the mirror in relation to the task they have to solve. Here from the platform we heard earlier about the head doctor at the Kingdom Hospital's maternity ward, who had also turned his back on his work, because he could no longer see himself in the mirror in relation to the working conditions that he was offered and which he himself had to offer to his employees. This simply shows that, despite the fact that we have had several good years after a financial crisis, our welfare society has been underfunded. At one point, we have had many more educators for our children than we have now. We have at one time had many more nurses and doctors with better time for patients than we have now. There has simply been a slip in our welfare society, and we have been able to see the figures also speaking their clear language ■ that the bill that was socialised and paid by citizens after the financial crisis has not been corrected since then. So it is a huge backlog and a huge task that now awaits the government and that we, as a support party, will help the government lift. This is not just about fulfilling the so-called demographic trait. This is about filling the holes that have been dug and the ditches that have been dug for many years, and it is a gigantic task. At any rate, it is a task that those who are least responsible for this should not take up, namely the children, and when we deliver them many hours every day, they must also have proper conditions, and that is why minimum standards are so crucial for us in this financial law. It is equally crucial that we have ambitious climate action now. I have to say that it is disappointing that the government is not bringing up new money. We have made an understanding paper that is fantasticly ambitious and that is better than I had the courage to hope for in this area. Sometimes some people say: Doesn't it matter what Denmark does in the big global picture; we are so small in relation to climate? No, it doesn't matter. When there is a little Swedish teenage girl who can suddenly become a global role model, it just clearly shows what leadership can mean: that there are some who show the way, and a small country can do just as well as a large country. Denmark is also not a pioneer country when it comes to CO2 2 inhabitants. So we also have a debt to the rest of the world, we have to pay now with green leadership. In the SF, we believe that new money is needed. It is very good that funds should be re-priorityd, for example. in the field of research, but new money is needed. It takes new money to take out some of the most vulnerable lands. My time is running out and that is why I am going to skip some of our funding proposals, and I hope to have some citizens' questions about it. To conclude, I would just like to say that, like the forthcoming Finance Act, there must be more educators for our young people; there must be more ambitious climate action. A few years ago, Denmark was the most equal country in the OECD. I know that there are some who think that is not so cool in themselves, but we think that in the SF we are no longer. Now we are being surpassed by Slovenia, by the Czech Republic, by Slovakia and other countries. This financial law must also be a fight with the inequality policy, which means that there are over 64,000 children growing up in poverty, while we have never had more millionaires than we have now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022143824	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of questioners, and the first is the rapporteur for the Left, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022143828	Thank you. I have a question which concerns a slightly different subject, but which has gone through in many of the consultations I had the pleasure of being part of in my time as Minister for Employment. Here Karsten Hønge of the SF repeatedly stated that if there was another government, the ceiling for cash aid should be abolished by the next financial law. During the period in which we had these consultations, I also had the opportunity to ask SF if it was something that was meant, but it is like omitted from the speech by the SF's financial rapporteur. Does this mean that the ceiling on cash benefits is now being accepted?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022143909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022143911	No, it's not in any way. When we negotiated the paper of understanding, we knew the Social Democrats' attitude to having this Commission set up, and we said that it was absolutely crucial that it was written in that the ceiling for cash aid was scrapped, that an economic aid was given to the families who, according to Denmark's Statistics, have become poor because of the former government's ceiling for cash aid. That is why we have said that if it were to be moved in relation to the Socialists' Services Commission, there would have to be an economic back-up and it would have to be said that the ceiling on cash aid would be scrapped.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022143959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144002	Thank you. For those of us who have not been part of the debate on the so-called understanding paper, it is very good to be able to learn a little more about it here in the Assembly. Does this mean that the SF has made the demand that the ceiling for cash benefits be abolished during this parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144023	Yeah, that means that the ceiling on cash benefits is being dismantled? The rapporteur can nod. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144031	Thank you. The next person who has asked for the floor is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144036	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. What you can hear, and I had no doubt about that, was that it should also be about the children, and so we are very much in agreement in the Danish People's Party, namely that we have to have proper day care institutions, and quality in day care institutions is of course also about adults, and it is also about education and what it really is about an offer our children get. But what I would like to ask is that when SF says that you want minimum standards, it is this BUPL model that you go for, and we have heard that in this Chamber several times, and it costs more than 3 billion. kr. a year. Then the question is, where is it really that you want to find that money? That question is of course interesting if we are to support the proposal. Where is the funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144115	It is true that it is the BUPL model with a dispute, one might say. The model that we have presented, which is about a maximum of three children per year. adult in crèches and a maximum of six children per year. adult in kindergartens, costs 1.6 billion when it is phased. kr. This is because we have a slightly different model than BUPL, but the three-and-six tier is the same as BUPL's. The 1.6 billion. It will cost us, when it is fully phased in, and that is to say, when we have, as far as possible, had the educators, as I said in my speech, turned their backs on their subjects, because they simply do not think they could vouch for it, back in the day institutions, but also trained many more, because it is not done with the other alone, it will cost 1.6 billion. kr., and that is what we have also promised in the understanding paper must be introduced allerals by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144219	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. It was actually very interesting. This means that it is only half a BUPL model, i.e. only half the number compared to what BUPL proposes. That's fair enough. The 1.6 billion. kr. is half the price compared to BUPL's model. What you can ask is whether these 1.6 billion. kr. e.g. are those in the room today, or where should the money be taken from in the future? After all, it is not just a 1-year pool, but probably a pool that must continue forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144255	Because there is a mismatch problem that means that we can't get all of these 2,000 available educators in as early as next year, we've said that we're starting to set aside 1⁄2 billion. kr. increasing to 1 billion. kr. Next year, and as we can get people back to the profession and get more trained, there must of course also be funding for the 1.6 billion. kr. That is absolutely right. In our proposal, the rapporteur can see it more effectively, but we have a fully funded financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144330	Thank you. The next person to ask the rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144335	Thank you. In the Radical Left and the SF, we agree that more money is needed for educators, for children, for schools and for educations. I also believe that we agree with the SF that the amount of money to be negotiated in the Social Democrat proposal is not enough. Could that extra money come from a bank tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144407	That money can come from a lot of places. In SF, we also think that such a bank tax is now there are some slightly different models • could be a very good source of funding. But we have other things to do with our financial laws, among others. capital taxation. The reason why we do not have a bank tax in our financial bill proposal is that in the spring we will have to negotiate a pension reform on earlier retirement, where we will use a bank tax to finance that area so-called tick.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144447	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144449	But now that is something we agree on. Will the SF give priority to keeping that money waiting rather than actually lifting the standards and getting more educators and teachers in school now and here?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144507	Restoring our entire education system and minimum standards is really, really important, and we have also financed crowns for crowns. I understand from Radicals that there is no wish to have capital taxation, that is to say, to tax interest income and share dividends with the same top tax limit as wage income. We do not want that part of funding in the Radical Left. But we do. And we also think that the pension part is really important, and it must also have some funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144543	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144548	Thank you. After all, with the Finance Act, we need to solve some problems, and I think there are many things we need to resolve quickly, including on the basis of the understanding paper of the government that has been agreed. But there are also things that are not in the government's understanding paper. I think we have a problem with the fact that too few youth housing has been built in some study cities in Denmark. It has gone well in Aalborg, where they have built their way out of the problems, but in the Greater Copenhagen area and in Aarhus you still have to build homes. Now I heard that the rapporteur stressed the need to improve education. I think it is important that we, as politicians, should go along with this, that it should therefore be a package solution, that we should have both a good study programme and a study place and something to live in. So I would like to know if, during these financial negotiations, SF will help to look at how we can strengthen youth housing, so that we can get more municipalities to give priority to building general youth housing, so that it is not private builders who are going to build some expensive building for young people to whom the su is not enough, but so that we build more general study homes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144650	Thank you. Now I notice Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen emphasizes that we must help the municipalities. Because this is a municipal task, and as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen so rightly says, there is now a surplus of homes in Aalborg, where I have read for myself. This may be a luxury problem, but it also means that prices are kept down. And why is that? This is because the municipality has given priority to building study and youth housing. Now I may be in disagreement with them from the other major cities of study, where it has not been given equal priority, because it is also a question of political will in some of the other cities. But where we can help from in here is, of course, in relation to setting a framework for how much part you have to make when building, then reserve for other types of construction. That's where we got, and I think it was with DF, introduced this rule that 25%. I'm not sure the exact percentage is supposed to be social housing. With this kind of demand, we can help the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144756	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144758	I must correct the rapporteur there. The 25%. general housing in new urban growth areas was thus Enhedslisten's fingerprints on an agreement under the Thorning Government. Now we've made an understanding paper together, raising it to 33 percent, and then we just need the government to put it into effect. So we're actually ready to build more. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether there could be any possibility of there being state cofinancing of basic capital. We therefore have a proposal that we can bring to the negotiating table of the Finance Minister, which reduces the tax benefits of parental purchases and thus finances the possibility of state cofinancing for the construction of more youth housing. Will the SF take a look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144835	Thank you to the questioner. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144836	The Enhedslisten must, of course, have the praise due to Enhedslisten in relation to what has been concluded by previous financial agreements. The proposal that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen refers to, we have actually joined the SF ourselves, so we can fully support that, also because we beat two birds with one stone. The model of parental buying today is deep, deeply antisocial and unsolidarous and helps to inflate property prices in the big cities, so we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144908	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022144914	Thank you. We are also concerned about the welfare of children in New Citizens. And now that we're looking at this thing with minimum standards, the SF says it costs about 1.6 billion. kr. Full phase-in. If I look at the municipalities' budget, it will cost less than 0.7%. (iii) the introduction of minimum standards throughout the municipalities' budget. So that means there's room in the municipalities' finances for this. The vast majority of municipalities operate with a decentralised efficiency requirement of 0.5 or 1%. They could just remove that, because then they would really be able to afford to introduce these minimum standards without further funding. So the money is out in the municipalities. But there is a reason why the municipalities in many places, including with the approval of the SF, have not introduced these minimum standards. There is another point one might be willing to look at from the SF, but I can see that I can ask about that in the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145019	That's right. The rapporteur for the reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145020	I think that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is reasonably nonchalant in relation to the municipalities' finances. The mere fact that the municipalities account for a large part of the welfare benefits directed at children and the elderly is therefore where we can see the demographic trait • means that it has been underfunded for several years; it has been cut to the bone and actually into the marrow. So there's not much to rustle with. And then we also have the second rule that when we impose some rules on the municipalities, they must be dutted, they must be paid. And that is why we are also saying from the SF that if we make a rule from in here, like the one we want for minimum standards, the money must of course also follow the task that we impose on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145109	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145111	Of course there has not been cut to the bone in the municipalities. In other words, the municipality of Aarhus alone spends over 100 million. kr. on external consultants every eternal year. For example, you're holding. The birthday of buildings, and we can have a long discussion about that. Another way to find the money is to look at the time when the educators are with the children. It has been steadily declining for a very, very many years, and it has been because more bureaucracy and more administration are being imposed on them. If we then removed it and raised the period when the educators were with the children quite a few percent • up to 5%.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145150	Oh, the last calculation I think seems a little bit homemade. But I fully agree with Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen in that too much paperwork is simply required, and I think we could find common ground there. Now New Citizens is a new party in the Folketing, but I think all parties in here have a desire to reduce bureaucracy. You can't see it really really, but it's absolutely right. It's just a matter of trust. It must be said to the day institutions that they will also be shown the confidence that makes it possible to debureaucraticize them.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145226	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to speak is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145230	Thank you. Denmark was once the most equal country in the OECD. We're not anymore. We have been overtaken by Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said in her speech. And more admitting that equality does not matter how well the weakest are, has not been heard from any left-wing politician in the past. Because it is not the case that if you belong to the low-income groups in Denmark, you would prefer to belong to the low-income groups in Slovenia, the Czech Republic or Slovakia, even though in those countries they have more equality than we, according to Mrs Bech Poulsen, have in Denmark. So why is it that SF keeps and keeps worrying not only about us getting bottomed up, but also spending a lot of effort to get the top down, so there is more equality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145333	In addition to the three countries mentioned, these include: Norway and Finland and a sixth country that I do not remember, and in a few years we have come down to a seventh place. And when we in the SF care about the progress that we think it is, it is because we think that the relatively high level of equality is a good thing in itself that it helps to ensure the so-called cohesion. Several studies have also been carried out showing that a relatively high level of equality is in fact also good for social capital, for confidence, the rate of crime and many other things. That is why we find it problematic that in a few years we have drifted down that ranking and been overtaken by some countries, as I think most of us in here might be a little surprised to be overtaken by. Equality is not a goal that stands alone. It needs to be connected to other things. However, we think that when we have had 64 000 poor children in a relatively short time and at the same time we see that there are countries running away, that is a problem in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145442	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145445	We in the Liberal Alliance are concerned that there is proper care for those who cannot fend for themselves, the weakest in society. They must be raised from the level they would be at if they were to fend for themselves, to a higher level with the help of the rest of us. But we do not care that those who are doing well should be torn down, that they should be strangled and more like a middle class dancer, even though they have done something extraordinary and created businesses, jobs, etc. I think it is a strange approach to things. There is no doubt whatsoever that it is better to be among the weakest in Denmark, where there is greater inequality than being among the weakest in Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, where there is less inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145530	But wanting to do something good for the allerallers' weakest is a hat-damelogic, which in my optics belongs to the 1800s. This is about you as a citizen of this country having some rights. It starts to slip away if there is all, too big a difference where you get an elite who alone has an economic standing because they are born with a front pocket because they happen to be born into a very wealthy family and have inherited a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145600	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145606	Thank you. I have seen that the Socialist People's Party has a number of costly proposals in the financial bill. In relation to that, I would like to ask a few questions about the funding. One thing is that you put a lot of taxes and taxes on business, but another thing is: how will you ensure that business actually still produces something that is worth taxing? Because it has to be that when you put taxes on something, you get less of it. So if you impose such heavy burdens on business as the SF envisages, how will you ensure that there is still something to tax in business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145642	Well, in fact, our financial law is fairly moderate. At least we are trying to correct some of the damage that has been done over the last four years. We trust that the business community would very much like to contribute in return for being in a society where there is a good infrastructure, a well-trained population, childcare and much more so that they do not have the bill for health insurance and other things. That is the social model we have chosen in Denmark, namely that it is tax-financed. I also believe that the business community appreciates the fact that we are finally coming up with a clear green direction so that they can also see what they are going to be involved in producing in the future. A great many of our large industrial companies live by the fact that there is an ambitious climate change direction, whether it is pumps, solar cells or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145741	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145744	I interpret the rapporteur's answer as not having any measures to ensure growth in Denmark, but only having measures to tax companies, and then they just have to correct it, because that is the way it is, and that is only fair. In other words, do we not even recognise that there is in fact a link between creating conditions that ensure that business can continue to function and getting some income from that business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145809	Oh, I'm sorry, but stop fucking around! We're spending 26 billion. kr. per year in business support. We say: let's spend some of that money a little more targeted. I think it is great that we have business support, including for 26 billion. kr., but I just think we can spend the money a little smarter and ask: What are we going to make a living on in the future? And then we would also really like to support our business community, which does a lot of great things, by having a really good infrastructure, a really good childcare and a really good health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145838	The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145847	Thank you, President. I noted that the rapporteur announced that 2020 will be the year of children, in other words, that these are the children's financial proposals. And that's good in many ways. I think we all want to do something good for the little ones. What may be a little disappointing is that the elderly, as I understand it from the rapporteur's speech and the priorities she presents, have been completely forgotten. Perhaps you are so concerned about doing something good for the children that the elderly are being pushed aside. And what I am thinking of, of course, is that we will not have to go back many months before a pact was concluded between the rapporteur's party and my party, the Socialist People's Party and the Danish People's Party, that there would have to be an extra billion more for the elderly. And the rapporteur's party chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, was very explicit in her choice of words at the time. So I just want to hear: can we count on the billion for the elderly in the forthcoming Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022145944	Thank you for the question, and I actually think it is not polemical. The elderly have been a focus of the Danish People's Party, and I would like to congratulate the Danish People's Party on this. It is also for the SF, because it is some of the people who have worked a lifetime, contributed in one way or another, and who now need both a shoulder flap, but also financial security, regardless of whether it is a national pension, whether it is additional supplements, whether it is elderly care, care etc. And the funding for the care of the elderly lies out in the municipalities, which is why it is so crucial that there is a proper municipal agreement. It sounds a bit boring, but if there is a cut there, if the municipalities do not have the financial scope to give priority, then they cut. We've seen that in many places. Then you cut wide, then you cut on childcare, on care for the elderly, etc. That is why it has been crucial for us to have a proper municipal agreement this year. And we have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150048	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150050	Yes, but it's very exciting with municipal agreements etc. Now we are a little interested in what the Socialist People's Party intends to secure on the Finance Act, are we not? That is what today's debate is about. And it is the case that, on the DR, the chairman of the rapporteur, on the eve of the parliamentary elections, said that SF • together with the Danish People's Party would demand one billion more for the elderly. And we're ready. In other words, although we may not be invited to all the meetings that the Socialist People's Party is currently doing, we would like to support this demand. Can we also count on the Socialist People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150124	Of course you can. I am sure that when the Minister for Finance comes up here, some time has passed, and then his talented officials can also help us figure out, in fact in crowns and ears, how much more a much better municipal agreement that was concluded this year compared to last year or last year translates into crowns and ears. And shouldn't, I'll tell Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, turns out that the elderly are given the extra hand in the municipal agreement in relation to what can be put into effect, but then we would like to shake hands with the fact that they should have extra hands in the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150204	The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov, Conservative People's Party
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150209	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to discuss a little further in what was asked before, i.e. whether SF has any proposals for initiatives that will benefit the business community. I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen quite easily escaped on that issue by saying that business is also very happy that more money is being spent on welfare. That is not what business is asking for. It is not the case that, when you read the wish list of professional organisations, it says: we really want to tax more and the municipalities need a larger budget. So can the rapporteur respond in such a slightly more serious way as to whether there is any SF proposal that is actually something the industry is looking for in order to strengthen competitiveness?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150250	What I hear the business community is asking a lot out of the ordinary for lower taxes and lower taxes is some framework conditions and some predictability. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Just taking the electric car area, the zigzag course that has been going on for several years has made the fact that there has not been enough investment in the infrastructure. When you have taken a green course, I would not even say a zigzag course, but just haven't really had a course, then it also gives some difficult conditions for business, in terms of what it pays them to invest in new machines and to develop new technologies, whether they can safely go on a certain path or whether it is wasted money. So that kind of framework conditions are also really, really important. We would very much like to help remove taxes that do not make sense anymore and, on the other hand, say that there are green taxes that will affect both citizens and businesses, but which are necessary for the green transition. So we would like to re-prioritize in the area of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150354	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150357	Thank you. Yes, SF may not succeed in becoming the most business-friendly party, but I would like to give SF a proposal that I actually think SF should be able to endorse, namely to help us get the tax system simplified. After all, we now have this extremely complicated tax system, where a labour market contribution is first drawn, and then you have to pay some other taxes afterwards, but there is also an employment allowance and a green cheque etc. You can make this a lot simpler by just giving people a simple tax rate. Then people will pay the same as they do today. It will be revenue-neutral, but more simple. Could the SF be in on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150433-2	No, we cannot, but on the other hand I would like to draw attention to the proposal which we had in the spring and which was, in fact, a little inspired by Mr Beazley. Rasmus Jarlov's time as business rapporteur is that we also need to take good care of our small and medium-sized enterprises. In the proposal before us, there are a number of points on which we will do something extra for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the ones who often have a bit more difficulty, for example. In the case of public procurement or maternity leave, or whatever it may be. So I think so, sir. Rasmus Jarlov was supposed to go in and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150509	Thank you. The next person who wishes to speak is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150514	I would like to follow up on the question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Because when you read the SF's financial bill play it's good enough for 2019; it's just that SF is aware that what we're debating now is the 2020 Finance Act, so it may be that you just have to correct a little in your financial bill play so that it doesn't concern this year, but even if we relate to the time we've now got • you can't see that there are older people anywhere in the world in connection with all the priorities SF has. There's no money for the elderly. I understand if the Danish People's Party is a little puzzled that the SF President says that 1 billion will be spent. kr. in the area of older people, when in the party's priorities in its financial act there is not one word about the elderly, not one amount for the elderly. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150612	I understand that sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is a little confused. Because you would think that the Left did not know that most of our core welfare is being funded in the municipalities and that the municipalities are being paid for by means of the financial agreements concluded by the Finance Minister with the municipalities. If, for several years, the Left Government has consistently underfunded the municipalities' finances, so that they have had to cut in the area of the elderly, in childcare, etc., then of course this gives rise to some confusion about what it means to suddenly have a government that actually makes a municipal agreement that guarantees more money for the elderly and children. So elderly care and care are funded in the municipalities, and that is why it is so crucial to have a municipal agreement where there is enough money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150705	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150706	It is nice to hear that the SF is sure that the municipality agreement that has been made means that the cost of the elderly area is increasing by at least 1 billion. kr. It will be interesting to see whether the Minister of Finance can confirm this when we ask about it, and it is of course worth noting the demographic trait, which was the political agreement between the chairman of the SF and the chairman of the Danish People's Party. It'll be interesting when we keep digging into it. In return, I'll jump to something else. We tried to get an answer from the Socialist rapporteur on savings on consultants, and there was no suggestion of that. SF is a little more offensive and says that 0.5 billion can be saved. kr. Next year. How will SF save 0.5 billion? kr., when the government is not able to save a penny?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150748	Thank you to the questioner. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150750	Was the question how SF will save 0.5 billion. kr., when the government doesn't have it in its Finance Bill? Well, we are now an independent party, just as the Left is, so if the Left had bothered to table a draft budget before this debate, then we had something to discuss with. After all, the SF has presented its proposal and there we write that the cost of consultants in the state has simply gone crazy in recent years. Some of it is explanatory, such as: the work that has been done to rebuild the tax administration, but some of it is also simply a slippery slope. We will save some money there. We propose this as financing... a little bit of it should go back to the ministries themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150833	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who wants to ask a question is Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150840	Thank you. The viewers write in their latest report that the government's proposal to double taxation on the generational change of companies can create liquidity problems for the companies concerned and that it is also a major problem that significant uncertainty is created about the valuation of these companies. The question then arises as to how the SF responds to the major challenges of the less liquid small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, which may not be able to sell or borrow money in the bank to pay for this tax increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022150911	Thank you for the question. I find it interesting that the rapporteur finds a quote from the economic wise men when it is the economic wise men who say that there is no economic reasoning that the housing and gift tax gives company heirs an advantage over so much else that it is directly socio-economicly harmful to do so. So it's a little interesting. However, I would like to reply to what the rapporteur is asking. Yes, I have also heard that the Minister of Industry has taken up the whole discussion about the valuation and said that it would like to be looked at in relation to the fact that it is valued differently today than in the past. In relation to whether to have sufficient liquidity, the Minister has also been out to say that it could be 30 years instead of 15 years. And we in the SF are also open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151002	I understand that the message from the SF to the many companies and their employees who get into trouble on the basis of this proposal, in other words, they have to sail their own lake if companies have to close down. Then I would like to say that I do not think you have read the latest report of the Wise Men, because there you do not recommend raising the inheritance tax. Harmonization is recommended. It also points out a wide range of challenges by actually raising the inheritance tax in the context of harmonisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151028	I have to remind the questioner that there is no direct indictment in the Assembly. Christoffer Aagaard Melson Sorry). The rapporteur is allowed to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151033	I think the questioner should read the report of the wise men again, because that is something else they say. However, it is true that they are pointing this out with the valuation, and they also point out that if some companies are facing liquidity problems, they can extend the years over which it is to be paid. Then I would just like to point out that since 2015, there is not a single company that has wanted to make use of this 15-year rule, not a single one. So nobody's closed or in trouble. We asked the then tax minister about this when the then government reduced the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151115	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151118	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech, because I think it is going very well for Lisbeth Bech Poulsen today. However, I think that there is a place where we should devote a little attention, namely that when you are so good at spending money, you also have to be good at making money. One of the places where Denmark has been good at getting money in the box has been in connection with the North Sea agreement on the extraction of gas and not least oil from the Danish underground. There I have also noted that SF does not think it is a good idea to open up new licences and thus to extract the large values that lie in the North Sea. In this way, we will miss quite, quite many billion kroner and also many Danish jobs when we do not need resources to extract gas and oil. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he has a strategy for where the money from North Sea activities we are missing in Denmark, so to speak, should come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151225	I am the daughter of a drill bishop myself, and there are a lot of people working in the North Sea where a lot of jobs have been created that have contributed a lot of growth to Denmark. Unfortunately, we can also just see that if we are really to secure a planet for our children and grandchildren, we need to move away from being a fossil economy to becoming an economy based on renewable energy sources and having a more sustainable way of consuming. That is why, together with the Radical Left, we have also said no to this eighth round of invitations to tender. It can then be said that, on top of being the right thing to do, it is also financially wise to do. Now we talked about the wise men before, but there are also many who say that at this point it will not even be economically profitable, that is to say that it will not make sense and that there are so many risks associated with fossil investments, even in the years to come. Just a quick comment...
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151327	No, it's gonna be in the next round. The rapporteur is allowed a second round. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151331	I am therefore pleased that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is the daughter of a pussy, but that does not change the fact that we also think that it is a little disgusted with Denmark and with the Danish taxpayers that it is evident that it is better and more environmentally correct to import oil and other fossil fuels from abroad. If we get into a situation where we cannot get enough out of the Danish underground, then that means that we will have to import it if we are not in a situation where we are 100 percent independent of fossil fuels. This means that we have to import it from the Middle East, it has to be brought up here or whatever it has to do, and that, of course, brings an environmental impact. And I wonder why the SF is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151412	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151414	But, dear sir... Hans Kristian Skibby: The eighth round of invitations to tender goes into some years when we have promised each other that Denmark should not be dependent on fossil energy anymore. And then it doesn't make sense for us to dig it out of the North Sea underground ourselves, that is to say, it doesn't make any sense, it is after 2050. And I'm afraid this shows that the Danish People's Party doesn't really believe in the 70-percent objective or our climate promises to each other, if you think we should continue after 2050.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151451	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to wish to speak is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151456	Thank you. I need to return to the rapporteur's answer to the question of simplifying our tax system. I need the rapporteur to elaborate more on why the SF will not help to look at a simplification of the tax system when it does not have any distributional consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151522	Now I have been a tax rapporteur for many years and I have never seen a calculation where this extremely simplistic way of taxing should solve the things we want to solve. This is true both in terms of distribution and in terms of keeping the business community well in motion, which I know the Conservative People's Party is very much concerned about. A great deal of what makes our tax system complicated is the possibility of deduction, it is subsidies, it is 26 billion. kr. In business support it is all possible that there are some different incentives, that there are some deductions, but also that there are some charges, for example. in relation to producing in a more green direction. I've never seen an equation where we should make it as simplistic as I a little heard it from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's side, but still living up to the things we want from our tax system. That is not to say that there is still plenty of room for improvement and for debureaucratisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151621	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151622	Thank you. Well, we would very much like to send some calculations on that to the rapporteur if it could help the SF to be open to look at it, if there are no consequences in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151637	I would very much like to see that, because I am very interested in it, so please send it; I find it exciting. We often hear from many quarters that our tax system should be simpler and simpler, and I agree with that, i.e. if we could solve all these things. It's just rarely that somebody just wants to give up their own deduction to make it simpler.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151700	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person who wanted to ask a question is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151706	Thank you. Now the rapporteur from the SF has talked very hard about our problems in the area of day-to-day provision, and I would like to make it clear: can the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party accept if the forthcoming Finance Act does not contain minimum standards with one adult per three children in the nursery and six children in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151731	Thank you for the question. As I understood it, the question was whether it is crucial for the SF that we get the model we have put forward, the three-six model, in this Finance Act. And yes, it's crucial to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151748	Thank you. After all, minimum standards are legislation and, as you know, legislation cannot be implemented by educators. Would it not be better, in fact, to allocate the same money and let them go directly to the municipalities for educators instead of hiring lawyers and DJs for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151807	I don't think I understood the last part of the question. In other words, the model must ensure that we promise each other, regardless of who is in government, that money is set aside for there to be sufficient educators to maximum. are three and six children per year, respectively. adult. So I don't understand why it should go to DJs. It has to go to educators. That's what the money has to go to.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151832	So I would like to thank the rapporteur. We are through the series of questions, and we are therefore moving on to the next rapporteur in line, and that is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022151855	The Financial Act for 2020 must boost the most ambitious green transition to date, it must, for the first time in decades, increase equality and it must strengthen prosperity. For once, during the parliamentary elections in the spring, spin doctors and politicians did not set the agenda. It was the demands of parents and grandparents for more adults in kindergartens who filled. It was climate-concerned citizens, and especially many young people, who made the green transition a key theme in the elections. There are rightly high expectations, and that is what the parties in the new political majority are committed to. We must translate the elections into tangible results and change, and this must already be felt by the first financial law. Over the coming decade, we must transform our entire society for the sake of climate, we must change our way of life so that we can face our children and grandchildren and, at the same time, our welfare society must be restored. And then the gaps in the social safety net need to be patched up. People with disease all too often also end up in poverty. Together, this means a great need to redistribute the benefits of our society, for over the past many years the richest have only become richer, while the footprint of the climate and the insecurity of ordinary people has increased. It rocks the foundations of our welfare model. The problems have not come on their own. The political decisions of the Right have brought us to where we are now. For example: From 2015 to 2019, the previous government has agreed on tax reductions that will cost nearly 22 billion each year. kr., and at the same time the previous majority has left an unpaid bill in 2020 of 3.5 billion. kr. that the rest of us have to pick up. It is a bill left by parties who, moreover, often like to refer to themselves as financially responsible. But there is no responsibility in giving tax relief in the bar, where the biggest drinks are for those who already have the most, and then just get off the bill afterwards. The Enhedslisten's draft Finance Act is more than fully funded. The money goes to resurrect Denmark as a sustainable welfare society, and we will find funding at the top of society by asking banks, multinational companies, major shareholders and corporate heirs to contribute a little more. At the same time, we will help to ensure that we create good jobs on proper conditions and that we have the necessary labour, regardless of the economic situation. It is clear that when we want to employ more people in the welfare sector in the coming years, we must also help to ensure that there are actually people to hire. So we go to negotiations with the aim that the result should reflect the message that the people gave us in the elections, and therefore a financial agreement must be felt on our welfare and it must be measured in our climate accounting. And it should not be ordinary people and those who have the least to pay the bill this time that the Danish society is extremely rich by every measure, and our economy is among the strongest in the world, the foreign debt is low, and there is also the prospect of a large surplus on the state's accounts for 2019. But today's prosperity is more unequally distributed than it has been for many years. In recent years, changing political majorities have carried out a wide range of inequality-building reforms to increase the theoretical supply of labour, reforms that each time are about lowering taxes at the top and tightening the screw against the unemployed and the sick. This financial law must help to correct that. There is plenty of money to start restoring welfare so that once again you can be safe when you need the support of society through life, and there is money to raise the level of ambition in the green transition so that our society comes into harmony with the planet and nature. This financial law must take the first steps towards the great green transition. And after the adoption of the Finance Act, where we cannot achieve everything, these measures must be followed by a number of major agreements, for example. energy, biodiversity, transport and agriculture, but we need to get started now. However, it is unacceptable that the government's draft budget does not have room for both green conversion and welfare. The Prime Minister spoke at the opening of the Danish Parliament about the welfare first and about a greener Denmark, but one has to say quite soberly that there is not enough money at all for both. And the first financial law must therefore be felt in terms of welfare and measured in terms of climate accounting. There must be money for minimum standards, more beds in psychiatry and the green transition. But that will not be the reality of the proposal put forward by the government, and that is, of course, unacceptable to the Enhedslisten. The election speech was clear: the thousands of people who have voted for a new direction and worked hard for it, the young climate activists and parents and public servants who have shouted for minimum standards and more hands in hospitals, have some perfectly legitimate expectations, and the expectations have only to be seen that the government's financial act does not live up to. The government's draft budget does not in itself provide a boost to our welfare. There are, for example: Not enough money has been set aside to guarantee against further deterioration and redundancies, and the bag of money devoted to negotiating cannot be enough for both welfare and the green. It is, of course, fundamental that it is changed. And I just have to say frankly that there is a lot of work to be done at the negotiating table before we are near the goal, but fortunately we have a lot of ideas from the Enhedslisten about how we can turn our ambitions up, and we are going constructively to the negotiations here, including with funding proposals. In relation to the financial law negotiations, we have three main requirements with which we, together with minimum standards, go to the negotiations. Firstly, it is the case that, over the next decade, we will have to convert our entire society in the interests of the climate, and this must be done in such a way that we do not send the bill for the green conversion to those who have the least. If we do it smartly, we can create a green transition that can both lift and improve the everyday life of many. That is why we are proposing that we start by investing a billion dollars in public transport for a 30% reduction in fares throughout. It cannot do this alone, but it will be an extremely good place to start when we want more people to use public transport. Secondly, our welfare society must be restored. The economic agreement for municipalities and regions has not solved the problems, despite the fact that the agreements are better than what we have been used to in recent years under blue governments. We are going to change that with the Finance Act, and we are therefore proposing, among other things. an emergency billion for psychiatry, which can go to several beds in general psychiatry, to court psychiatry and to several places on the fuse. However, bedrooms do not do so alone, because for too many years health professionals have become fewer in number to care for the individual patient. Imagine that your stomach suffers indescribably, and you seek out your doctor, who assumes that it is an appendicitis, and refers you to hospitalization. Here you must first fight to convince a doctor that you need hospitalization and surgery. The doctor is with many other patients who need as much help. You get into the emergency reception, you get diagnosed with appendicitis, but before you get run up to surgery, you are told that another patient is sadly more ill than you, so you get out, but you get a pack of aspirin. On the other hand, you can always come back another time and see if there is room. Does that sound weird? Yeah. But that is the reality of people with mental illness, it is the reality that we offer to our dedicated staff working in psychiatry. Dignity is saved out there in real life. Thirdly, last but not least, the gaps in the social safety net must be patched up. People with disease all too often also end up in poverty, and we have not finished talking about them simply because a benefit commission has been set up. We will introduce a right for cash benefits recipients to clarify within one year, and then you will either have to be able to take care of your job and thus be informed, or you may need to be searched for flex jobs, rehabilitation or have granted an early retirement pension. Our financial law proposal also contains proposals for primary school, significantly more forest and nature and less agricultural land, changed rules for permanent residence permits, the abolition of the 2-percent savings requirement on education and culture, initiatives to combat social dumping and a number of other important things. I look forward to today's debate, and I look forward to it, and I look forward at least as much to the negotiations that should lead us to a good agreement in the end, and I can at least say from the Enhedslisten side that we are going constructively to the negotiations, which are, after all, the continuation of the negotiations we had before the summer recess, on the understanding paper, which, of course, gives a new direction for Denmark, and now the task is to put it into practice, and there is the budget law is the first important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022152829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of people who want to ask questions. The first is sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022152836	Thank you. I have a question about the Enhedslisten's demands in relation to the Finance Bill once it has been adopted, because the Enhedslisten has, in any case, in the past, given decisive importance to the whole issue of inequality. The very well-known media solidarity.dk, which I believe is managed by a member of the Enhedslisten, has also written about the answer that the Minister of Finance gave me about inequality. That is why it is basically just a matter that is relatively trivial, namely whether it is an ultimate demand on the part of Enhedslisten that the adopted Finance Act should not increase inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022152911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022152913	That is right: we go to the financial law negotiations with a requirement that inequality should be reduced. I don't think sir. Troels Lund Poulsen can read it from his place, but this is the front page of Enhedslisten's Finance Act, where it says: "A Finance Act that reduces inequality." I would say that we cannot, of course, support a policy that increases inequality. It was very central in the discussions we had about the understanding paper; we had some discussions, which I think there were also others who might have followed, at least through the press. Here it was absolutely crucial for us that there should be a fight with, for example, a fight with. the classic labour market supply reforms that have been made under several governments, which have meant that inequality has increased dramatically and the gap of top and bottom has increased dramatically in recent years as a result of political decisions. It is clear that a Finance Act with the votes of Enhedslisten must, of course, reduce the inequality it should not increase inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153010	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153012	But what is the comment on the answer given to me by the Minister of Finance, where he says that the government will not feel bound by making such an indicator in relation to the issue of inequality? It must then make it difficult for Enhedslisten, if you want to pursue the line that Rune Lund expresses here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153033	In other words, the whole idea of getting an understanding paper and making negotiations and making conditions as a prerequisite for being a support party to the Socialist-led government is, among other things, that there should be a policy that reduces inequality. That is, of course, a key issue. I understand, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen is oriented in the left-wing network media, and I think that is positive, but there is a discussion about how to calculate and measure inequality. Now I can't make much time here, but I just want to say that we're not gonna be sitting here doing a gini calculation at 9:00. 23.59 every night and let the result of that calculator be decisive for whether we overturn the government the next day or not. We are not out in a mathematical exercise, it will always be a political assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153121	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next person to ask questions is sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153123	Thank you. I would actually just like to continue where the former rapporteur left off, namely by inequality. If you only measure inequality, is it a success if there are some Danes who become poorer, because then you reduce inequality? Well, that depends on what you do. You can lift some at the bottom, but you can also press some at the top. What exactly is Enhedslisten's policy? Is it equality for equality, or is it equality because there are some people you want to promise? Or is it because you want to print someone else? For it is hard to find out what ideology lies behind the idea of equality. Then the rapporteur cannot say whether the rapporteur wants a financial law whereby more Danes become poorer, thereby reducing inequality, so that we become more equal?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153209	I think so, sir. René Christensen can figure out that Enhedslisten is not going to pursue a policy in which more people become poorer. But what is important to say is that there is something about inequality. It is about the differences that exist in society. And then there is the debate on poverty, which is in fact something other than inequality, although increased poverty can of course also lead to increased inequality. It is just to be noted that in recent years it also happened from 2011 to 2015 under the Social Democratic led government and continued under the bourgeois government from 2015 to 2019 has been conducted a policy that has led both to more poor and to an increase in inequality. And that's what's gonna happen now. So it's all about lifting the bottom and creating better conditions for those who have the least and earn the least. And then, of course, it's all about those who have had tax rebates in a lot of places, and that's the top point to contribute a more fair share to the community, that is to say to give a little more. That is why, of course, things are connected in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153313	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153315	Well, now I get it. This means that those on transfer income must have more and those in employment must have less. Then you can do it relatively quickly. But that also means that we can imagine having a budget law where, for example, there is a budget law. This is something that can be governed by a financial law, or you can at least try to make it happen that in the public sector such things as wages must not increase. After all, there is an increase in inequality in relation to those on transfer income if the public employees and those there are very many increases in wages. What is just a source of wonder, when you talk so much about inequality, is why you don't spend more effort telling what you want. For what you want is to have a smaller difference between being on transfer income and being in employment. And that is something that can be done about the fact that those in employment are being paid less.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153356	Well, that's not Enhedslisten's policy. I don't know who would be in favour of it. I just want to say that it is important to combat inequality in principle, because we think it is politically wrong that inequality increases and that it has increased as drastically as it is. In addition, it must also be noted that there are more international studies showing that countries which have a high degree of equality are actually also more productive, simply because they are able to make better use of society's resources than countries where there is great inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153430	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the questioners, and that will be Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153435	Thank you. After all, we agree, I know that we need to raise the level of ambition. I really like Enhedslisten's way of saying it. I think we are saying something similar, namely that it should be felt and it should be measured in CO2 It also requires that we find additional funding, as the rapporteur also said, than the one put forward by the Socialists. One of the places where I can see we agree there are many places where we disagree is that we should ask the banks to contribute more to society, for example. by allowing them to help finance some of the green transition or more educators in our day care institutions. Will the Enhedslist be a part of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153528	Yeah, we'd really like to be a part of that. We ourselves have proposed in our own draft budget that a balance-sheet tax be introduced for the financial sector and the banks. This will generate an annual revenue of 1.8 billion. kr. Based on what the government has put forward and on the fact that we have also said in our draft Finance Act that we would like to spend 1 billion. kr. On the basis of minimum standards by 2020, it can be said that if you added such a bank tax, you would have 2.8 billion. kr. to minimum standards. It is clear that they cannot all be phased in by 2020. But I simply do not see any good arguments for waiting to spend that money when it seems that a political agreement has now been established between four parties, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Social Democratic Party, that the banks should contribute more. I simply do not see why that money should be saved. I think that the banks should contribute something more to the community and that money can be spent very sensibly on, for example. minimum standards or to strengthen psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153626	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153628	Thank you. Another thing which the Socialists have also forgotten is the abolition of the educational ceiling and the very massive savings that will be introduced on 1 January in humanist and social science education. Can the Enhedslisten see a Finance Act where the education ceiling has not been abolished or where we have not had the massive savings in human and social science education abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153657	We think it is quite natural that the two things, namely the abolition of the training ceiling and the fact that there should be no savings on HUM/SAMF, are, of course, something that needs to be dealt with by this financial law. What is important here is that when you look at what the various parties think about funding, this is not a question of not being able to find the money. One has only to note, when you read the draft budget of the SF, the draft budget of the Radical Left, the draft budget of the Enhedslisten, that there is so much common funding that it is only a question of political will to be able to find the funding to remove the two things mentioned by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153738	The next person who has wanted to ask questions is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153743	Thanks for the speech. After all, there was a bit of a flick to the former bourgeois government, as Mr. Rune Lund accused of giving some irresponsible tax relief. I just want to say that I actually agree that the tax cuts we gave were irresponsible. Of course, they should have been much bigger than they were. Because it is not responsible to take as much of people's money as we do in Denmark, where we charge over DKK 1,100 billion a year and work so hard for there to be so much money in public and so little money for citizens. The prosperity of society is not that public budgets are as large as possible; it is that the citizens are rich. And some of that wealth, of course, they can get through a well-functioning public sector, but it cannot be the goal that it should be as large as possible. There's a huge room for manoeuvre at the So there is money for a very, very big boost, in fact, of public spending. Why is it necessary to raise taxes in this situation? As far as I know, even Enhedslisten does not have proposals to spend as much extra money in the public sector as there is room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153849	To the end, I would like to say that it is because Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has not read Enhedslisten's 100-day schedule, which is called 100 days with Enhedslisten.We describe what we would do if we were able to decide and have 90 seats in the Danish Parliament. On the other hand, I would like to say that in this plan we have not actually used room for manoeuvre, but have financed our proposal crown for crown. This is, of course, because some of the room for manoeuvre there has been provided through some reforms where there have also been some dynamic effects. And there is a very, very uncertain basis for saying whether the money that comes out of the dynamic effects exists in reality. And then, in fact, we think it is economically irresponsible to include them in the scope. So we would rather finance things crown to crown, rather than using a room for manoeuvre created by some reforms, where there are some dynamic effects that we think there is a very weak evidence of. But we think it is reasonable to spend more on welfare and the green transition. And it has to be said that even with the room for manoeuvre now that there has been a recalculation, it is not enough to create the necessary increase in welfare and it is not enough to secure enough funding for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153957	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022153959	I must apologize if I have underestimated Enhedslisten's ability to spend money in 100 days. It may well be that you can spend more than 28 billion. kr. I don't know about that so fast, but I think you have to be tough on it anyway. But does Enhedslistens have any suggestions about things that could be done to create growth in society and make sure that there was a larger tax base, as it says, that some more money was made around the Danish companies? And if I have to narrow the answers a little, because I learned that by listening to the SF before, it's not an option to answer that you want to make kindergartens and nursing homes better. But, you know, Enhedslisten has some things that are actually being sought after by business?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154037	So I have to say that having a welfare society such as the Danish one, where you invest in infrastructure, free education and health and proper day care institutions, so people have the opportunity to take a job, is crucial to creating a good business environment. And Denmark consistently ranks at the top of international studies when it comes to the ability to do business, to have a good environment, to be an innovative society. There we are at the top, constantly at the top, precisely because we have a strong welfare society. As far as business initiatives are concerned, we have presented two initiatives in the election campaign to strengthen the business community, which is about improving the conditions of small businesses and self-employed people, and then it is about creating better opportunities for democratically owned companies, that is, the cooperative sector, which is a relatively large part of the Danish economy and which is not enough focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154123	Thank you. The next person who has wanted to ask questions is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154128	Thank you. 100 days with Enhedslisten sounds almost like a cure, such a diet I think I'll baptize the Venezuelan cure or something. But there is no doubt that New Citizens will anything other than Enhedslisten with society. Enhedslisten is a socialist party, we are a bourgeois party. But I'd like to see if there are any places where we might find each other anyway. Because when you look at how the money is spent in society, both in the government, in the regions and also in the municipalities, you can see that more and more money is being spent on consultants, project makers, on central management and administration, and in these areas, which in my optics are what I would call cold hours that do not generate basic core welfare. Therefore, I would like to ask a few questions about: what is Enhedslisten's requirement for this Finance Act? Is it that the money that is now coming out to the municipalities is also going to be completely out there out there centrally, where a core welfare is being created for them, so that they do not just land in the can in the central administration of the municipalities and regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154233	We think we should look at how to remove bureaucracy, minute tyranny and control in the public sector in order to free up more funds for citizens' welfare. This is something we have been fighting for and saying for many years; it is very much linked to our whole criticism of new public management as a public sector management instrument, imported from the private sector, i.e. as a bureaucratic control tyranny, which has taken far too many resources away from the citizens' welfare. I want to say, and I have to be honest about this, that we are not the only party that wants to look at how to save administration or do things more efficiently so that you can free money for welfare. I have to be honest with you about that, but of course it is something that is extremely important, because if we can save money there, then we can spend the money on something sensible instead. And, of course, there must be an administration that works. We should not, of course, save the public to pieces, just as we have seen it happen with the tax administration, where too much was removed, cut too much. It has cost us dearly. This must be done wisely, but we must constantly look at the possibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154341	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for another question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154343	I am not talking about removing it completely either, but I think we agree that there can be some means and there can be cuts in some places, including in those areas. I would like the rapporteur to be a little more specific. So we have heard many times before about the removal of bureaucracy and all this; I think it was back in 1983 or something that Schlüter started on this agenda. Could it not perhaps be possible to create a system for the Finance Act, where these funds were targeted directly to, for example: institutions, directly to schools outside the municipalities and their ability to manage this money, because we know that part of this money is drowning in all the joints that come to out there. You could ask the government to do that when you sit and make a bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154421	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154423	I have to say that it would really be an administratively cumbersome way of doing so if we were to sit here from Christiansborg and keep an eye on how the municipalities spend their money for administration and how they spend it for other things. So, it has to be said that passing the money on to the municipalities, where there is already a lot of focus today on removing bureaucracy to spend the money on welfare, is a very, very effective way of using welfare funds. And you just have to say that there isn't a single municipality in this country that doesn't look at how to save money on administration to free up more funds for citizen-close welfare for the simple reason that it's the most popular place to save at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154502	The next person who's ready to ask questions is sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154508	Thank you. I am very pleased that Mr. Rune Lund from the platform on behalf of Enhedslisten celebrates Danish society and the wealth created in Denmark. After all, Denmark has a capitalist system of free market economy and private ownership, and that is very far from the system that Enhedslisten wants, but it is the system that creates all the wealth that Enhedslisten will use in the annual budget negotiations. After all, this is a revival of a performance that is performed every year, and it is that Enhedslisten goes on the platform and says that we need to spend many more of the funds created out of the capitalist cornucopia horn, so the economy we have in Denmark, which is not as Enhedslisten would like it. Does the Enhedslisten ever think about the paradox that we need so much money for our policy, while at the same time wishing to pursue a whole different economic policy, as we know from, for example, the United Kingdom? Cuba and Venezuela, and which do not generate the money to help the poor and gain more equality, etc., which the Enhedslisten here today speaks about in the financial negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154622	That Denmark is really just such a capitalist dream society, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen describes it, I don't think it's a correct description. The society we are fighting for is, firstly, a democratic society in which there are very great freedoms for the individual, the individual citizen, and I just have to say that the Enhedslisten is the only party that has voted against all the restrictions on personal freedom and freedoms that have been implemented here in recent years. Not even a party that calls itself liberal in its party name can meet the standards of individual freedoms from which Enhedslisten works in the Folketing. So democracy is the crucial starting point. Secondly, we want to create a society where there is a strong community and how critical infrastructure, for example. is owned by the community or the state. That is why we are also pleased that this is so, for example. not succeeded in selling Radius to some international capital funds that can hide in tax havens, but that it has been sold to a consumer-owned company. I think that if Mr. Ole Birk Olesen looked at our proposal to promote a democratically owned sector in the corporate sector, and Mr. Ole Birk Olesen could see that the society we want is also a very productive society and a democratic society.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154741	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154743	Of course, you can talk about everything you want from the parliamentary platform, and the questioner only has the opportunity to ask questions twice, so you have great success with that. But if you could get to the core of Mr. Rune Lund, in which he so really answered the question, is there really no doubt about that in Mr. Rune Lund, that the forced collectiveisation of the means of production that Enhedslisten ultimately wants to implement will lead to a poorer society, just as we have seen in other countries where the same has been done everywhere in the world at all times so that the Enhedslisten, in a future Finance Act, where the Enhedslisten's dream society had been implemented, would not have at all the funds that are available here today and say that we need to spend all sorts of good things?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154826	This is quite absurd, because what I am really not really aware of when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is asking that question, is he? Ole Birk Olesen believes that what he is presenting is the policy of Enhedslisten, or whether Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, despite knowing that it is not Enhedslisten's policy, is still constantly presenting it as if what should be Enhedslisten's policy. I'd like to recommend to you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen actually reads what it is that Enhedslisten's policy is about. I recommend reading the playout • A more democratic business community, as we have done and where, among other things, we... shows how to promote companies, jobs and productivity in the democratically owned sector, which consists of the cooperative companies, the customer-owned companies and the consumer-owned companies, which we have a lot of in Denmark, and which lack political focus here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154912	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154916	I would like to thank the rapporteur for an extensive speech and a number of comprehensive answers. I would like to delve a little deeper into the rapporteur's position on the subject of climate versus inequality. Will the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party be able to support initiatives in a financial law which takes the right path in terms of saving the climate, but which in turn increases inequality? Will the rapporteur be able to support such initiatives as a principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022154948	I really appreciate the question. After all, it is absolutely essential to have the green transition that we have a green transition that does not increase inequality and does not send the bill to those who have the least. That is also why, in the proposal for a climate plan that we presented in February of this year, we can see that we are solving the challenge by ensuring, by means of concrete measures, that we reach a 70-percent reduction in climate gases by 2030. The plan is fully funded and it is financed in such a way that it does not turn the heavy end down, that it does not create any more inequality, and it is important, both because it is important in itself not to create more inequality, but also because, in fact, if it is the case that the green transition leads to more inequality, which is in principle wrong, will make up for the necessary green transition, because we will have so much resistance to it if that inequality comes. We've seen it in France with the Yellow Vests, and we're not supposed to have it at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155051	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155052	Thank you for your reply. Rune Lund, who says that it is fundamentally wrong if inequality increases as a consequence of the fight against climate change and that inequality must not increase. You want me to understand that it's more important for Mr. Knox? Rune Lund and for Enhedslisten that inequality doesn't rise than the water doesn't rise?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155131	No, it should be understood in this way that we will not achieve the fight against climate change if it is the case that inequality increases. If the inequality rises, the water rises too. That's how you put it. We need to solve both at once, otherwise there is simply no popular support for the necessary green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155146	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155149	Thank you. One of the most special experiences I have had here in Parliament was one night three or four years ago, when Enhedslisten had tabled a whole series of motions for resolutions. It was Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, whom I remember about how to secure our various natural habitat types: how to secure our meadows, our excesses, etc.? And we kept going until it was about 3:45 a.m. It showed a tremendous enthusiasm and enthusiasm for this question by Enhedslisten. If I then hear what the rapporteur points out about the priorities of the financial law that is about to be negotiated, then I think nature is completely absent. I wonder why it doesn't fill itself. Because when you look at the draft budget that has come, you can see that nature is completely absent. The same person, who was then the rapporteur for Enhedslisten, now has a slightly different role, and a press release came from the Danish Nature Conservation Association, where it was written that nature was completely absent from the financial act that had come. Nature was completely absent. So since it is something that is so dear to Enhedslisten, why is it not one of the key demands that one has?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155259	That is also one of the things we go to the financial law negotiations with. Mrs Mette Abildgaard may not have read all the articles or followed them everywhere in the media, but we have actually made a demand that we set up national parks. We will create 15. We are going to restructure 100,000 hectares of agricultural land and we are actually going to introduce natural zones at sea in the form of untouched sea. This is also something that we are bringing to the negotiations on the Financial Act for 2020. So it is something that has been very close to our hearts for a very long time, and it is something that is still very close to our hearts and something that we are fighting very hard for, because we think it is very, very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155345	However, I have to say that it is not so close to the heart of the Enhedslisten that it is among the priorities that are included in the financial law negotiations. For the rapporteur stood before and listed what were the priorities, among others. Psychiatry and minimum standards, and there was no significant place for nature. I know you can bring a lot of things to the table. I have been in politics not for many years, but, after all, long enough to know that you can always say as a politician that you want to take something to the table. But what really bats is when you give priority to something; when you say that this is what matters to you. Therefore, can we imagine a financial law where there is no significant increase in funding for nature, which Enhedslisten supports?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155426	No, actually, I can't imagine. I believe that we are also going to achieve that part of the Enhedslisten's demands and the policy of Enhedslisten for the sole reason that there are several other parties who also want something in this context that reminds us of it. I would say that there are, in fact, some obvious sources of funding for this. If you look at the surplus on the state accounts for 2019, you can see that it is approaching just about 50 billion. kr., and that money can be used to invest in the green conversion. It would be strange to pay off debt in a situation where there are actually negative interest rates where we make money from borrowing from the state. There are some investments in the green transition that need to be made quickly. So there is money available and there are sensible ways to spend that money, among other things. in these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155516	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155518	Thank you to the rapporteur. Both in the rapporteur's speech and in the Enhedslisten's presentation to the Finance Act, there is a phrase which is almost worthy of Egon Olsen in the Olsen Gang, that one should return Denmark as a sustainable welfare society, and that one will find the money at the top of society by asking banks, multinational companies, major shareholders and corporate heirs to contribute more. I'd like to put some faces on who these big shareholders are. If you are a carpenter's master at Nordfyn, have 10 employees and own all the shares in your own company, are you such a major shareholder? If you're a plumber out in Dragør, who has 15 employees and owns all the shares himself with his children, are you a major shareholder?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155606	No, you're not a major shareholder. But it may well be that we have to pay a more reasonable tax, for example. generational change of enterprises, if that is what the questioner refers to. I would like to point out that the funding proposals that we have included in our draft financial regulation include: include harmonising the taxation of capital and labour income with wage income, so that a lower tax rate is not paid by making money on interest rates or by making money from buying and selling shares or getting dividends from some shares you own. The second is, of course, that we have some proposals on how to close what we see as tax holes, which means that large multinational companies can get away with paying 0 or nearly 0 kroner year after year. Baby. That's something we're gonna do. Harmonisation of equity and capital income will give 5 billion. kr. extra a year, and it will have a clear social profile, for it will be the very richest, in fact the richest percentage, which will primarily contribute a little more with their wealth to the community. Closening tax holes will give about 2.5 billion. kr. extra a year. These are some of the funding proposals that we have, and that is what forms the basis for the wording that Mr. Tommy Ahlers is reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155720	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155721	The rapporteur had been wise, for he had guessed where I wanted to go about this about large shareholders. So what is being proposed about the generational change tax also affects this type of company as carpenter masters and plumbers, who play a huge role and take responsibility for society. After all, it is they who employ many more apprentices as compared with large construction companies. It is they who take them, the municipality calls and asks if they cannot find another job because they are falling out of the labour market. They're the ones who take that responsibility. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does it not concern the rapporteur at all when such companies say that if you triple the generational tax, it will harm them and make them either have to sell, merge or simply close?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155804	It has to be said that the rebate granted by the previous government on the residence and gift tax for the heirs of family-owned companies is not, after all, a tax on family-owned companies. It is about a residence and gift fee for the heirs to family-owned companies. I just have to say that this rebate is a very unproductive and wrong way of using society's resources, and you can of course, among other things, use it. ask the economic wise men what they say about it. After all, they are of the opinion that it is really a loss of productivity that one chooses to give a discount to a particular type of company rather than some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155845	Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022155849	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to stay in the same ball street in relation to the Danish jobs, because that is the case, at least according to what the government has put forward, that it is not desirable to make it easier for Danish family-owned companies to achieve a successful generational change. It is planned to roll back the agreement in which the Danish People's Party was involved to help these many thousands of Danish companies, which in the next 10 years are facing a generational change. That's where I'd like to ask sir. Rune Lund about something in relation to traditional Danish family-owned companies, which I think is one of the most precious things we have of corporate culture in Denmark.It is actually quite unique that there are so many family-owned companies. For the consequence of doing what the government wants is that instead of choosing an ordinary generational change, where you do it according to the rules we have today, you choose to sell the company and get an added value... maybe enough for your own family... so the ownership ends with capital funds or with other corporate funds. Third Vice-President Yes, please! ) And funds don't like Enhedslisten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160001	We like foundations, but we think that there are very lenient tax rules for funds. So if there is more fund ownership, it is the case that we need to look at the very lenient tax conditions that apply to funds. This is a slightly different discussion, but we would like to discuss this with the Danish People's Party if the Danish People's Party is interested in looking at the very lenient tax conditions for foundations. If we look at it with the discount on the housing and gift tax, which DF has unfortunately helped to introduce, and which we will now roll back, one of the economic wise men, Carl-Johan Dalgaard, says: "We encourage more companies to remain governed within a family rather than to be sold or to have another management. This reduces the productivity of society as a whole. Well, it must really be something that gets mr. His Kristian Skibby to think a little about whether it really was a wise idea to give such a tax rebate, which is also a tax rebate, which is given to billionaire heirs to some of the large family-owned companies. Couldn't this money really have been used in a more sensible way if the Danish People's Party were to ask itself this quite frankly?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160112	With all due respect, we do not have so many billionaire companies in Denmark; we are talking about 23,000 companies that will have ownership and generational changes within the next 10 years. When the debate rolls in here, Enhedslisten mentions almost per year. automatics always the billionaires and landowners etc., but it is quite common Danish family-owned companies that we are talking about. It is carpenter masters, glaziers, plumbers and all sorts of other things, and it is there that there is a schism, namely that the companies with the change of rules that is being proposed end up being more owned by capital funds or by corporate funds rather than being family owned. And funds don't like Enhedslisten. But now you go in and support legislation that gives them winds on the bike path.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160155	Foundations provide the opportunity to create a foundation, such as the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. In this context, it should be noted that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the What we consider to be the problem with the fund construction is the very lenient tax conditions, in other words, where, as a fund, you can almost decide for yourself how much you want to pay in tax. It is technical and it is a longer discussion. That's what the economic wise men say. In addition, we must also bear in mind what, among other things, is happening. Mr. Karsten Lauritzen said, when he was Minister for Taxation, that this is not a question of whether it makes economic sense; it is a moral question. And there I just have to say that my moral compass is simply screwed up differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160244	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt's turn to charge his mild voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160248	Thank you, President. I heard the rapporteur talking earlier about democratically owned companies, and it is clear that you will then become a little bit concerned, at least when you belong to a family that earns its own money by having a family-owned business. That's the way it is at our place. My boyfriend, Dot, and her family have been doing business on Dyrehavsbakken for more than 100 years, and I just want to know who it is, sir. Rune Lund is planning to take over the ownership of the business, which for more than 100 years has belonged to the Stefansen family. I assume that this is what is, as it were, being proposed when Enhedslisten talks about transition to democratically owned companies. Or how are we supposed to understand this concept? I would very much like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160340	I would very much like to explain that, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's speech, which I appreciate, because I think it is about 13 years since we last discussed together here in the Parliamentary Chamber, shows in reality how little attention is paid to the cooperative sector in Danish society. If I mention Coop, Arla, OK or all the utilities that supply electricity, gas and water to the Danish population, then these are just a few examples of companies in our society that are either employee-owned, consumer-owned or customer-owned. That sector is very, very large and it gets too little political attention, and I and the Enhedslisten think it is important that we create a better framework conditions for people who want to start this kind of business to get easier by it, that there will be better advice, that there will be better lending opportunities, and that there will be better legislation that will make it easier to start up that kind of business if you go and have a dream of starting that type of business.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160448	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160450	There is something unmistakably beautiful about it, if the Enhedslisten with what we know from the board of directors etc. is now going to stand on the shoulders of the cooperative movement. That's nice. But I can still hear that it is not just about new companies, where you voluntarily want to enter into that relationship; it may just as well be about established companies, where you want to push it forward politically. The Enhedslisten therefore wants companies that may be fund-based, share-based or otherwise listed to be transferred to this new democratic form of ownership. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160525	No, it's not supposed to be that way. It has to be understood that when, for example, we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point where we get to the point. Looking at the companies' • and this applies not only to the type of companies in Denmark, but also, in fact, in other European countries, competitiveness, their ability to create jobs, their resilience during a financial crisis, you just have to see that they are strong for the economy, and therefore, as a society, we have an interest in promoting such companies. It is not about the state having to go in and take over anything; it is about creating a better framework for a business culture where customers, consumers and employees can go in and be part of the company to a greater extent. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160609	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160613	Thank you for the floor. I am somewhat nervous when I hear the rapporteur talking about small and medium-sized enterprises and the change of generation. The rapporteur understands what happens in a company when you drain own funds so that the next generation can take over and what that means for these approx. 300,000 employees employed in the 23,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have to be transformed over the next 10 years, thereby hampering the development of businesses because they are cutting back on the own funds available?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160650	That is simply a wrong way of doing it. It is just such a quite fact: the Bo and Gift Tax is something that the heir company This means that you have to pay tax on the inheritance, just as you have to pay tax on other inheritances, if you are a citizen of Danish society, and if you are taxable in this country, and that is not a detail, but it is actually very important. It is also about the fact that, with the rules that exist today, you can ask for it to be paid out of over 15 years. So the question here is also following on from what the economic wise men say in this area. The Conservative People's Party has chosen to throw 1 billion. kr. I would like to point out that this is an unproductive way of doing things, i.e. this productivity-retardant measure, which the reduction in the tax on housing and gifts has been when that money could have been spent in a much more sensible way. When will the Conservative People's Party begin, for example? to listen to the economic wise men on this issue if you don't want to listen to the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160753	I think: When will the Enhedslisten begin to listen to the real world, to the Danish business community and to the small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160804	So do we; we listen. When the economic wise men say that you encourage more companies to be governed within a family rather than to be sold or to have another management, and that you thereby reduce productivity in Denmark, why we need 1 billion. kr. A year on reducing productivity in Denmark? I simply do not understand that. As Bent Greve, professor at the Department of Social Sciences and Occupation at Roskilde University, also says that because a family can do something, it is not certain that children can do the same. Because a father is a high-level footballer, it is not certain that the children will be, and that is exactly what is at the heart of this. At the same time, it is a cost of 1 billion. kr., which will also benefit billionaire heirs, a pure tax rebate to the top of society. It's also part of this, and that's why it has to be rolled back.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160844	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160846	There are just a few things that we need to make clear about this tax issue. Sir. Rune Lund says the money doesn't come from the company, but it comes from the heir. It is true that it is the heir who has to pay, but where will someone who inherits a business get that money? After all, all the money is in the company and that money has to be withdrawn from the company in order for the heir to pay his inheritance tax, and it even knows that when you withdraw money from the company, you are taxed, and as far as I remember it is typically 42 per cent, which means you have to pull almost twice as much money out of the company as you have to pay. This is why there is going to be a huge drain on the equity of these family-owned companies; money that they very often cannot afford to pay. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022160931	No, we do not agree on that, because we can have a grace period, and then we can pay it back over 15 years, and now there is talk on the part of the government about extending that period to 30 years. Well, sir. Rasmus Jarlov should not come here and say to me that if you have the opportunity to pay your inheritance tax back over 30 years, it would be a threat to a company 30 years' refund right! If it were to end up being part of a financial law agreement, I would just like to see the company that cannot survive because there is an opportunity to repay over 30 years. In other words, that opportunity is really good and beneficial, and there are no companies that will be affected by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161012	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161015	The Enhedslisten therefore believes that if you are allowed to pay your bills over a long period of time, it is not a burden on a company. Does it also apply to people's private finances that we can just charge them huge bills and tell them that it doesn't matter? It doesn't matter that you have to pay back several million kroner because you can pay them over 30 years at an interest rate above the market rate. So it's a lousy loan the government is offering. After all, the bill still has to be paid, even if it has been allowed to be paid over a long period of time. After all, the bill will not be reduced and the burden for the company will not be reduced by the fact that you are allowed to pay it over a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161051	It's just the whole premise of this discussion, that this is because, when we roll back this tax rebate, a company heir suddenly has to pay the same price as any other Dane, even though today we have an opportunity to pay back over 15 years. That option can be extended to 30 years. And it is just important to say that there is a difference between whether it is the company or whether it is the heir, and it is therefore the heir who pays the estate and gift tax, it is not the company. And it's not just a detail, it's the facts, and it's actually pretty important in this discussion. I can see that there are a lot of bourgeois politicians who are trying to mix it all up in a big lighthouse, but it is not in fact an insignificant detail that it is the heir who pays the estate and gift tax, it is not the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161136	Thank you. Then we close the list with the exception of the next person who has asked to speak, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party. I should just like to urge you, when you want to have the floor in the second place, to press the button, because then the President does not have to be an intermediary, and that gives a much better flow in the debate for those who sit and see it, that there should not always be a President sitting and interfering in the discussion. So I think it'll be public friendly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161208	I really think we are having a rather good debate, so I would like to follow up on what my two good fellow party members have also asked about. I also find it very difficult to see this violent distinction between the company and the heir, because where are you going to get the money from, if it isn't the firm? Something that really provokes me in this debate is the way many red parties have an ability to talk about this hitting the few richest families in Denmark. That expression was also used by the Socialist rapporteur in the past. Nine out of ten Danish companies are family owned. 850,000 Danes work in a family-owned company. Thus, a family business includes the bricklayer, who passes on his business to his son or daughter. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur think that the possibility of the son or daughter continuing an ordinary bricklayer's or electrician's business will benefit from the imposition of this tax? Does this increase the likelihood of continuing the business, or does it increase the likelihood that employees may have to be dismissed in order to realise what has to be paid to the State?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161320	It can be said that the question is this: will it be that we are rolling back the tax rebate that the blue parties have made, damaging the Danish economy? The answer to that question is no. It will not harm the Danish economy on the contrary, one might say. For the tax rebate, which among other things. After all, the Conservative People's Party has been behind this, and I think that is something that the Conservative People's Party should relate to. In other words, when economic wise men go out and strongly recommend that these very types of companies should not be taken into account at the expense of others, does this not give rise to some sort of reflection by the Conservative People's Party? Doesn't it give cause for thought that when we look at this question, it's not about the economy? After all, it is not an economic issue in the sense that the roll-back will damage the Danish economy. On the contrary. Well, it's just like Mr. Kim. Karsten Lauritzen, the former tax minister, said: it is not an economic issue, it is a moral issue. So I just ask: where is the moral value of some people having to pay a lower tax than all other Danes, just because they are heirs of a family-owned company? Excuse me, that doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161435	Now, however, I have to break into the debate when a little over and above the speaking time is spoken a little over and above the speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161441	It is absolutely true that this is not just an economic issue. This is also a moral question, and the fact that the rapporteur is able to use the term tax rebate shows how far apart we are in this discussion. It is not a discount when you reduce the amount you have to pay to the public. That means you get to keep a little more of your own money. It's not a discount. Danish companies contribute 72 billion. kr. in corporation tax every perpetual year • 72 billion. kr.! Then the rapporteur cannot recognise that Danish companies are already making an abundant contribution to the welfare society that we all enjoy and benefit from.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161522	Indeed, and why are there some of the companies that have to have a particularly low tax rate, so that some heirs of certain companies, the family-owned companies, have to have particularly favourable conditions at the expense of other companies? How reasonable is that? I simply do not understand that. I also think that this is such a general attack on the housing and gift tax of the Conservative People's Party. It has to be said that if we are to make up for the growing inequality, there are three places we need to look at: 1) one more reasonable, i.e.. higher taxation of the highest incomes, 2) taxation of wealth, 3) fair taxation of inheritance. You just have to note that if you are not interested in looking at exactly the three areas, then you can talk about reducing inequality, because that will not happen. So the three areas are absolutely central, and therefore inheritance taxation is also very necessary in order to combat inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161618	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rune Lund as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and goes further in the rapporteur's line. And this is sir. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022161639	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by congratulating the government once again on becoming a government. It would perhaps be to extend a little too far to say that we are delighted, but we wish the government good luck and we hope that the government will be a success, because it is important for Denmark that there is a well-functioning government. The government has taken over a Danish economy in exceptional top form. All the key figures are good: we have relatively high growth, we have large surpluses in the balance of payments, low inflation and surpluses in the state budget. Although, at the time of his accession, the Minister of Finance tried to spin a story about the lack of money in the box, no one jumped on it, because the truth is that we have left a bumpy treasury and a very large room for manoeuvre. In other words, we are collecting more money from the citizens than is needed. So let there be an apology: I'm sorry, taxpayers, we shouldn't take so much of your money at all. That won't be necessary. Everyone in this Parliament and the government should remember that the citizens are not there for us. It is we who exist for their sake; it is we who should serve them and we should have respect for their money. It is, of course, necessary to levy taxes, but it is not an end in itself to do so. On the contrary, tax collection is an evil and we should not charge more than necessary. Unfortunately, this is not an understanding that shines through in the government's financial bill. Even if there is this huge room for manoeuvre and thus a surplus in the state budget, the government is going to raise taxes anyway. The Social Democrats and also the Enhedslisten here just before try to interpret it as if they are simply going to roll back tax reliefs that we have given. It's wrong. For example, the government wants to increase the taxation of family-owned companies, so that it will be much higher than it was when we arrived in 2015 with a bourgeois majority, i.e. a clear tax increase, and for some companies it will be an extremely high bill. The government could easily raise public expenditure without raising taxes. That's what it means when there's room for manoeuvre. But the government apparently sees raising taxes as an end in itself. This is interesting, because it is an expression of a social democracy which is quite far to the left, compared with where social democracy has historically been. It is also a financial act which unfortunately does not make Denmark richer. A direct negative effect on employment is expected, which is therefore not according to the CEPOS or other bourgeois economists; it is according to the Ministry of Finance. And that's even before Enhedslisten has got some of his demands through. Former social democratic governments have, in recent decades, been behind many of the reforms which are the reason why today we have such a strong economy and such a high level of employment. Now the Social Democrats are embarking on a course that will make fewer people want to be in work. Unfortunately, it is a little more like Anker Jørgensen than Nyrup and Lykketoft or Thorning-Schmidt for that matter. It is worth reminding that the good times do not necessarily last. We must not throw them out and start pursuing an irresponsible economic policy when we are at the top of a boom, as we are doing now. We would like to appeal to the Socialists not to make reforms that make us poorer. We do not need higher cash aid, as the Socialists have proposed; we do not need more refugees, as the Socialists have also proposed. On the other hand, we need continued strict economic governance, respect for taxpayers' money and reforms that support prosperity in Denmark, rather than using all the energy to make the public sector as large as possible. We should reduce taxes instead of raising taxes, for example on family-owned businesses. We should abolish the tax on company phones instead of reintroducing it. We should support the fact that it is worthwhile to make an effort instead of raising cash benefits, so that it becomes almost as attractive as taking a low-paid job, as the government is now doing. There is good reason to criticise the government for the quite a number of breaches it has already committed, not only against Arne, but also against Arne, among others. The area of foreigners, in which, contrary to its solemn promises to the electorate, the government has embarked on the process of relaxing foreign policy with both higher benefits, more quota refugees and a number of other measures. This is not so much a resurrection, because we have almost got used to the fact that this is what the Socialists are doing. They promise a whole lot, win power and then run from it. Once all that criticism has been delivered, there is also reason to help the government if we can. The government should know that it can always count on the Conservative People's Party to help with the green transition, as we know the government is also concerned, as it is with us. The government does not need to carry out the green transition together with the anti-business parties it can also implement it with us. We think the business community will be happy if it interests the government. We are ready to make a climate law, we are ready to reduce Denmark's emissions of CO2 We would also like to help the government if it wishes to prioritize Danish nature, social policy, Danish tourism and culture. These are areas which are somewhat surprisingly absent from the financial law of the Social Democrats, just as we also wonder why nothing is actually being done at all for the framework conditions of Danish business and that there is a lack of a plan for investment in infrastructure. We might have thought of that, and we hope we will. We are also happy to help in terms of justice policy, defence policy and economic policy. The government does not need to give Enhedslisten the right of veto. We are ready to put forward mandates as well. If the government wants a continued tight immigration policy, a further strengthening of the defence and police and a responsible economic policy, then the government can have it. It only requires the government to invite us instead of making very narrow agreements with the extreme left. Then, as a former Minister for Business and Industry, I would like to send a special greeting to the Minister for Tax and Industry. We do not agree on how many burdens we have to impose on business and citizens we want lower taxes, while the government wants higher taxes, but we should agree that we need less bureaucracy and fewer unnecessarily cumbersome rules in Denmark. For example, we should simplify our hopelessly complicated tax system. There are virtually no Danes today who can understand and calculate their tax returns. First, labour market contributions are collected, and then other taxes are collected from what is then left, but only after a reduction in employment has been deducted and a green cheque has been added. It has become very, very complicated and difficult to understand, so let's clean it up. A simplification can be carried out without people having to pay neither more nor less in taxes, compared to what they are paying today; the same progressiveness can be maintained and the same proceeds can be retained. You just have to pay a more simple tax, so we don't have to spend millions of hours on unnecessary bureaucracy and sit watching many different accounts and get hurt in the head by trying to see through our tax returns. In our view, this is an agenda on which the whole parliament should be able to agree, precisely because it can be implemented without any distributional advances. We look forward to good cooperation with the government. We hope that the government will establish a broad cooperation on a rich, green and fair Denmark, where we take good care of our country, support the weak and let the strong unfold. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162506	We thank the rapporteur. There are eight who have signed up and so that people may be allowed to make their presence available, I would just mention that it is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Mr. Henrik Møller, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Mr. Thomas Jensen, sir. Christian Juhl and Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who has signed up for the time being. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162535	Thank you. For a number of years, while the previous government was there and Rasmus Jarlov was also a minister, some quite substantial savings were made on training to the detriment of young people, education institutions and, in fact, business. We need productive, skilled labour. That is one of the things that can be abolished when you give priority to what we do and, for example, to what we do. removes the special advantage granted to those who inherit an undertaking which has a lower inheritance tax than others. We shall then return to the percentage level at which it was when the Left came to power last time. This reduces inequality and thus provides some means of strengthening education. There has then been such a debate today that it should be very damaging to the Danish economy, and I would just like to ask Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to confirm that the economic wise men, for example. rejects that it is correct. You may have a political desire to lower this inheritance tax, but economically it is not to the detriment of the Danish economy that it comes back to the level where it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162647	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162652	It is true that the wise men have argued in favour of reducing capital taxes on different types of companies. You can achieve it in two ways. Of course, the taxation of family-owned companies can be increased; it could also be reduced for the other companies. Then we would also have eliminated the inequality that the wise men are pointing to. Then I think it is very wrong to continue to talk about the new government returning tax relief we have made. Because what happened in our time was that you really lowered the rate of how much you pay, but at the same time the ratings were increased, so you paid a lower rate of a larger amount. So if the new government thinks it wants to roll back, then it must also apply to the basis of assessment, so that it is rolled back completely. Otherwise, if you have the high ratings and a high percentage, we will land a much higher place.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162755	So, the very conditions for how to pay an inheritance tax, how to value it and how many years there are to pay it, etc., the government would like to discuss. But we think it is fair that there is the same rate and that you move the percentage back to where it was. Now, sir, he's sweeping away. Rasmus Jarlov saw the wise men a little light. I am now right about how they have said it, namely that there is no harm to the Danish economy by having this inheritance tax. The previous government has also replied to the Folketing. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen, who was Minister of Taxation, answered the Danish Parliament. It is a moral issue, it is a political issue where you want it to be. It's not to the detriment of the economy. And I just thought that would suit this debate, that is to say that we got there. So it is okay to have a political disagreement about it, because that is the way it should be; but could we at least recognise what even the government, Mr President? Rasmus Jarlov himself was part of, said about the inheritance tax, yes, then it would make everything better, I think. Will Mr. Rasmus Jarlov didn't confirm that was actually the answer to the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162901	Yes, it is true that this is what the wise men have said. I have also personally discussed this with the wise men. I don't even remember if Mr. Knox... Jesper Petersen was present, but we discussed it in the Finance Committee on Friday before the autumn holidays, where the wise men also agreed that there is the challenge that it is not just that one can change company form completely freely. There is no large market for the sale of small craft enterprises or small kiosks in Denmark. Therefore, it is not the case that one can just switch to another form of company. The problem, as the wise men point out, that it can encourage the choice of a particular form of company, seems to me to be very theoretical. I do not think there are any companies, at least very few, that have chosen company form because of taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162947	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022162950	Thank you. Now I know that the Conservative People's Party prides itself on being the Green Party in the blue block, and that is why I am concerned if not the Conservative People's Party too could be involved in working for concrete CO2 in the Radical Left's financial bill we are proposing 1 billion. kr. set aside for the removal of vulnerable agricultural land. This is a significant priority, but indeed some of the things that help reduce CO2 could the Conservative People's Party be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163031	I do not think it is very far off for us to be involved in such initiatives. In any case, I believe that it is a challenge for nature in Denmark, not just for the climate, that we have such an intensively cultivated country. It would be better for species diversity, aquatic environment and CO2 So it would be good for Denmark to have more natural areas, and it was also something we worked for throughout the period we sat in government, namely that we got more nature in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163105	Good, and thank you for that. I would just like to follow up on the question whether the Conservative People's Party is also willing to give priority to the fact that we are actually spending funds on taking out vulnerable agricultural land as early as next year. I know that the Conservative People's Party has heard the question earlier from Mrs Abildgaard too. It is true that it will also create more nature. You can, for example. travel forest. But we also need wild nature reserves. It is also one of the proposals in our draft budget. Would the Conservative People's Party also be able to support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163141	I think we could. You have to make a finance bill where things are connected plus and minus, so it all goes up and so you have funding for it. So it's not easy just to discuss it loosely, in terms of what a global finance bill looks like. However, it is also very close to our environmental policy and we want to go in the same direction as Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163204	Then I mentioned one order before, but it is the case that the general rapporteurs have the right of priority, and therefore small adjustments can be made in that order. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163219	Thank you very much. The Bo and Gift Tax is an important matter and I think we have talked a lot about it. So I would like to ask you about the policy of the Conservatives in the area of climate change. It may not be possible to say that everything else is equal without an ambitious effort there, but everything else is so dependent on the business environment too. Now I haven't seen if the Conservatives have come up with a proposal for the Finance Act... no... Rasmus Jarlov tells us how much, if it were for the Conservatives, we would then like to invest in relation to the climate area? Now I am not talking about the whole green area, but specifically in relation to climate investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163314	We also give very high priority to the climate, and there should be no doubt about that. And, of course, we are also willing to allocate funds to it. None of us, including the SF, have a complete plan with the concrete steps to be taken in order to achieve the climate objectives that we also support on the part of our party for a 70-percent reduction. That is why I cannot give a specific answer to what climate investment we think needs to be done. There we simply need more than the thinking power in relation to the official apparatus we have in the Conservative People's Party to come up with the good ideas. So what is important now is to make up for all the suggestions you can. We think that it is probably a little up to the government with the apparatus it possesses to make some proposals on which we can then decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163401	It is absolutely true that we need action in all areas, including in many areas where we, as politicians, are not experts at all. After all, however, we know a number of instruments that depend on whether or not we give them political priority. Agriculture & Food included e.g. this collaboration with the Danish Nature Conservation Association to make a proposal for the removal of vulnerable farmland; something that we know is very, very effective. But it costs some money, like forest costs some money, and electrification of our entire passenger transport costs some money, etc. So does the rapporteur not agree that we know quite a lot of means, not enough in relation to the 70%, but quite a lot, and that this is also something we need to invest some money in in order to promote?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163451	Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163502	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163504	I just have a comment to make. In relation to whether or not there should be anyone making a global bid on how we can solve the challenge of a 70-percent reduction in climate gases by 2030, I would just like to refer to the climate plan presented by Enhedslisten in February, which, precisely with concrete means, indicates how we are going to solve that problem, precisely a 70-percent reduction in climate gases by 2030. It is fully funded and it is financed in such a way that it does not turn the heavy end down, in other words that it is not the case that we send the bill to the poorest. These are the three parameters that we see as crucial in any climate plan. That's our guess. We would also like others to play their part with equally detailed and thorough proposals. But we actually have an overall estimate of how it can be. What I really want to ask, however, is how the Conservative People's Party feels about spending so much money on tax cuts... what has been agreed between 2015 and 2019 under the Blue Government will cost almost 22 billion. kr. a year and at the same time you leave a bill for the rest of us of 3.5 billion. kr., which we shall then pick up. So you have been very good at making permanent tax cuts, but when it comes to appropriations for the police, then it could only be temporary appropriations; they happen to run out as the parliamentary term just ends. Is it financially responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163616	It was, after all, a dream question: how does the Conservative People's Party feel about the fact that we have had a significant reduction in taxes in the last period of government? We are extremely comfortable with that, we are proud of that, we are delighted about that. We are grateful to those who have voted with us for putting the treasure down. We're very, very happy about it. Of course, the only thing we could have imagined was that we would have had the tax lowered even more. We haven't left a bill. On the contrary, we have left a huge margin of manoeuvre where there is indeed an opportunity to raise public expenditure without the need to raise taxes and there will still be surpluses in the state budget. There is enormous room for manoeuvre, and it has even been adjusted up several times here in recent months after we have left government offices. So the only thing that can be annoyed about is, of course, that we have actually come to collect too much money from taxpayers and, of course, we should pay them back to taxpayers when we are actually faced with the situation of charging more than we need. So it may be the only wormwood in the cup, but otherwise we are really proud of the tax cuts we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163724	I understand that the Conservative People's Party is quite comfortable leaving a bill of 3.5 billion. kr. in 2020. Then it may be that sir... Rasmus Jarlov says that the room for manoeuvre after 2020 is really big and things like that. The reality is that in the Finance Act we are now negotiating, we have to find 3.5 billion. kr., because it's a bill that's left by the bourgeois government. It has to be said that if temporary appropriations had not been granted, for example. The police, we'd have had 3.5 billion. kr. more in the negotiating reserve for these finance negotiations and there are also other reserves we can look at. But it's just a fact. I would like that to be taken into account, that is to say, permanent tax reductions, which are most beneficial to those at the top, even in crowns and ears, but when it comes to the police, they just have to have some temporary appropriations, and then others can pick up the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163822	I don't quite know what the question was. Well, we've given money to the police. We're proud of that, too. This is one of the areas in which we are actually in favour of a slightly larger budget because we give priority to security quite a high priority. We think it is a key task for a state to take care to combat crime and ensure the safety of its citizens. So we're proud of that, too. We haven't left a hole. We have left the Danish economy in exceptional top form with a huge room for manoeuvre, which means that you can spend more money or that you can lower taxes and there are still surpluses in the state budget in the long term. At the same time, we have left the Danish economy with good growth, low inflation and huge employment. You're welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163900	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163901	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to return to some of what was asked earlier about climate action and climate investment, because I think it is a little easy to get over it by saying that now we have to wait to see what the government is bringing in. What is it that conservatives want to invest in relation to concrete climate action now? Will you help to see how we can raise money to make the big investments that need to be made, for example, as the bourgeois government in the Netherlands does through green bonds? Are there any other measures that would be taken now and here, so that we can get started, and that we do not make the generational change that we are unfortunately heading into?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022163937	Of course, we have some concrete things that we would like to do, and I think our climate rapporteur could explain that even more in detail than I can. But we would like to have more nature in Denmark, and we would also like to have a lighter tax on electric cars, which, for example, is very important for us to have more green energy, and then we would also like to help our business community, which has the technology needed to deliver the power that is needed for, among other things, energy. electric cars. So we do have some proposals, but as I said before, we are certainly not so keen on everything that is of technological potential that we feel that it is in the Conservative Group room that we have to sit and figure out what overall needs to be done to achieve the goal of a 70-percent reduction of CO2 We need the government apparatus with the thousands of officials sitting there, we need green organisations and business organisations to be brought together and find out what solutions are most effective. We will get a better climate plan out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164034	But what is so important is also to look at how we raise the money that we have to invest together and not just say: that is probably something that private business does and then some technology comes out there. How do we take our responsibilities upon ourselves in here and take concrete action? This requires us to raise the money for it and not to wait for others, but to point out how we do it. That is why I ask specifically whether we want to play a part, as has been done in the Netherlands, for example, in raising money for the investments to be made in the Community through green bonds. Is this something to be supported by the conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164109	I do not think it is, and I do not think it will be seen either that we think that a huge extra revenue should be raised in the form of increased taxes in order to pay for a climate change change. We therefore believe that the tax burden is high enough in Denmark in advance, and we believe that priority can be given around so that the initiatives that need to be taken can be made. That will certainly be our clear starting point. We agree that we need to reduce our emissions and that we need to achieve targets. But our starting point is, of course, that it should not be a cat's doorstep in order to introduce a lot of taxes, a planned economy and all sorts of other socialism that we are opposed to. Of course, we come from different places, but we will back up, and we will help to do what it takes to reduce our emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164154	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164156	Thanks for the speech. My question has to do with the police. It is, of course, the case in the Finance Act that the government is continuing the economy that has been in the hands of the police for the last four years, one year ahead. We are very critical of the fact that an agreement is not being reached now, because the situation of the police is serious. The police are understaffed, we can see that. The police are manned after the situation before al-Qaeda and Islamic State and all the other challenges we see now. My question to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov goes on to the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten speech just now. It was, of course, that even what lies in the government's draft Finance Bill is the problem there, which is after all a transfer one year ahead, namely that the appropriation that has been allocated for the last four years is apparently going to be altered by the Enhedslisten. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is really very worrying that a potential conciliation party will not even continue the economy that the police now have?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164313	Thank you to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164316	I agree with that. Of course, we will not be supporting any initiatives that harm the police. We want a strong police force and we agree that they need the resources needed to combat crime and all the other social tasks that they have been given, among other things. terror protection and all sorts of other things that draw enormous resources from our police. So we can be absolutely sure that this is a matter which is very close to our hearts.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164339	That sounds good. Then we're clear. Do we also agree that the level of the economy of the police, which the government has put forward, but only one year ahead, with the 150 net extra police officers, is not high enough and that we must reach at least 300 additional police officers and thus also fill out those seats at the police school in Jutland, which are actually currently vacant? It's bad for the police to operate with spare capacity. Does the rapporteur of the Conservatives agree with the Danish People's Party that this is about having 300 extra officers next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164419	I am not sufficiently aware of how many people there can be exactly at a police school and what the need is, to put precise figures on how many extra police officers we would like at this time. I would like to answer that, but I think I have to ask our legal rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164436	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164439	Thank you. The rapporteur often likes to call the previous government infallible, and I would like to ask a few questions about that, because if we take that premise, it was not the government's fault that the free telephone bill was not adopted in time, one might say. We are now in a situation where tax relief is cancelled and instead is about to introduce a new tax. Could the rapporteur not try to lighten the lid a little over where things went wrong? Because it was in 2017 that it was decided and it was adopted in 2018. Why was this legislation not implemented so that it was implemented from 2019? After all, the economic room for manoeuvre has been said over and over again and that you are delivering an economy in top form and everything, so it is not because you have lacked the money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164532	As a Conservative, of course, I believe that the previous government was infallible... it goes without saying... just as the royal house is. Nevertheless, I would like to say that, of course, there may be things that one might have intended to be carried out more quickly, and it is not the case that when we stand here today after four years with a bourgeois government, there is nothing that can be done better in Denmark. We would still have liked to have continued and worked further to implement a lot of good things for the benefit of Denmark and the Danes. But now one can only rejoice that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has come to Parliament, because then you know that something is going to happen. All of us who do not have enough power are obviously unable to do so quickly enough, so now I look forward to having the free telephone in place within a few months.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164618	Thank you for your confidence. I shall do my best to ensure that something happens that is being dealt with. But now I asked about the previous government and why it was not implemented then. That was a specific question. Why was it not implemented from 2019 instead of until 2020? After all, this is a concrete question that I hope you will give an answer to by either simply saying that you don't know, or by saying what the reason was, that you didn't implement it from 2019 when it was decided in 2018 and the room was there.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164644	It was because there was no economy to speed it up; at least there was no political desire to prioritize it in the budgets at the time. We would always like tax cuts to be implemented and we would also like them to be implemented as soon as possible. There would certainly also have been a lot more tax relief if it had been Conservatives who had sat in government alone. There is no doubt that we have been one of the parties that has fought most to lower taxes with the Liberal Alliance in particular. But there are still things that could have been done even better, even though we have been part of a bourgeois government for the last four years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164718	Then we are a little back in the order I mentioned before. For the record, I shall mention it again: sir. Henrik Møller, sir. Christian Juhl, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Mrs. Victoria Velasquez and Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen. Then there have been several questions about the evening break, and we are planning to go after Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, when we have been through the rapporteur's speech and debate on the alternative's views on the Finance Act. Then I shall give the floor to Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164750	Thank you. In connection with the Prime Minister's opening speech, there were some who subsequently claimed that it was both dark and very gloomy, but I think that when I hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov now here comment a little on how the Finance Act and development will be for Danish society, so it pales the criticism at least slightly. What we have seen is that the Conservatives, like us, have tried to draw a picture of the social democracy's proposal to normalise or maintain the estate and inheritance tax, is harmful to Danish business. In this context, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he disagrees with the former tax minister, Mr. Karsten Lauritzen, and former Minister of Finance, Mr. Kristian Jensen, who has both replied to the Danish Parliament that there are no behavioural effects and therefore no effects on growth and employment linked to adjusting the housing and gift tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164852	I must admit that I do not know that Kristian Jensen should have sent such an answer. I would like to look at that afterwards, but at least I disagree with that assertion, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164904	Just to follow up, the former tax minister, sir. Karsten Lauritzen, as we mentioned a little earlier, has actually gone so far as to say that this is not about the economy, but that it alone is a moral consideration. Does the rapporteur agree with that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164916	We always believe that it is important to do good for Danish companies, and of course we believe that it has an impact on Danish companies, whether they have a huge million bill with them. And that is what we are doing if we want to increase, not roll-back, the taxation of family-owned companies, as the government has proposed. And we think this is problematic for Danish companies, and thus it also has the potential to cost growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164944	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022164946	Thank you. I come from the extreme left, according to Conservatives. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a few questions, since far too many people in the middle are wandering around, including Conservatives. If you do not want to go to extremes, then there is no reason to go. I would like to say that I am surprised that, after we have been discussing the Finance Act for almost seven hours, there is a long way to go between the rapporteurs who are discussing development aid and climate aid, although we know that this is what can affect the economy quite a lot. In other words, if we do not provide development aid, there is a very great risk that we will have a great many refugees, especially if we do not provide any of the long-term development aid. And to highlight something positive to the Conservatives, I would like to say that I remember that they helped a tiny bit during the first six months of the bourgeois government to slow down the cuts in development aid. Will Conservatives help to ensure that we get some new money for climate aid so that the world's poorest can also make a contribution, perhaps even large contributions for small money, when we need to make climate improvements in the future, so that we do not have to wait for the others?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165105	Yes, please! Despite the Asger Jorn quote, speaking time does not increase for the author. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165115	It is true that we have kept our hands on development aid and made sure that it has not been cut too much during the period when we have sat in government and been part of the bourgeois majority. In fact, it has been important to us that we have lived up to our commitments to provide aid to developing countries. We would like to continue to do so, but I do not think we will see that we are going to propose that we should make major, dramatic withdrawals from development aid. However, we would like to be involved in giving priority to climate aid; we also think that this is important. I think it should also be borne in mind that some of the most important things we can do for the climate around the world are not via development aid, but it is to make sure that the Danish companies, for example Ørsted, Vestas and others who are leaders in green technology, have good opportunities to spread it to the rest of the world. This is probably a greater contribution than we can make with climate aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165206	Thank you. After all, I was wondering whether the Conservatives would be helping to find new money, because there is a trend at the moment, including in the government, that development aid from the world's poorest and providing it as climate aid would be desirable. This means that there are no schools, hospitals and medicines and such things for the poorest people who are getting less of it at least, because aid is being provided as climate aid instead of finding some new money for it. I would like to ask: is it also the Conservatives' position to do so in this way, or will one see a real progressiveness in the Conservatives' attitude to climate aid, so that new money can be found, whether it benefits Danish companies or not? We need to find that money and we have promised the UN that they are new.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165255	Well, I really think I replied fairly directly to it before, and that was a polite way of saying: No, we probably will not; it is not in our plans that we are going to increase development aid. We want us to live up to our commitments, and we have also kept our hands on the aid, in relation to it being cut back, as previously other civil parties wanted. However, we do not plan to spend much more on overall development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165318	Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165320	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov mentioned a lot of things that we didn't need. Among other things: we did not need greater public spending. The government, together with the National Association of Municipalities, has just concluded an economic agreement which amounts to 2.3 billion. kr. more to welfare by 2020 and ensures a real growth in public consumption of 1.3%. Nevertheless, the rapporteur's party colleague, Michael Ziegler, who is the mayor of Høje Taastrup and the board member of the National Association of Municipalities, said that this agreement was not good enough, that it did not provide enough money for welfare, and that therefore, for the first time in the 10 years he has been on the board of the National Association of Municipalities, he would not vote for an agreement. In this context, it may also be worth mentioning that Michael Ziegler has always voted in favour of previous agreements, including in 2016 and 2017, where the agreements were significantly worse than the one that was concluded this year. Could the rapporteur please explain to me what this is all about?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165429	The rapporteur is allowed to do so here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165431	I'd love to. Now I can only guess what Mr. Michael Ziegler thinks I'm not him, so maybe you should ask him yourself. But I believe that he and the other Conservative mayors feel that they would like to have a budget which allows them to fulfil all the many tasks entrusted to them by the Folketing. So when the Danish Parliament gives the municipalities more tasks now there are some who, for example, want minimum standards around the institutions; it's very hyped right now that of course there must also be some money with. I think that is a very reasonable demand to make, even by a Conservative mayor, even though, as a Conservative, we are opposed, as a starting point, to increasing public spending. So they say: when you ask me to do all these tasks, I also need a budget that is equivalent to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165516	Thank you. Sorry, I was wrong to assume that the rapporteur is also talking to his party colleagues. Maybe it was my fault. But now I'm getting a little confused. If sir... Michael Ziegler believes that greater consumption is needed than 1.3 per cent, and the rapporteur says that there is no need for greater consumption, so I will just be a little in doubt and I think that everyone in this House might do that about what is really Conservative's policy. So, is there a need for greater consumption, or is there no need for greater consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165547	But there should be no doubt about what is the policy of the Conservative People's Party. That's what I'm saying here. I stand here as rapporteur for the party and tell you what is the party's policy and we are not in favour of greater public spending. However, we are also in favour of proper treatment of the municipalities and of not loading them with a whole lot of extra tasks. Now the Socialists want more refugees. This is going to cost extra around the municipalities. Some want minimum standards, and there are many other things that the Folketing promises to solve. When you do, of course, you also have to give the money that it takes to solve those tasks, and there it may be difficult to be mayor, i.e. if you are asked for a whole lot, but you do not get money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165625	Mrs Victoria Velasquez of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165627	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for among other things. The comment that the previous government was infallible At least it leaves me a little puzzled about the rapporteur's response to the company owners who are disappointed that they are paying their taxes, that they contribute to the care of their children, that they contribute to the roads to the infrastructure and that they contribute to equal access to health while they see that others do not. To me, at least, they are rather frustrated and see it as a distortion of competition that there is such a gap that so much resources are lacking in the tax administration, because while they are paying their taxes, they see that other companies are not doing so. So I do not quite see the connection between the previous government being infallible and the huge problem we face in the tax administration. Can the rapporteur try to help me understand that part a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165726	Well, I may think that sometimes it can be hard to understand funny remarks... apparently. Of course, I do not think that the previous government was infallible. It was, of course, a joke, and I hope you understood that. No human being is. And therefore it is also the case that there are things that could be done even better, even after we have spent 4 years with a bourgeois government, which I think has done well, but which of course was human and not divine, and therefore was not infallible just so it is in place. Well, we're as much opponents as Enhedslisten might be, of tax fraud it's clear. We are also in favour of a strong tax system. We may have different ways of solving the problems. I think, for example, that the most obvious thing to make the tax administration work was to create more simple tax rules. Today, the tax rules have become so complicated that even if you call the tax administration and ask what the tax rules are, they cannot answer it. That's where we are. And there I just think it is quite obvious to go to the task and make sure that the tax system is understood so that the tax administration can manage their tasks and so that citizens can understand what it is all about. But we need a tax administration that works. I don't think anyone in the Folketing disagrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165837	Thanks for the investigation and for the glimpse in the eye. In terms of being able to call the tax administration and in relation to being able to approach the tax administration, it requires someone to be able to answer the phone, and this requires that there are some years' work that we have seen that really, very much has been cut on. And in terms of someone having to be able to handle these tasks, it also requires that we have some employees who can carry out that task, rather than having blind confidence that it can be an IT solution that can do it. And just when we're talking about glimpses in the eye and humor, it was almost what Enhedslisten was met with when we said: You can't just fire the employees in the IRS; an IT program can't just solve it. So I would just like to hear: what do the rapporteur think we should do in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022165920	I think we should have more simple tax rules so that there is no need for just as many tax workers and so that citizens can understand what sort of rules you are dealing with. Well, last summer I called to find out about the rules of renting a van. I bought a van because I moved here this summer. Then you call three different people, and then you finally get Per or whatever his name was, who was the one who knew about the rules for renting vans, and then he says: Well, I think the rules are like this, but I don't dare give a binding answer because I'm not quite sure. Even quite simple things cannot be answered in the tax administration, because the rules have become so complicated. It is our responsibility to ensure that the tax administration works, among other things. by ensuring that there are tax rules that are to be administered and we are not there today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170006	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170008	Thank you. And thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I would like to sign for the constructive approach to the opposition role that the Conservatives are starting with today. Perhaps some of the other bourgeois parties could learn something from. In his speech, the rapporteur emphasized the green and strongly advocated that we should take good care of our nature, and I very much agree with the rapporteur. One of the things that lies out in our nature and that is messed up and that shouldn't be there is plastic. That is why, in connection with the draft budget, the government has proposed a tax on carrier bags. We want to make carry bags 50 cents more expensive, and we want to raise the price of one-time service with right in the vicinity of 20 percent. That'll be 20%. less carrying bags, and it will give almost 3,000 tonnes of less waste within these categories. Is this a proposal that Conservatives can support?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170110	Thank you, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen to recognise that we are trying to be constructive towards the government, because we are doing so, and it is actually very important for us that it is also perceived in this way. We also hope that the government will make use of us in the coming period, because in fact we believe that in many cases it will be beneficial for Denmark and indeed also for the government if we are used to obtain a broad majority; also because it gives the government some scope for action so that it will not be possible for some parties on the extreme left to make very tough demands which the government cannot then say no to, because there are no other options. That is why we see it as our duty to bid and make sure that we help the government, and we hope that we can be involved in a great many areas. Among other things: in the field of the environment, we very much hope that we can come along. We are not allergic to green taxes. I am not going to stand on the platform and take a stand on the specific issue until we have heard more about the effects of a plastic tax, but we are not allergic to it. There may be an excellent economic rationale in putting green taxes on various products that you want to have less of. We are just not in favour of tax pressure rising, so you have to lower taxes and taxes elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170222	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has not asked for a further reply, so we now move on to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170228	Thank you for that, President. It was actually because Enhedslisten asked a rather interesting question about development aid, and it is true that when you look at the figures from 2018, which we now have, we spent 16.3 billion. kr. You could also go in to see that we have spent 832 million. kr. on climate, environment, nature and other measures related to this; and as the rapporteur for Conservatives was also asked by the Enhedslisten, it is true that we see that very many refugees are now not fleeing from hunger and war, but are also fleeing from natural disasters and other things. If you can't find new money, and we kind of agree with that, are the Conservatives ready to start looking at a change, that is to say target more? Because now that we can see that people are fleeing because of climate change, I guess it makes sense to use development aid to ensure that these people can also cultivate their land and ensure that development aid is used to ensure that there are no floods, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170333	This can make a great deal of sense, and I suppose that is what we have been doing in recent years, when more and more of development aid has just gone to that type of aid around here. And we think that is quite reasonable. Of course, we also agree with the Danish People's Party that it is important that we address the refugee challenges around us. After all, we have stood together over the last four years and before that, and we will do so in the future too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170400	I find this very interesting, because development aid can quickly turn into some projects, and we can also see that, unfortunately, when we evaluate some of those projects that do not provide much. But it is good if it is projects that really do something about climate, environment and nature. When you just look at something like the African continent, you live over 20%. of the population actually of protein from the sea. That is why it could be profitable, for example, to look at whether we can help ensure that there is less plastic in the world's oceans, because then we can ensure that there is a greater basis for food, and that is why it is in the long run a better way of using development aid. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170441	At least I agree with that in principle. I believe that each development project needs to be carefully assessed... benefits and disadvantages... and made some estimates of where you get the most for the money. In principle, however, I very much agree with those considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170455	Those were the words of Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, whom we thank. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is another Rasmus, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022170513	When the voters back in June chose a new government, I think many did so because they wanted a new direction, a political change of course. Would the voters have had more of the same: more tax cuts, more and cheaper petrol cars, more labour market reforms, yes, then the election result would have looked different. But, as you know, that was not the case. The citizens decided it was time for a change of throne. They chose the Red Block's promise of change and the hope of a new time: the time of the climate, the time of the exposed, the time of the children and the time of the public employees. Of course, these promises of change, a new era, are taken into account when you sit and read the government's financial act. The obvious question, therefore, is whether the playout is in line with the change that the electorate was looking forward to. Can one actually see that Denmark has a new government and a new government that also wants a new direction? The short answer to that question must be an immediate and, unfortunately, no. The proposal is certainly better than what we saw from the previous government, and as such there is nothing wrong with most of the proposals. No, the problem is actually about everything that is not in play, everything that did not become room for, but which, in some way, had been put in the view of the people. It's kind of like the government is turning a little bit on some little buttons, but the machine is basically the same. These are some good little adjustments, but what we don't see with this game is how we build a new machine, how we get on with the system change that needs to be done. Roughly speaking, this looks like a little is enough. We can take the green area. After all, it is very good that the government will increase investment in green research by 1 billion. kr., but it takes more than one billion, especially since it does not give priority to new money for nature and climate. It is as if the government has forgotten that the green transition requires ambitious investments. I am tempted to ask where the many billions for the green investment fund of the Social Democratic Party have gone. There was a lot of talk about them during the election campaign. Where is the money to fund 75,000 hectares of untouched forest and 15 natural parks that we heard about in Hirtshals in the spring? With a galloping climate and biodiversity crisis over us, it is therefore a little disappointing that there is no more green transition in this proposal. However, there may still be hope, because, as I understand the Minister for Finance, we are very open to increasing our ambitions, as long as money is accompanied by fair enough, the bill has to be paid. That is why, of course, we have also accepted the invitation of the Minister of Finance, because if there is something we would like to do, it is helping the government to honour the green promises of the election campaign. We have proposed in the past to finance the green transition through green taxes, the polluter pays principle, etc. Then we have also made a proposal to bring forward pension taxation. It could unleash 20 billion. kr. a year for the conversion of transport and energy infrastructure, for example, which Economic Statement actually shows can be done, as the Danish economy is well prepared for the future. Last but not least, as I mentioned in the opening debate a few weeks ago, we have a third proposal to issue green bonds. In short, the proposal is that the state can finance the absolutely necessary investments that we have to make today in the green transition, by issuing green government bonds. We can make this a rather low interest rate, which makes it an attractive model, partly because we can now and here fund the investments we need to make, partly because investors have a sustainable and secure place to put their money. In this way, then, we will turn private funds into the good green measures that we are going to do together. It sounds smart, and it is also so clever that in the Netherlands it has also been done. After all, there was a government, a bourgeois government, and again I look over at the bourgeois part of the Parliament who actually made green bonds for 45 billion. kr. the conversion projects that should be undertaken. It was a success. Considering that the Danish pension funds will spend 350 billion. kr. In the case of green conversion towards 2030, it is obvious to use the bond tank, so that investments are made here. And that is why the Dutch example should really arouse the interest of the government and several other parties, because why do we not make sure that the many Danish pension funds can be invested in this country and in the transition we are about to make, instead of all going abroad? As far as the green area is concerned. After all, the government's proposal bears the title "Bellowship first," and it is quite clear from the content that the government really puts welfare first. Although we would also like to see a change of system here, it is a good thing that the government will devote more money to raising core welfare. Not least, it is positive that 300 million have been earmarked. kr. This is certainly something that is needed in the hospital corridors, because if the staff are to be able to keep up and if our welfare community is to be able to provide the security and service that we are all helping to pay for, then we must move away from the reduction policy. We need to get away from cash thinking, and we need to move on to a policy of prevention and human thinking. We are also very pleased that the government is proposing to strengthen the tax administration by 1.5 billion. kr. in 2020, because I actually believe that most of us have a feeling of injustice and anger when we see one tax scandal after another take the headlines of the newspaper in recent years. So there is praise for taking that task seriously and seriously. At the beginning of my speech, I said that our disappointment was mostly with what was not included in this proposal, but there is one significant exception, and that is the proposal to save free schools. Since the 2007 municipal reform, between 20 and 25 per cent. of the Danish primary schools either closed or merged with larger schools. For more than ten years, we have seen continuous centralisation in this area, which has actually emptied the province of small schools, which are so essential for local communities to have a proper cohesion so that they can maintain and attract families and thus also businesses and labour. For many people in rural areas and small towns, the opportunity to start and run a free school has been crucial for them today to live, live and work outside the major cities. So when the government proposes to lower the coupling rate to 71 per cent, it is not a proposal that just hits a few rich private schools on the contrary, it hits the ordinary families, it hits the small communities, it hits the Association Denmark, and it hits people all over Denmark who have started a free school in response to the politicians having closed their local primary school. I know the government has set aside a pool of 75 million. kr. to remedy in the outermost regions, but that does not solve the problem, because we cannot simply reopen the many schools closed since 2007 for 75 million. kr. And that is why I really want to call on the government to reconsider this proposal, because frankly, I think it is somewhat like a misguided ideological crusade against the free schools, which is completely unnecessary. You can easily strengthen the primary school without having to do so at the expense of the free schools. We think this is a matter of will and priority, and this seems to us to be a necessary priority for coherence throughout the country. Finally, if I am to sum up the message in my speech, we would very much like in the alternative to help the government deliver the change, the transformation and the new course that it has been chosen to deliver. There should be no doubt that we have higher expectations of the government than this is going to happen. And if Denmark is to have the Finance Act that takes us into a new era, then the level of ambition must rise. It is not enough to take out a paper of understanding from the drawer, if you cannot also see those visions becoming reality in the Finance Act. We do not believe that the government can be helped in goals without the help of others, and that is why we are cautiously optimistic and show up and help everything we can, along with the other parties who also show the will to do so. And we look forward to the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171448	There are three inscribed, and the first one is sir. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171456	Thank you. I would like to touch on a subject to which the rapporteur was not so much concerned, but this is the whole discussion which has also been held with the alternative employment rapporteur, Mr President. Torsten Gejl, and it's about the cash benefits ceiling and the integration benefit. Sir. Torsten Gejl has, of course, repeated at many consultations that if those services were not set up, the alternative could not support the government and thus vote in favour of a financial law. Is it still the policy of the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171533	Now, of course, we are not, in fact, a parliamentary basis for the government and therefore a support for the government. We are a constructive party that negotiates everything we can, including in these budget negotiations. We are still completely out of reach in relation to the government programme we presented last year, in which there was a four-year economic plan, also in relation to abolishing the ceiling on cash aid and integration benefits. It is still our policy, which we will, of course, also take to the table in the financial legislation negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171600	Thank you. That was, in fact, a very clear answer. How and how does the alternative view a financial agreement which might be concluded with or without the involvement of the alternative, if that is the case, that it does not have a positive climate effect? I fully understand that it can be difficult to make it up to you. But how important a priority is that? Now, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist spent quite a lot of resources and effort on discussing climate policy in the past too, so how and how does this issue form part of the party's position on overall economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171636	Well, of course it's crucial for us that we deliver on this. That is why, year after year, since we started the Alternative, since we joined the Danish Parliament in 2015, we have actually presented climate plans, presented financial plans for how we can make real action. After all, many people have moved in relation to a reduction target by 2030, and that really only makes many of the proposals we have put forward in the past and which have been grunted of even more urgent. Because if we are going to raise the reduction target of 70%. By 2030, we must take action now. Not in a couple of years, but right now. And that, of course, is also what we travel over and over again, among other things. In relation to the investments that we believe need to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171717	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171720	Thank you. I know that for the alternative, the switch to renewable energy, that is to say, the switch to electricity, is important. So I would like to ask a little whether the alternative is positive about the idea of lowering the electricity tax to the EU-allowed, that is to say, a significant reduction in the electricity tax, and whether we also welcome the complete removal of the tax on electric cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171752	In relation to the last point: yes, there is such a conversion that we have to get rid of fossil cars and bring in the electric cars, and there is a tax exemption part of our plan. Compared with the electricity tax, what it is all about is the green electricity, and not just a general reduction in the electricity tax. What is the problem today is that if you just make a lowering, it runs across all the different ways you've created the energy, that is, the elle. So we're not just going to say a reduction in the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171823	But can the alternative confirm that lowering the electricity tax will have the effect that people will have a greater incentive to move on to electricity than if they do not lower the electricity tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171835	We just want to go much more focusedly to work, so we also do it specifically in relation to where there is a real saving on energy at the same time, i.e. that there is an incentive for both to move on the energy form, but also to use less energy, so you don't just think that you have to turn it up as long as it's electricity, and then it's good, and then you can drive out there. No, we must also look at the energy saving in it, and that is where taxes also help to regulate consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171859	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171906	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would actually like to take this opportunity to get a clear picture of where the alternative is actually in relation to the government's announcement that they will only increase the tax on cigarettes by DKK 10. over 2 years. So, what is the alternative's position on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022171925	I almost get deja-vu for the opening debate, where the Left asked about the same thing I can also see that another Left Member is laughing a little bit and the answer is, of course, that our policy is the same as in the two proposals we presented in the last parliamentary term, which are about raising the cigarette tax considerably more. We believe that a package of cigarettes should cost considerably more than the 50 kroner, like 60 kroner. in one chop, but also like more than that. We still have the same policy as we had before the elections, and I am so glad that the Left has changed its position on this. It was a pity that we did not vote in favour of the alternative proposal when they were in the Chamber earlier, but that we chose to vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022172005	However, the rapporteur said in his speech that the alternative was always constructive and would like to help. In fact, I would like an answer to that question as to whether the Alternative is prepared to make a motion for a resolution for that matter, perhaps also with the Left, even though that means that it is bypassing the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022172027	In the first place, I see this as part of the financial law negotiations that are going on. We are, of course, pushing for this, and I have also heard that the other parties who are in the negotiations now are doing more than what has been seen in the past. But it is so nice; again we see here a policy area where the parties move in a split second immediately. You were foot dragging for four years in government, but now you want to move, and I think that's nice. It is good to see that the ambitions come up, also in terms of creating smoke-free generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022172056	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else wanted a line. I hereby suspend the sitting until 8 a.m. 18.30, when we resume the sitting, and the first speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183009	The sitting shall resume. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183030	Thank you for that, and welcome back from an hour's lunch break. There are certain things happening in Danish politics today. It is an exciting day and I must see if I can top it with a rapporteur's speech here, which is really exciting too. So welcome back from an hour's lunch break, and that gives the citizens a bill of 3.75 million. kr. I should probably also say welcome back from a week's autumn vacation to the members of the Danish Parliament, which will then pay a bill of 630 million. kr. to the citizens. For while the Danish Parliament has been on the sunbed with a drink in hand, many Danes have had to work hard out there, working hard to pay the politicians' bill of 630 million. kr., which just one week of failed immigration costs every week year, year after year. Yes, when we close a financial bill here in probably a month's time, the bill for that period will have hit 3 billion. kr. 3 billion kr. is basically the same as the government has allocated in extra funds to the municipalities and regions. Think about what one could do with the extra money, if we simply put in place the sound and rational principle that any immigration to Denmark should of course benefit Denmark, and it should do economical, it should benefit Denmark culturally, and it should benefit Denmark fairly. When I sat at the budget negotiations in Aarhus Municipality, there was always such a certain explanation that went back; I could almost set my clock after it. Because when I pointed out to the others that in my optics it would be better to use the citizens' tax dollars to increase the norms for the municipalities' places of disability than to spend them on artistic mime traffic assistants, even more municipal journalists and birthdays for buildings, municipal strawberry beds and municipal bike patching, yes, the list of what you could find to spend the citizens' money on is almost inexhaustible, so it always came, the excuse, the explanation: Well that's a completely different box. So there was a massive disclaimer, and it is the same as I am experiencing here in the Folketing. Because when politicians spend 11 billion. kr. It is not possible to spend that money on basic core welfare for the citizens' money on external consultants; when politicians spend 5 billion. kr. It is not possible to spend that money on the administration of some job centres in order to reduce the tax on companies, so that they demand labour; when you spend 16 billion. kr. It is not possible to use the money at the same time to ensure decent conditions for our elderly people in this country; when you spend 11 billion. kr. It is not possible at the same time to allow companies and citizens to keep their money on a financial-aid basis; when you spend 4 billion. kr. It is not possible at the same time to allow citizens to keep their own money on state television and media, so that they can buy the television and television that they want to watch; when you spend 20 billion. kr. In a centralist EU system, money cannot be used at the same time to reduce taxes and taxes on businesses; and, lastly, when spending 33 billion. kr. a year on a deeply failed non-Western immigration, one cannot at the same time spend the money in schools, in kindergartens, in crèches for our children, so that their future is better, and one cannot at the same time lower taxes and taxes on basic things such as electricity, water and heat and a car for the family. So it's connected, that's the way it is. No matter how much you try to explain it away from Parliament, the responsibility falls in one place at the end of the day: in this hall. It is a matter of political priorities, and that is why this is a deeply misguided draft Finance Act, which does nothing to change the fundamental errors. On the contrary, the proposal increases an already excessive public sector, and this is financed by once again punishing citizens and business by forcing them to deliver even more money. It makes it more difficult and more expensive for good family businesses to continue, it makes it more difficult and expensive to hire people on the edge of the labour market, it makes it more difficult and more expensive for people to be in the labour market, and it makes it more difficult and more expensive to run a free school. We cannot support this in any way in the New Citizens' Party, and it will never be a bourgeois policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183613	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183620	Thank you. Welcome to the rapporteur as new rapporteur for a new party. It is always good with new parties who can see things in a slightly different way and I must confess that perhaps I also have a slightly different way of calculating things; I was at least a little lost along the way. At any rate, I would like to admit that the rapporteur's attempt to make the calculation is a little different from what we perhaps had in mind when we talked about updating the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance. That is why I would like to make it a little more simple. Now that the rapporteur and New Citizens are talking about the public sector being significantly smaller, does this also cover the police? After all, we have proposed investing 1.2 billion. kr. I'll be in the police next year. Is this something that can win the support of New Citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183711	I am well aware that the figures I am saying here may come as a surprise to people. It shouldn't, because it's the Folketing in here who decides to spend the money that way, and you do it year after year. In New Citizens we have nothing against spending money on basic core welfare, and we think the police are, and we have nothing against spending more resources on the police. At the same time, of course, we have to look at why it is that the police need more resources, and that is the second part of the equation that the government and this Parliament have not been willing to look at. Because I'd rather have a community where we didn't need so much police, but unfortunately that's not the situation we're in right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183754	Sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183757	Well, I know the Finance Act, and I know how to distribute the money. Although one chooses to look at it in a new way, it is rare that these rapid solutions are feasible unless one considers that one should abolish part of the core welfare in which the rapporteur is talking about investing. For me, core welfare is also health care, education, folk pensions, etc., in other words, some of the posts that are very much in our financial law. But I do sign for the support for investment in the police, and I certainly think that will be one of the things we are going to discuss, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183834	Now I do not know whether social democracy believes that contributions to external consultants are basic core welfare. After all, it has been proposed, at least before you sat with the government, that 3 billion should be saved. kr. in that area. That is what we are saying here in the New Citizens' Party: so much money is being spent in the public sector that is not basic core welfare, so of course we can ensure basic good core welfare while cutting away all the unnecessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183908	The next brief remark is from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022183915	Thank you. I almost felt like we had a situation years ago where we had a prime minister, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, who - I think I think - publicly pulled pages out of Anders Fogh Rasmussen's book. I almost had the feeling that the rapporteur pulled sides from the Finance Act with the remarks made by the rapporteur in his speech here. I would like to ask whether the side dealing with the tax administration and the way we finance our tax administration has also been pulled out and whether the rapporteur does not actually agree that if we do not make sure that there are contributions to tax, and that with this financial law we increase the funding of the tax administration by 1.5 billion. kr., we really get into trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184003	Now you can't use props, I was told by the chairman. Otherwise, I could have stood and ripped pages out of the Finance Act, because it is a fact that year after year the state has been enlarged, but the basic core welfare has not been achieved. The money has been used incorrectly and citizens are being forced to deliver more and more crowns. Unfortunately, when we get to the IRS, I think that in here, the Danish Parliament starts in the wrong place. You start by trying to patch a hole in a bucket instead of looking at what it was that created this hole. When it is difficult for the tax administration to administer the legislation, the responsibility falls on us in this Parliament because a simple tax system has not been created. Last week we actually had to deal with something about this IT system, and it turned out that the tax system was so complex that an IT system would not be able to handle it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184108	Thank you. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184111	Thank you. What I sense from the rapporteur is that the 1.5 billion. The rapporteur does not want to use kr. which we propose should be used to strengthen the tax administration. I also understand that the rapporteur says that we must maintain Danish welfare. But if the money doesn't come in, and if there's no justice in the way people pay taxes, things don't come together. How will the rapporteur and the party enter into any discussion at all if we do not want to help ensure that there is a foundation?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184148	We are indeed involved in any discussion. Now I do not know whether the questioner was in Parliament last week when we were debating these matters. But we must basically consider whether the Folketing is willing to simplify the tax system, remove the top, stop the tax, remove the labour market contribution, remove corporate tax, remove registration tax on cars, have an equal tax system. In this way, it could be made much easier to operate and much better for citizens, so that they can actually find a way of making their tax returns. That is not the case at the present time, and we must take that responsibility for it. If I and New Citizens are to be involved in spending even more money on a tax administration, then we must be sure that it actually solves this problem. I do not know whether the questioner is sure that the funds we are giving out now will solve the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184233	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184238	I am also grateful for the floor and welcome to the New Citizens' rapporteur, who, like me, has been campaigning in East Jutland, and thank you for the dialogue along the way. I have a concern when some offer snatch solutions, and I also miss very concrete proposals from the New Citizens' Party on what should happen instead; instead of just painting up all the problems you see, I miss something concrete, something about who will then contribute more, or how it is going to happen. After all, with the government's proposal for a financial law for 2020, we are proposing a growth in public consumption of 1.3%. New citizens have stated on previous occasions that they are in favour of negative growth in the public sector. Is that still the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184326	Yes, absolutely. In New Citizens, we believe that the state should be slimmed down. Well, you could listen to my speech yourself, what it is we want to spend the money on. We can ensure a much better basic core welfare while, of course, citizens keep more money themselves. It is about political priorities. It is a question of saying that the money we give is directly distributed to the individual places. That is why we have proposed that funds for schools and day care institutions should go directly to day care centres, directly to schools, so that they do not get picked up in these municipalities who choose to spend the money on administrative trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184414	Sir. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184417	Excuse me, but it is my view, as a municipal councillor for 18 years in three different municipalities, that very little is actually spent on administration and quite a lot on citizen-close welfare, to the extent that there are any freedoms at all. But back to my question. I think that what New Citizens are going to propose is very little concrete, and instead it is just a list of what you see as challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184448	Well, you're welcome to go in to read our policy on our website... there's a list of what we're going to do. In other words, if you think about the tax, we will remove the top tax, we will remove the labour market contribution, we will eliminate corporate tax. We believe that there should be a capital tax of 25%. That is what we want to do fiscally. We want to eliminate a large number of charges that affect citizens, for example. on electricity. If you think about what we are going to do in relation to the public sector, I would say that it is simply not right to say that no money is spent on central administration and management. The last government to sit between 2015 and 2019 increased municipal expenditure by 2.3 billion. kr., and out of the 2.3 billion. kr. The cost of central administration in the municipalities was increased by 435 million. kr. So it is simply not true that more money is not spent on central administration and management, because that has been done.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184529	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184532	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for a good speech. That was not all I agreed with, but I thought it was a good speech, because it was clear and political and to understand. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen said both in his speech and in an answer to one of my colleagues that New Civilians are working for minus growth in the public sector. After all, it is quite a distance from the socialist line where we want to invest in the public sector. But it strikes me that it is actually a bit away from, for example, the Left, which, with the welfare promise, has said that the public economy will grow in a way that covers the demographic trait. It makes me wonder whether the President of the Left, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, is New Citizens' Prime Minister's candidate really?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184624	There's such a joke with three men walking into a bar. I do not know if the rapporteur knows it. But that's how I felt when I looked at the previous government. So, in 2015 the Left went to elections on zero growth, Conservatives on minus growth and Liberal Alliance also on minus growth. Then they go into a negotiating room, and vogue, there will be a government basis where there is increased public spending. I mean, it's a wonder how that could happen. And there is no doubt that we are a bourgeois party and we want the state to be slimmed down. Citizens should not give as much money to politicians as they do now, because politicians do not manage them properly. And that, of course, will also be something we will say to the leader of the Left. And that is what we stand for, and we will do so both before an election and after an election. Civil policy must be pursued in Denmark, and it is not enough just to say so. Action must also be taken behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184723	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184726	Where there was a clear speech in the rapporteur's introduction, it became a little less clear here. Because the question to the rapporteur on my part was, of course, whether New Citizens points to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen as Prime Minister's candidate, when, hopefully, we are going back to the ballot box in many years' time. It is the case that one of the questions on which one cannot remain silent is when the Queen asks at some point, and one has to report clearly. So I will try to repeat my question to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184803	If there's anything I'm known for, it's that I'm not talking around, and I'm not going to do that here either. We have three indispensable requirements for any person who wants our support to be Prime Minister. It is that we must have a full asylum freeze, we must show criminal foreigners consistently after the first sentence, and we must demand that foreigners who are here provide for themselves. That is our demand for a prime minister candidate. If sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will say yes to that, but then he will be our Prime Minister's candidate.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184828	Thank you, and there are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. And the next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022184842	Thank you. Then it became the everyday life of our new, socialist government. No more the election campaign's slogan that social democracy wants everything more, faster and better than the VLAK government. Reality has hit the S-government, and reality has a name: Finance Act. Oh, the goddamn Finance Act! Here every government is forced to reveal which of the electoral promises were seriously meant and which, on the other hand, should only obtain votes from people who could be fooled into believing in the usual unfunded outbids of the Social Democratic Party. Three times Social Democracy has won government over the past two decades, all three times by promising voters a policy that Social Democrat politicians knew they had no money for. In 1998 Poul Nyrup Rasmussen promised that he had money for the same pre-retirement wage, but already in the first post-election Finance Act he changed his salary to make it cheaper. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen did not actually have the money for an unchanged pre-retirement salary that he had promised in the election campaign. In the 2011 election campaign, Helle Thorning-Schmidt went to the polls at the Fair Solution programme with so many promises of new expenses and so few contributions to getting the money that according to the Ministry of Finance the plan was underfunded by 39 billion. kr. For this reason, during the next parliamentary term, the Socialist-led government had to drop the electoral pledges of some 39 billion. kr. Now it is the turn of the Mette Frederiksen government to reveal in its Finance Act what it really wants and what the Social Democracy just said in the election campaign to get votes without ambition to deliver on the promised. The most important thing that we in the Liberal Alliance feel is that the choice between a red or a green policy has quite clearly fallen out in favour of the red, with no significant room for the green. The green conversion costs, as does all the welfare promised by the Social Democratic Party, and the billions cannot be spent twice. The government has chosen to spend billions on several public employees instead of spending them on the green transition. There is money in the Finance Act to increase the number of public employees by as much as 1.3 per cent, which is a quite significant expansion of the public sector, especially at a time when private companies are reporting growing problems of providing enough hands in production. By 2020, Danish companies will find it even harder to provide labour because of this financial law, which is very generous with public job postings, so there are fewer hands left for private companies. The green transition must be limited to just 30 million. kr. to extend the tax exemption for electric cars if the electricity is purchased via services from e.g. Clever and E-ON. People who let their car through their own outlet in the carport must continue to pay the world's highest electricity charges without any exemption whatsoever. 30 million kr. is less than 0.03 of the total public expenditure of a Social Democratic government, which told the voters that it was far more green than we bourgeois. So what's missing? First of all, an awareness that the very high electricity tax that we have in Denmark slows down the electrification of Danish society, and electrification is a prerequisite for the green transition. People need to want to, for example. replace their petrol or diesel car with an electric car, and they must be able to see the advantage of scraping their oil boiler and instead installing an electric heat pump, to name but two examples from households. This is not going to happen if consumers in Denmark pay the most in the world for their electricity due to excessive charges. However, the government allocates zero kroner on its financial law to lower the electricity tax • zero kroner. On the roads, the Danes have begun to drive electric cars in line with a larger and more price-conscious selection. In August 2019, 2% was spent. of the sold cars electric cars. That's twice as many as in August the year before. But it could go faster if Denmark did as in Norway and completely abolished the registration tax on electric cars. The government, with its Finance Act, is proposing to do exactly the opposite, namely to increase the levy on electric cars. Electric cars such as: the new and smaller edition from Tesla, Mercedes EQC and Audi e-tron will double the fee in 2020 to make it between DKK 18,000. and 98,000 kroner. More expensive. I would like to admit that those cars are currently being bought by people who pay more than the average for their vehicles. At the same time, however, it is also people who, with their car purchases, are helping to initiate the green conversion of the car park in Denmark. And then the question is: why is it so damn important for the government to be red by taxing these cars harder rather than being green and helping electrification of passenger transport on the way? I heard something else in the election campaign from members of the Social Democratic Parliament. I heard allegations that they were much greener than we blue politicians. I do not think that a single student or student from the many electoral debates in East Jutland educational institutions, in which I attended with Social Democratic MPs and with the Finance Minister, went away with the impression that a social democratic government would increase the taxation of cars that could power from wind turbines and then drive on the roads without polluting. The green transition is a very central example of the fact that social democracy has once again promised much more than our new social democratic government intends to deliver on. I repeat: just 30 million. kr. is what we can see from the Finance Act. This is in stark contrast to the impression that Social Democracy gave to the electorate in the election campaign. The legacy of Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and Helle Thorning-Schmidt does not deny itself. In election campaigns, all tricks apply to the Social Democratic Party. Fortunately, the voters tend to remember it 3-4 years later. In relation to fiscal policy, the government is doing exactly what the Social Democracy promised in the election campaign. We get more taxes, and we get higher taxes. The family-owned companies must stand by when they are to be handed over from the older generation to the younger generation of the family. Then the state will have its share, the Social Democratic Party thundered in the election campaign, and it is now delivering the Finance Act. The Blue Government succeeded in obtaining support for lowering the inheritance tax at generational change from 15%. At 6%, but now the Social Democratic Government wants the tax back to 15%. It is a heavy burden on any family-owned business. Capital must suddenly be pulled out of the company just because the old owners want to retire. What would be wrong with not inheriting treasures at all at the time of generational change? The money will then be in the company where it can be used to hire more employees or to invest in production with new machines or new research. If heirs want to withdraw money from the inherited company for their own private consumption via dividends or wages, they are actually taxed by their income in the same way as all of us and with the same high percentages. But if the money stays in the company, why does the government think it's better that 15%. Of them going to the treasury? Does the Minister of Finance really believe that he can do more good with the money than the companies that have earned it can by continuing to have it available for new jobs and new investments? We in the Liberal Alliance don't think so. We are convinced that the money is doing more good in companies than in the government's Finance Act. Employees with employer-paid telephones are also affected by the government's Finance Act. They had looked forward to their no longer being taxed on the working equipment of the telephone. They were pleased to receive the message that the VLAK government and Dansk Folkeparti had found the money to no longer tax people because they are available by telephone to the employer and the company's customers at the end of the working day. Unfortunately, however, today there is no longer a blue majority in the Folketing, and the Social Democratic Government is not having people with a work phone without having to pay tax on the fact that the phone can also be used to send a text message to a family member or a comrade. What a luxury it must be taxed! Come on, how little shoes can you wear? So little shoes! We in the Liberal Alliance are not impressed by the government's financial bill. The proposal could have been much better if the government were liberal rather than socialist. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022185828	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Jeppe Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022185834	Thank you. The latter is certainly true: if we had had a liberal government, we would probably have had another financial law. And yet, for how thick or thin can it be? I should like to ask the rapporteur. Now we have heard such a moral sermon here from the platform that S promised more in the election campaign than could be delivered afterwards. Perhaps it is because the rapporteur's party has great experience of this kind. The rapporteur also says that voters remember. Yes, it has to be said that LA is at least proof that the voters are doing, because if you look at what results the Liberal Alliance achieved in the last period with a bourgeois majority, then you should have the big magnification rather than find anything. One major ambitious plan has been put forward after another, and this was also the case in the election campaign, namely a 2030 plan, which states that the retirement age must rise by up to one year, that you must remove graduation allowance, etc. I assume it's still the policy of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022185930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022185932	Socialist MPs are really good at rhetoric, so they think that with rhetoric you can convince the voters all sorts of things, because the more you say it, the more fun you say it, and the more sexy you say it, the more the voters think it is. It's sir. Jeppe Bruus is a good example of: rhetoric replacing substance. The Liberal Alliance got through a lot in that government very much. At one point, the government was even criticised by Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the fact that it had far too much influence on the policy of the Liberal Alliance. Also the leader of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, was out to say that the Liberal Alliance filled too much of the government. We got through a lot. We didn't get everything through in the government, and a big deal was made out of what we didn't get through, but that doesn't change the fact that we got through a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190019	However, does the rapporteur not see the comedy of standing up here saying that voters remember and that what was promised before the election campaign was not implemented afterwards? In other words, we have a social democratic government implementing the policy on which we were campaigning against the Liberal Alliance, which, after all, had great difficulties. It is no secret to find its foothold in the last period. And it must also be said that the voters remembered it when we were in an election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190048	Well the Liberal Alliance went back in the election campaign, it shouldn't be a secret, but it wasn't because we didn't get things done; it was then because of all sorts of other things, including that we created too much trouble in the blue block. We know that. Civil voters do not like parties that cause so much trouble internally in their own block. We were punished for this, and we have taken the consequence of that. And our new leader has said that it will not be so with him as leader; and it will not be so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190114	The next question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190118	Thank you. In the case of certain parties, perhaps I can understand this insidious defence of the fact that the housing and gift tax should not go back to the level it was a few years ago, namely 15%. This is true, for example. The Conservative People's Party is in charge of this: the families of countless generations are interwoven, etc. However, I find it incredibly strange that it comes from a liberal party when one considers ideology. If you think of the liberal ancestors, you must think that everyone is your own lucky blacksmith, and a fight with the aristocracy of the 1800s meant that you should not have a front pocket because you happened to be born in a certain family. That is why I have been wondering for a long time that an archipelago is so concerned about this, even when wise men and others say that it is actually to the detriment of socio-economic activity and so on. But it's a small thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190225	I always amuse myself when socialists in the Folketing lecture the Liberal Alliance about what it means to be liberal and that being liberal according to them is the same as being a socialist. Every time it happens, I think it's funny, and it happens a lot, so it's often that I am having a good time about this. I can tell you so much that liberal politics is that once people have paid the tax they have to pay on their income, they have to decide for themselves what they have left. This also applies to what they have saved up throughout their entire working life. And when they choose to put the clogs, or when the clogs set themselves, or how such a thing happens, it is up to people themselves to decide who should have the money afterwards. They have what they have left when they put the clogs, they have to decide for themselves who to have, and the state does not have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190319	No, but does the rapporteur not see the absurdity of basing one's policy on an ideology that was founded as a showdown against excessive concentration of assets, and today the concentration of assets is the most excellent thing, along with, what do I know, the registration fee to be taken up as an archipelago? I just don't understand. But I have another question. Today, while we have had this debate, it has emerged that Denmark actually has the richest population, on average of course, among the EU countries. It's Credit Suisse who's brought in this annual report. Is this not an expression of the fact that we can easily have a welfare society and at the same time be a very, very rich society?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190406	Well, we don't have the highest bnp per. people, but if it is about how big a fortune you have, it is probably the result of some sensible reforms that enable people to save for their own pension so that they are not dependent on the public sector. And that's really, really good. Denmark is in a very large number of areas. It shows the investigations that are being carried out, including a very, very liberal country with a very free economy, a labour market that is not governed by law, good courts, no corruption etc. That is why Denmark is a very liberal country, which, however, has a state with a very high tax burden on top of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190446	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190450	Thank you for a good speech, which I think we will be able to join most of it in. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen said before that one of the reasons why the Liberal Alliance had gone back in the elections, probably had been that the voters did not appreciate a party that caused so much trouble in the bourgeois bloc. There may be something about that analysis. That is why I was a little surprised that I was able to see from the opening debate that, while I was in New York, it was probably about three weeks ago. Ole Birk Olesen made a rather hard attack on my party chairman regarding housing taxes, claiming that Conservatives in the Finance Committee had helped to stamp an increase in housing taxes by approving an act on the municipal agreement between the government and the municipalities. Then I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Ole Birk Olesen can confirm that the Liberal Alliance has voted for identical records for the past seven years. Because I am surprised that we are making so much of something that we ourselves have voted in favour of over the last seven years.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190552	I can confirm that. What was the case over the last four years was that we had a bourgeois government and a bourgeois majority. So that means that we did financial law negotiations afterwards, where we could cancel what happened in the act of the Committee on Finance. That is what happened in the first Finance Act in 2015, and it also happened in the subsequent Finance Laws. So we annulled the decision taken by the Act of the Committee on Finance. That is why we were able to vote for it calmly, confident that we could change it in the Finance Act afterwards. We can't do that anymore. I remember back to 2015, when there was a minor crisis in the Danish Parliament, because the Conservative People's Party would not vote for the act, despite being able to cancel the effects of it in the financial negotiations afterwards. So this is the Conservative People's Party, which has changed politics here. At the time when it could be cancelled in the financial law negotiations, we would not vote in favour of the act, but now that we cannot cancel it in the financial law negotiations, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190650	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190651	That's bullshit. Well, that's quite correct). For in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, the Liberal Alliance has voted for these records, also since Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was chairman of the Finance Committee. You cannot apologize for being in government, because you did not do so in the first few years. It is true that in the last two to three years you can use the excuse that you have been in government. It is weird that we should vote in favour of something and then suddenly it is a disaster for others to vote in favour of it. And the ground debt isn't set out in that act.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190726	It is very easy to understand, I would say to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. We could cancel the increase in the amount of the basic levy, which was adopted through the block grant file in the Committee on Finance. We did so, even when we were not in government, since we were only a support party for the Left Government. We did it by the first Finance Act. What is just weird is why Conservatives did something about voting against in 2015, which could change the resolution in the financial law negotiations, while Conservatives are now voting in favour during a period when nothing can be changed in the financial law negotiations, because it is the reds that make the budget law.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190801	Thank you to the rapporteur. We're gonna go ahead with the questioners, and that's Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190806	Thank you. I tried earlier today to get a closer look at the controversy surrounding the free telephone. After all, the government will remove the sensible tax removal proposed by the previous government. After all, the problem was that it was decided in 2017, it was adopted in 2018, and that it was not implemented from 2019, but only from 2020, when it was known that there would have been a parliamentary election. Could the rapporteur not go into what parties it was that did not immediately think it was a good idea for a LO worker to have a tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190846	Well, it was decided in a debate between the then VLAK government, which consisted of three parties, and then the Danish People's Party. And the Liberal Alliance, of course, fought for this to happen as early as possible, but there was no support in the majority that was in the Folketing then for it to happen as early as 2019. It must also be said that the government can choose to introduce the tax again, even though it has already been abolished. They do, for example. the increase in the taxation of enterprises in the event of a generational shift.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190923	Absolutely. Now it is usually harder to choose to introduce a tax that is completely removed. The same could have been done around the license, one could have completely removed the license instead of having put it under the Finance Act, where one can just turn on some financial buttons and then again increase the grant to Danmarks Radio. However, can the rapporteur confirm that there was in fact a room for manoeuvre that could have been introduced in 2019 if there had been the political will to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022190949	Well, there's room for all sorts of things. In public expenditure of 1,100 billion. kr. Surely it should be a narrow matter to find money for proposals costing 200 million. kr. or 500 million kr. or even 5 billion. kr.; that's a small percentage, compared to how much money you spend in such a finance law. But that requires a certain willingness to change some things, to streamline some places, to stop spending money where it is unnecessary to spend money, and there is just not a very broad majority in the Folketing who have that willingness.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191023	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191027	When I hear sir... Ole Birk Olesen, I really get such associations to the way you thought of taxes from the mid-00s onwards, where you just thought: we can just save a lot of money, and we can just lay down thousands of jobs, it's not going to mean anything at all. For it seems as if the prescription that the Liberal Alliance has for the entire Danish society is almost such a kind of tax • Liberal Alliance will almost make such a kind of tax administration with the bad experiences that were with it • throughout the Danish society. Is there really any lower limit to how far the Liberal Alliance believes public spending should be reduced? Well, what's the target of the Liberal Alliance? How low should public consumption be in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191117	It has to be 10%. lower than today, and we haven't just picked that number out of a vending machine. The then Social Democratic government, under the Helle Thorning-Schmidt Productivity Commission, set up an examination of the large differences in how expensive the municipalities produced their services in different parts of the country, and they could see that if all municipalities were as efficient as the most efficient municipalities, there would be a saving of just over 10% in the area of the elderly and children and the school area. in all three areas. They then concluded that it was likely that it would be possible to save 10% on the whole of public service production, and that is the starting point for us. We do not think that citizens should pay 10%. more than necessary for the service they receive if you can otherwise find a way to manage the public sector well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191208	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191209	I have also read that report, and I do not know whether Mr. Ole Birk Olesen also read the method section of the report. I have hardly ever seen a report with so many reservations about the conclusions reached in relation to the data material used to draw the conclusions. I mean, the thing about putting a big fat line under that number and then saying that you can save as much money as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is simply not what you can read from that report if you read it seriously. And I have to say that the impression that remains for me when you say that you can only save 10% is: then it is just that the Liberal Alliance will make a tax on the whole of Danish society, and we have seen what the consequences have been for our tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191246	Thank you to the questioner. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191248	Scientists always make reservations about the uncertainties that are in what they have done. This applies to the most robust research, which is being done, that there are also reservations. So it's nothing new. And the fact that Mr. Rune Lund draws attention to the fact that in this report too there are reservations, there is no proof that there is anything wrong with that report, because they always do. So no, we don't want a 10% tax on the service being 10%. less or less. We want the same service to be provided 10%. cheaper because it is supplied by more efficient manufacturers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191322	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191325	Thank you. The rapporteur's speech reminds me of something my father said to me many times when I was younger. When I had been in town and didn't want to get up the next day, he said to me, "If you're gonna be a bad guy about the aw't," then you can be a bad guy about the moon. It means something like that if you can join the party, then you can also help clean up after it. It is therefore strange to hear the rapporteur stand here and commend himself to the clouds for lowering the registration fee, which I have not said anything about) when we see that the agreement that lowers the registration fee leaves a huge gap in the state accounts. Because you were ready to join the party and lower the tax, but you were not ready to finance the reduction, and therefore 600 million are missing. kr.: 300 million kr. from the tax and 300 million. kr. from the toll. So is the Liberal Alliance just a badge about the aw't, or is one also a badge about the moon?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191425	I would remind the questioner that there is no direct indictment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191432	I've got a good tip for mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, who is new as rapporteur for the budget, but is not new in the Danish Parliament and therefore ought to know: in relation to the questions that are given to you by his secretariat and that you have to put down in the Chamber, you have to check whether the rapporteur actually says what they have thought the rapporteur would say in the speech. Because it is not true that I have boasted that we have reduced the registration fee. I didn't say a word about it. So it's stupid to say I've said it when I haven't said it. But we've done it over three laps. The last time there was an insistence from the government's support party, the Danish People's Party, that you should have among other things. a toll which affected foreign cars in Denmark. It was the Danish People's Party that insisted on having it as part of the financing element. We didn't think it was very good, but you had to get through with it. That's why it's there. We don't feel any ownership of that; it was something that the Danish People's Party thought was really delicious.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191531	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191532	I have to take responsibility for my own questions. It has nothing to do with what we can get from the secretariat. I noted registration fees, but that can of course be an echo of many other speeches made by the rapporteur in the past. However, that does not change the fact that the rapporteur does not answer the question: is the Liberal Alliance, is the rapporteur ready to take responsibility for finding the money that is now missing because the Liberal Alliance has held a party without paying the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191600	We would like to be invited to further negotiations on the Finance Act. So far we have been to one meeting and we have not received any further invitations. So if that's the case, sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen can tell us that we will now have an invitation to negotiations on the Finance Act and there will sit on an equal footing with Enhedslisten and Radicals etc., then we will come and we will make good proposals on where to find money in the state finances for the actions that we think are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191628	The next question is Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191632	Thank you. I have to say that, after all, things are going well in the kingdom when the rapporteur has to go back to 1998 to find anecdotes to tease the Social Democrats. But I'd like to stick to the Liberal Alliance's plan for 2030. I understand that it is confirmed to the Enhedslisten that there is still a desire for negative growth in the public sector. After all, the Social Democrats have made a proposal here for the Finance Act, namely that we, for example, should. I'd like to have more nurses. There is no doubt that if we get negative growth, it will cost thousands of people in the public sector. How many employees do you think Mr. Ole Birk Olesen we can lose in the public sector so that it is still safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191711	After all, I will have to go back to the last three Social Democratic elections, i.e. the one in 2019, the one in 2011 and the one in 1998, in order to show the pattern that exists every time the Social Democrats win the government power. The pattern is that you promise a lot of things that you don't want to keep when you get to power. In 1998 it was the early retirement and Nyrup, in 2011 it was the well-known many, many benefits from Fair Solution, which was missing 39 billion. kr. to implement, and this time it is among other things. the green conversion, which will receive 30 million. kr. in the Finance Act, and it is completely in the opposite direction to what Social Democracy gave the voters the impression of in the election campaign. I'm gonna have to tell you that. That was the first part of Mr. Anders Kronborg's question, and now I don't actually remember the second part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191809	Time's up, too. Sir. Anders Kronborg has the opportunity to ask a final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191812	Then I would like to help a little, because now I have been back in the hidings and seen what a bourgeois finance minister replied when he calculated the Liberal Alliance's proposal for the 2030 plan. It was that 52,000 jobs would be lost in the public sector, and then I just ask: is that still the policy of the Liberal Alliance, and does Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that it is reasonable that we should move forward to losing sosu assistants and we are going to lose nurses etc. in the public sector? Is that Liberal Alliance policy here in 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191842	I cannot say exactly where it is that you can streamline and thus manage with fewer employees, but it is not necessarily employees who are out to deal with people. It is also the employees who spend half of their day doing paperwork. If they don't, they might be out dealing with people. On the other hand, it is the result of the plan that Mr. Anders Kronborg will also be able to see from the Ministry of Finance's reply that employment in the private sector is correspondingly increasing what employment in the public sector is falling, and even more so, because our plan also contains some structural things regarding taxation and the labour market, which will increase growth significantly in Denmark and create significantly more employment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191927	The next question is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022191931	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, which, of course, was very much about social democratic policy and not so much about the Liberal Alliance. But I have a question. In the election campaign, the Left presented a so-called welfare promise, and one went out and said that one would compensate for the demographic trait, that is, that one would make sure to pay the bill, in relation to the fact that we have more elderly and more children. Fortunately, we have more elderly and more children. We in the Social Democratic Party were a little excited about what it would be like after the elections, but fortunately, at the opening debate we were able to see that Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, as the new President, is sticking to the fact that the Left wants to make the welfare promise. The question then is whether the Liberal Alliance can then see itself in a left-wing bourgeois government in which a welfare promise is put forward, while the Liberal Alliance, on the other hand, stands for minus growth and large savings in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192034	Well, the Liberal Alliance also has in the 2030 plan, as Mr. Anders Kronborg mentioned earlier, allocated money to follow demographic needs when more children and more elderly people arrive. That is one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is that, at the same time, we believe that the public sector can be made more effective. We want to make the public sector more efficient, and we then allocate some of the funds to follow the demographic trend and follow it and recruit more places where there is a need for more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192110	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192111	Thank you. It almost sounded as if the Liberal Alliance would also make a welfare promise. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to be precise. Because what I can look forward to is that the Liberal Alliance will save on the welfare of 50 billion. kr. over the coming years. This means 52,000 fewer employees in the public sector. That means 3,000 fewer sosu assistants, 4,000 fewer nurses, 3,000 fewer educators and 1,000 fewer police officers. Is that a promise of welfare? And again: will the Liberal Alliance really be able to see itself in government with the Left, which will then be a so-called welfare promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192202	Thank you to the questioner. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192204	One cannot conclude from the fact that we want to make the public sector more efficient, for example. This means that there are quite specific places to be 10 per cent. fewer employees. In other words, if there is a demographic development in relation to, for example. The need for health care, which means that more staff are needed there, can easily be accommodated in our policy. After all, we believe that demography should be followed and that the people needed to treat the people who need treatment should be employed, but at the same time the public sector must also be able to make things more effective. The most efficient municipalities can produce the same for less money compared to the least efficient municipalities. The profit that could be gained from the efficiency of all municipalities must then be achieved. You should not just sit back and say that it is okay that some municipalities sloppy with the money and do not learn from the other municipalities that make it better.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192258	The next question is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192303	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your speech. Now I understand that the rapporteur cannot fully answer where it is in the public sector that savings should be made, i.e. which posts disappear and, at the same time, the rapporteur calls for the substance of the Social Democratic Party. Now it is the case that the Liberal Alliance has said on several occasions that it would like to have more private actors out and deliver welfare tasks, so I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Liberal Alliance can then tell us which areas of welfare it is actually desirable to be taken over by these private players?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192336	No, actually not, because the primary tool for getting more private people into the provision of welfare services is that citizens should be given a distinctly free choice ^ as we know it, for example. from our free school scheme, where you get a share of the money that a public school place costs, to a private school place. Today, for example, you can also take care of the elderly. get the money that it costs to get a public home helper to buy a private home helper. After all, it is the choice of the citizens who decide where to replace the public employees with some private employees who provide the service instead. We want to spread the freedom of choice as much as possible, for example. It would also be nice in the area of childcare if there could be any competition to provide the best possible childcare, so that not all of us were dependent on the public institutions, which, as has sometimes been shown in various television documentaries, have some major, major problems, but where people do not have the opportunity to opt out.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192442	Thank you for your answer. I can hear what is being said and, of course, the answer is not entirely surprising to me either. Now it is the case that there have quite specifically been a number of bankruptcies after things have been outsourced to the private sector, and it has left municipalities and, above all, the citizens in some really painful situations. I simply do not think that what has happened has been okay. Well, there has simply not been a readiness. A bankruptcy comes all of a sudden, and it has been a huge problem in many municipalities, and it is a problem for citizens, and I find that very difficult to look at. This does not at all make the Liberal Alliance consider whether an area such as the former Soviet Union should be considered. the elderly area was not to be outsourced anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192522	Well, bankruptcy is part of running a private business sometimes for owners of private companies. In fact, it is also a little good, because we should not have those companies that are not capable of being there. Instead, we need to get the employees to some of the talented companies who can find a way to drive themselves. That is the way the market economy works, and that is why the market economy is superior in many ways to delivering what the citizens want. Because when citizens walk away from those places that cannot, they go bankrupt, and then some other companies can take over.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192600	Thank you to the rapporteur. And that was the series of questions in this round. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line and I welcome Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022192620	Thank you very much, and thank you for the floor. It's been a long night, but I hope you'll hold on a little longer. At Inuit Ataqatigiit we are pleased to participate in the financial law negotiations. That is quite right. In the long term, we also hope that we will have the same equal status as the other parties, including when it comes to conciliation in the Folketing. Today is an historic day for IA in the Folketing, because for the first time we have been involved in the negotiations in the social field, and we are very pleased about that. But it is not equal when we are told that we must sit as observers without further defining what it really means. We will continue to fight for respect and equality for Greenland, not for our sake, but for Greenland. With a new government there will be new priorities and there will also be new working methods, and we welcome the fact that we can continue to participate in the financial law negotiations. Unfortunately, we have also had to remind the new government that our participation in the financial law negotiations should not be limited to the North Atlantic pool. The plot was created by the former bourgeois government and was actually intended for new developments in the Kingdom community, including money for new documentaries and broadcasts about the Kingdom Community, for study trips to young students, both in Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, and for other good initiatives that we from Inuit Ataqatigiits supported. The new government has chosen to increase the pool from 15 million. kr. EUR 20 million; kr. annual. So far, so good. This is very positive, because it is a step in the right direction. However, a North Atlantic pool should not be a straitjacket for the development of operations, a North Atlantic pool should not limit resort funding to new necessary measures in connection with the operation for which the State is responsible in Greenland. So, faced with the challenges that we jointly note there are in Greenland on the state's responsibilities, it is going to be awkward. A clear example of this is the unfair discrimination which continues to take place for the government's employees in Greenland. In Denmark and the Faroe Islands it is the case that the police get one kind of pay, while in Greenland you get less pay. We all agree that the police are carrying out an important and sometimes vital task for all of us. The announcement by the government is that if we want a raise for the Greenland police officers, the money must be taken from the North Atlantic pool. It is simply mixing apples and pears, means of development with means of production, projects with permanent measures. So when we go to negotiations, we agree that we want to take responsibility. We want to be a priority, but we cannot neglect a task that the state has, namely to treat its employees decently and equally, and thus help to use development funds to close a gap in operation. It is simply below the low level. Inuit Ataqatigiit has given priority in finance negotiations to three areas: aid for vulnerable children and young people, equal pay for equal work for police and asylum officers and increased research in Greenland. Firstly, we believe that adult professionals should be better able to coordinate efforts for children exposed to sexual abuse in Greenland. Inuit Ataqatigiit is fighting for children's houses to be established in Greenlandic municipalities, and this will stop vulnerable children and young people being used as throwing balls between Danish and Greenlandic authorities in Greenlandic society. Of course, children subject to abuse must have access to treatment, and children's houses with a one-door principle can ensure both investigation, treatment and video interrogation of children subject to sexual assault. By strengthening early efforts and preventing new abuse, we can break the pattern where one third of all children in Greenland have experienced a sexual assault. Similarly, we also believe that parental competences should be strengthened. The treatment of children in the form of children's homes and the strengthening of parental competences should be part of the 80 million. kr., which the government wants to sell in the social field in Greenland. The report, which the police in Greenland have written about the situation of sexual crimes in Tasiilaq, has contributed with new and necessary knowledge. It has created a much-needed debate, including at home in Greenland, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we are fighting in the financial law negotiations to ensure that the next step is that funds are set aside for a nationwide mapping. It is nice that we now know the extent of the problems in Tasiilaq, but what about the rest of the country? No matter how violent the situation in Tasiilaq sounds, it is only a drop in the ocean. The remaining 73 of the sexual crimes against children and young people in Greenland take place outside Tasiilaq, and we believe that the report in Tasiilaq should be nationwide, so that we can help identify social exclusion zones and thus target our efforts where it can make the greatest and most important difference. We would also like to help ensure equal pay for equal work for police officers. Training, recruitment and retention of residents of the police are important, including: Because of the cultural and linguistic understanding that people can contribute. The number of police officers called in from Denmark has increased by more than 40%. Since 2016, and we have a massive recruitment and retention challenge with the police. Unfortunately, in the asylums, things look even worse. Sixty-three percent. We hear stories about asylum officers who have to lock themselves up in their office for fear of the inmates. And we must note that the demands made on the staff to take care of the inmates in the asylums have run from the competences that we guarantee to the people who look after us all. Increased training, further training and retention of asylum officers are a necessity if we do not see a collapse of criminal services. However, despite massive investment in the physical environment of the new facility in Nuuk, we have to recognise that there are departments which are being shut down due to lack of staff. Staff officers themselves point out that wage levels are the biggest challenge and report that, as state employees, they have such poor conditions that public services, such as housing insurance, are a necessity for the economy to be linked, and it is shameful that we treat government employees so badly. The aim must be to get more resident trained officers both from the police and from the institutions, but here the massive wage gap is still an obstacle which we hope we in the Folketing can find a good solution to. In any case, we would like to help ensure this, and we hope that there is a willingness to do so. Outside the world we have to note that Greenland has been on the map for the past few years, and today there is a larger American delegation that has gone to Greenland. American presence in Greenland can become a game changer, but it also depends on how we jointly manage the relationship between Greenland, Denmark and the United States. It is also about creating a more equal and more meaningful relationship within the Kingdom community. We have a fight for a peaceful Arctic, the rights of indigenous peoples and a modern society far north, which should be a model for other Arctic nations. That must be what we should fight for together. In that fight, it's important to stand together. It is important that Denmark is aware of its responsibility, but it is equally important that Greenland is aware of its responsibility. More research, more local knowledge and a more informed decision-making basis are a prerequisite for much of this, and therefore we have pointed to increased research in the Arctic which is to take place in Greenland. With these words, we thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193522	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a questioner who has asked for a short remark • there are a few. Sir. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193529	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for three very fine priorities and for engaging so well in the negotiations here with some very good focus areas. In relation to the area of vulnerable children, I think everyone can agree that it is a good thing that it is number one in the order of priority. After all, this is an area where I believe that Greenland and Denmark can make a great deal of money out of strengthened cooperation. But unfortunately it is also an area in which Greenland has sometimes had a certain anxiety about Danish support • not that we can necessarily do things better, but we have everything else just some more resources in Denmark. What can the rapporteur do to get his party colleagues in Greenland to open up to increased Danish aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193626	Thank you very much for the question. It is the case that we had a discussion where I sat with my fellow party members in Nuuk and discussed it here and where the mood actually turned at a meeting. I can clearly remember that, and there was actually a position that we would really like to ask for help from Denmark, because we also have to note that although we are trying to solve it and even if many good things are being started in Greenland, we have not been able to solve it sufficiently. So it was essentially IA that helped push, and we got a majority to ask for help from Denmark. So we have actually managed to do that, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193703	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193705	Fantastic. It's great to hear exactly the kind of feedback like that. I hope that we can then use it in other areas, such as agriculture. research, where there is also a huge mutual benefit in working together. So I'm glad it's on the list too. Then I hope we can continue in a positive spirit. We also see this in relation to the development of airports, etc. I think there is a great deal that we can benefit from working together on.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193732	Thank you. I see it as a golden opportunity in the area of children and young people. Therefore, it is also important that we do not allow this opportunity to really take care of this. At the same time, I also think it is important for Greenland to take greater responsibility. That was also one of the points I made in my speech. Greenland should not stand with the hat in its hand forever. It is also really important that some of the things are lifted in Greenland, so that we do not find ourselves in that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193800	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193804	Thank you very much for your speech. It is also a subject that is close to us. And that's also how we met and got to know each other in Greenland. It is also a very important subject for me personally, because that is one of the reasons why I came into politics at all. I would like to ask about the proposals on children's houses, because I also hear something about preventing one from becoming a throwing ball between the authorities, the Danish and Greenlandic authorities. Here I am a little worried about what you want to do with this, because we also have cities where only 1,000 people live, and who will be working in these children's houses? Will they also be a kind of throwing ball between the Danish and Greenlandic authorities, or what is the concrete idea that this will be achieved?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022193856	In fact, when IA was in government, a children's house was set up, which was subsequently decommissioned when a new government came into being. However, it is such a one-door principle in which both the healthcare system, the judiciary and the police and all sorts of other authorities come to the place, so that the child should only go in one place, instead of the child having to go four or five different places to get help. So it makes a great deal of sense to bring together the competences that are today divided. Well, it's a grey area when both Danish authorities and Greenlandic authorities are responsible for this and have contacts with these children. That's where I think you have to gather your strength in one place. And we're not really talking about a huge house, but about having a place where you can facilitate this collaboration more. Then I would say that in relation to the municipalities we know what it looks like in Greenland, and if each municipality had a children's house, you could have satelis, you could have travel teams, so you had the opportunity to strengthen the treatment for the children locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194001	Thank you very much. That is what I am wondering, namely whether it is the case if you have these children's houses, that it is the individual cities that will be responsible for the facilitation and the necessary skilled labour. It is also a clarification that we will have to have, also with the Danish Parliament, if that is what we want to do from Greenland. Another question is whether we have talked about this with the various municipalities and the Greenlandic Government. Because there are also a great many initiatives being undertaken within the municipalities, and I would like to know whether there will be support from the individual municipalities about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194041	Thank you very much. We have five municipalities in Greenland, and I think that each municipality should at least have the opportunity to have a children's house. And then you can choose how to make sure you have these satellites or travel teams, depending on the need. There is a recognition that we in Greenland are not only one large island, we are also 80 small islands, because each village may have different needs • in some places there is more need than others. We have talked to the municipalities, and many of the municipalities have also reported back positively on this, and I am going to Greenland tomorrow and meet with Naalaksuisut about the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194114	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194117	Thanks for the speech. What I particularly noticed is that the rapporteur mentioned that the retention of asylum officers is a really, really great challenge. After all, we know it in relation to prison officers in the Department of Police at home, but it sounds like there are really some problems and challenges that are worth keeping an eye on. We must see where we may also be able to contribute from the Danish side. I am also thinking here of the unfair discrimination in pay in relation to asylum officers. Can the rapporteur explain this a little more and tell us a little more about what it will mean for the possibility of recruiting enough staff if you receive more reasonable wages or simply receive the same salary as you get in Denmark, so that there is no unfair discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194213	Thank you very much. After all, the state pays both for the training of police officers and for the asylum officers in Greenland. We just see that too many people choose to go elsewhere when they get this education and spend a few years with the police. So there is a need to ensure equality. Because I really think that the password here is equal. Well, you get into the same patrol car... that example I have used many times in here... and do the same work, but the person from Greenland gets less in order to actually do more. So there's a bias that you have to look at. That is, in fact, where we believe that there is a need to look at it. With relatively little grip, you'll be able to do it, even with money from this North Atlantic pool, if that's the only solution that can be. It is only right that we should ensure a greater equality in pay terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194306	That is the only reasonable thing to do, you might say. Does the rapporteur have any idea exactly what needs to be done, where funding should come from, and what would be fair to have agreed during this parliamentary period and in what context it would be natural to take it up? I am very interested to hear that from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194332	Thank you very much. Specifically, we are pointing to 2.2 million. kr. a year to the police so that you can make it more equal. It is the working time agreement that lies and for which no funding has been found, but for which there is support, I understand, both at the National Police Department, but also at the Police Commissioner in Greenland. In the field of asylum, the figure is about 4 million. kr. Every year to secure this compensation supplement. It is not because we have to interfere in collective bargaining. We can only see that this also has a political significance. So we want to help find a political solution rather than put this in this jar, which unfortunately has come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194412	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022194442	Thank you for the floor. In the Kingdom Community, we are going through an exciting time because, in my opinion, we are heading towards a genuinely equal community, and it is therefore very important that we give priority to trust between ourselves. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance and the Government, first of all, for inviting us to take part in the financial law negotiations, as it has not always been a matter of course that the North Atlantic mandates were convened. I hope that cooperation will continue in this way in the future. Furthermore, as observers, we also took part early this morning in discussions on the implementation of the reserve for social, health and labour market measures. Because although we were observers, we were treated equally. We were heard, and we were listened to. And I think that is also a step in the right direction, because that is something that restores confidence. So, as long as we have this constellation with the two mandates from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, let us continue to develop that trust and equality. In the Government's priority statement for the implementation of the reserve, funds have been set aside for an extraordinary, much needed handout from the Ministry of Social Affairs for the benefit of vulnerable children in Greenland. Because it is important that, under a genuinely equal Community, we can support each other if needed. I know that the same hand-out will take place from Greenland in the future, when Denmark needs it one day, because we are rebuilding a genuinely equal cooperation. This is the beginning of a new era, and I know that we are writing history for the benefit of Greenland and Denmark. I have thus gained the understanding of the meeting this morning that some individual parties are sceptical about the fact that the funding for vulnerable children in Greenland has been found through the reserve pool. In Siumut we can understand the concerns of the Danish parties, but I also think it is important to bear in mind that the funds from the reserve pool go to vulnerable Danish citizens and whether you live in the north or south should not be a problem. I would like to stress that the 80 million. kr. As a clear expression of Denmark's goodwill and desire for a real reconstruction of trust and equal cooperation, something that we in Siumut think is very important. Therefore, Siumut with open arms will say that if the parties here in the Danish Parliament are ready, that if there is a majority for it, then we would like to find the money from somewhere else with you, but here it is just very important that the money should But during the debate on Finance Law it is also incredibly important for me to talk about Danish responsibilities, that is, areas for which Denmark has full responsibility. For Denmark has still lost responsibility for 36 areas in Greenland • responsibilities, which unfortunately have often been forgotten and laid aside, because as only two parliamentary mandates from Greenland we sometimes sit and do not fill much in the debate. The emergency aid, security, police, justice area, these are areas where Denmark has full responsibility, and unfortunately we are facing great challenges here. In Greenland, a request for downgrading of the police area has been announced. A downgrading is called such fine modernisation, and it must therefore be stated that I agree with modernisation as long as it does not turn into that downgrading. As far as I am concerned, this is about maritime preparedness. It's about the Sisakkutter, it's about security, security and human life. In the maritime area, three out of the four Sisak preparedness cutters responsible for rescue operations and mapping the harsh Greenlandic marine environment will now be replaced with small fast boats. And although it all sounds very good and there is a desire for a readiness to sail faster, it is just not so if it will end up costing human lives. For you see, the small boats will not be able to cope with the unforgivable harsh Arctic marine environment, and many of these would have to be dragged ashore during storms and storms, where people need rescue. For the Sisakkutter may not be quite as fast, but they are strong enough to come to the rescue, whether there are icy waters or storms. And they're strong enough to pull their own weight, even if they had to pull a boat out of the sea. Everyone here in the Danish Parliament may also remember the sinking of his Hedtoft on Cape Farewell in South Greenland, which occurred during a winter sailing in January 1959. Before his maiden voyage, the Hedtoft ship was presented as a wondership that could not sink, i.e. Greenland's Titanic, if you like, but it was unfortunately only after the accident that it was decided to acquire the cutters that, like the Sisakkutters, could sail regardless of storms and icy waters, and they could have saved the 95 people on board. Among the 95 people on board were: Greenlandic MP Augo Lynge. Augo Lynge was among the people who had an in-depth knowledge of winter sailing to and from Greenland, and he had warned against the winter sailing, but the MP was not listened to. And now I warn 60 years after the Hedtoft ship sank from downgrading maritime safety in Greenland. And I hope that this time you will listen before this is an important priority, because yes, modernisation is good, but modernisation of maritime preparedness must never become a downgrade. As I also mentioned in my opening speech, I have noticed that more police in Denmark are now a hot political wish, and that is very good, but I, like the other Greenlandic MP, have to mention the same as our predecessors, many other Greenlandic parliamentary politicians, have done and fought for decades for the need for equality between the Greenlandic and Danish police officers, in the prisons and in the asylums. We no longer want to be discriminated against, because no matter where you come from, you as a Danish citizen must have the same pay conditions for the same work. There are, for example: a Greenlandic policeman coming from Sisimiut and a Danish policeman coming from Esbjerg. Both policemen were of the same age, and they both decided to study at the police school in Copenhagen. They were finished at the same time, and they both went to Greenland to work side by side. But yet he from Denmark, that is him from Esbjerg, received a higher salary than he who came from Sisimiut it was, even though they worked side by side, and although the Greenlandic had to train the Danish in the conditions in Greenland and translate a part of the language. Inequality in this area creates great distrust of Denmark, and I would like it not to be mentioned again here from the platform, but I will continue to mention wage discrimination until it is abolished. I hope that a solution will soon be found to the problem, because our state employees cannot be served by this through life. I should also like to thank Mr Siumut for his excellent discussions. We look forward to continuing to debate. It is important that we give priority to security and security in and around Greenland, that we help the weakest citizens and that we give a boost to combat inequality in the judiciary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a couple of questioners. The first is sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195307	Thanks for a nice speech. The Kingdom community meets an exciting time, says the speaker. I myself come from a town that has a very large residential area named after Greenland. Unfortunately, I have the impression that Danish children and Greenlandic children were previously in much greater harmony and dialogue with each other, among others. as pen pals, through exchange, through town twinning, etc. After all, in the context of the reform of the primary school in 2019, it was also wanted to strengthen that work. In 2018, extra money was actually chosen. Unfortunately, my impression is that we have not really moved on. I would like to hear the rapporteur's assessment of whether the work should be given a further boost, whether it has moved forward, and whether the cultural meeting between Danish children and Greenlandic children can be strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195402	Thank you. It is so that when you as a Greenlander come to Denmark, you have much more knowledge about the Danish conditions, the Danish language, the Danish food. We are taught from childhood, but unfortunately it is not the other way. I believe that the most important focus, if we are to strengthen it, is knowledge of cultural differences. We must have equal knowledge of each other if we really want to have equal relations between the individual as well, and that will be my solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195442	Thank you, rapporteur. I am confirmed by the fact that the work we are actually talking about in the Committee on Children's and Education, namely to strengthen the dialogue and also to further focus on better cooperation among Danish children and Greenlandic children, is worth continuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195506	Yeah, I think it's worth working for. I think it's really important. No matter which country or culture you come from, you can easily learn a lot from each other. As people who come with different backgrounds, we can always learn a lot from each other, and if it can be strengthened, it should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195526	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195529	Thank you from here, too, and welcome to the debate on finance to the rapporteur. I was pleased with what the rapporteur had to say about the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland in the effort for vulnerable children, but I was a little incomprehensible about the criticism of Danish efforts, especially at sea. I would say that with the new Arctic Command in Nuuk and with the increased focus we have, not least at sea, but also in the air, there has been overall talk of an upgrade. So to understand the rapporteur correctly: does the rapporteur really believe that the support given by Denmark, not least in relation to SAR operations etc., has been too downward and not too upward?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195613	I do not think that is good enough, and that is what I am pointing out, precisely because, with regard to SARs, even if you have put Sisak alert to the police organization, you will fire the qualified people who also participate in rescue operations and do mapping, which is also delayed by several years, and you will also remove some of the cutters to replace them with less boats and with fewer people. That is where I think there will be a downgrade in the safety of rescue operations. As far as these military ships are concerned, they cannot do the same rescues either, because they can only sail the few months a year where the weather is best, precisely because they cannot sail through icy waters either, and that worries me.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195709	Thank you. What I heard the rapporteur say before was that Danish aid was too downward and not too upward, and I would therefore like to stress very strongly that I believe that Danish aid has been too upward. Then it can always be discussed whether we can do better in one way or another, not least in cooperation with the local Greenland authorities, but I think it is wrong to say that the total Danish aid over recent years has been down.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195735	For me, it is just important to talk about Sisak's preparedness, because right in that area a downgrade is being made, and that is simply not good enough, because it can cost human lives. I have talked to many of the Sisak people, and just the other day they said that they had had to pull out of the sea the same type of boat that they now want to replace the Sisak boats, even though it was relatively good weather, because they simply cannot cope with the very dangerous Greenland waters. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195803	Thank you to the rapporteur. One more questioner just came in. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195812	Thank you very much. Thank you for your speech, too. If you look at the figures, you can at least see that the efforts made in the Danish Parliament have greatly increased over the last few years. During the period I have been in Parliament, we have been involved in securing results for 3 billion. kr. for the benefit of Greenland, where in the previous parliamentary term it was approx. 200 million kr. So it is at least black and white, you can see that the effort has been turned up. When it comes to Sisak, it can be said that it is certainly an internal desire of the police to have some boats, including the Tasiilaq police, which today do not have a response. So this is not something the police themselves have sat down and said is what they want. This is something that Tasiilaq has said is the kind of boats they want. If there is a desire to have larger boats, some other boats, then I am, in fact, open to having a dialogue on it and taking it to some financial law negotiations, but I would like to hear a comment from the rapporteur on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022195920	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I am a little provoked because we continue to mention the 3 billion. kr. But if you look at those calculations, you also know that 2 billion. kr. of them are airports. We also know that the airports are something that has been financed because of Naalakkersuisut and because of Kim Kielsen's desire for the airports that are now being built. Having said that, I would like to say with regard to Sisak that it is the Commissioner's wish, and it has been said by the police in its entirety. But we have forgotten to listen to the workers who are actually involved in the rescue operations, and there is a great deal of protest from them. You'll hear a lot more about it later, because there's going to be a movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200004	In relation to the efforts made here in the Danish Parliament, I certainly do not think we should belittle the things that have happened over the last few years. We can still see that a large number of new measures have been taken. Have we achieved our goal? No. But at least a great deal has been achieved, including in the area of justice and in all sorts of other areas. So I certainly think it is important to recognise the efforts that not only the Greenlandic members of parliament, but, as such, the whole parliament has done over the last few years. I don't think that's so much about party politics. But perhaps it is really about upgrading the effort that is being made by Greenland in relation to putting Greenland on the agenda here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200044	If you talk about putting Greenland on the agenda, you can also say that the Arctic debate has helped a great deal. Trump has helped a lot. That must also be acknowledged. However, it does not make it any better that we still have large areas that need to be improved. Savings are being made. A section 37 has been changed and a clear answer has been given. I certainly do not want to deny that, because that is not something that should be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200116	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then all the questions have been answered this time, and that is why we must now welcome the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022200128	Thank you for that and also thanks to the Danish Parliament for a long but, I think, also good day when we have had the opportunity to debate the government's proposals for next year's Finance Act. In many ways it must have gone as one might have imagined. On the red side it has been said that the government spends too little money, and on the blue side it has been said that we spend too many. Not surprisingly, the government thinks that the proposal we have made actually hits the balance very well; that, while the economy is under control, we have done what the Social Democratic Party chose to do, namely put welfare first, that we rely on security and that, at the same time, we also set a very clear green direction. It has also been a good experience to listen to the various rapporteurs. I should like to begin by thanking both Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and Mr Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Rune Lund, because as the parliamentary basis of the government and also as co-authors of the understanding paper, which is of course an important part of the work going on in here, is involved in some very constructive discussions on how we can make a good Finance Act for Denmark. I also thank you for the incredibly many good ideas and also for the many ambitions you are showing and believe me, even though we in the government think that we have put forward a very sensible financial legislative proposal, we are certainly prepared for it to be even better, and I hope we can do that together. This applies both to the welfare of the people, to the greens, and it applies in general to the direction in which many of us jointly asked for a mandate from the Danes a short time ago. So I am very optimistic about the negotiations that lie ahead, although I also take down entirely those areas where there are criticisms, those where there are disagreements and those where we look at things differently at all. However, we will have the opportunity to go deeper into the negotiations which are now taking off in earnest. I would also like to say to the rapporteur for the alternative, Mr President. Rasmus Nordqvist: Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Thank you for your positive input, and thank you for inviting us to do so in relation to the negotiations that are taking place. After all, it is no secret that the alternative has chosen itself, that you will not be part of the understanding paper and not part of the parliamentary basis of the government. But that does not mean that we cannot cooperate very well with each other, and I certainly hope and believe in that. I also hear, not least in the green area, a very strong and valuable message from the Alternative, in which we would like to do even more than what the government is proposing. Then I also had to understand that the rapporteur for the alternative would like to put on a green cape. I choose to see this as an expression of our common green ambitions and not as a harsh judgment of my abilities in men's ways, even though the latter would probably be deserved, and although I know that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has far greater abilities in this direction than I do. But enough about the green cape. If you look into the blue block, there have also been colors to find in the comments there. The rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen stood here on the platform and said he has a black belt in process. I guess that's true. Evil tongues might then add that in today's speech it was perhaps more black talk, because one did not really have so much more than criticism with oneself. Because I have to say that the great party that wants the Prime Minister's office has not chosen to put forward a draft budget, not even some lines of reference have been put forward in writing. On the whole, looking beyond the blue block, I believe that none of the parties have yet presented their draft budget. I look forward to getting on the ground, because this will lead to a better debate. It will also give some clearer lines of what the options are in Danish politics, but it is of course up to each party to decide what to say to the Danes and what to have at heart at all. But the choice of colour also continued at Dansk Folkeparti, where Mr. René Christensen was out in his critical mood and said that it was almost a fox-red bill of finance. I don't think so, but I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. René Christensen, that even though it was a bit of an approach, and although it was almost necessary to read it between the lines where there could be praise to the government, I very much hope that in the coming months and years we can have a continued very good collaboration with the Danish People's Party. We have had that when we were in opposition, and we certainly hope to have it in government as well. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen was a breath of fresh air. Whether you agree or disagree, it is always nice with someone who makes a very clear voice and says what they agree with and what they disagree with, and I think we have to say that we are quite far apart from each other in this financial law, but that is why we can respect each other. I also believe that, in many other contexts over the next few years, we will hopefully be able to achieve good cooperation between the government and the new citizens. I think that would be a very good thing, and I think that would also be something that both the government and the new citizens can enjoy. At Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance was also pure words for the money. It was almost a sulfur speech that was made about everything that was wrong with social democracy and how incredibly unfortunate it was that the voters had elected us as a government. That is a fair point of view, and I do not think there was much that we could agree on in what was said by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Ole Birk Olesen's side. Yet there was one thing that I noticed and that I thought was an important message, and that was when Mr. Ole Birk Olesen said the money can only be used once. That's right, and it's actually one of the things we're going to discuss in this Parliament hall: what's the money for? Well, I can tell Mr. Knox... Ole Birk Olesen, whose hot dream continues to be big tax cuts, is not what is at the top of this government's agenda. With us it is welfare first, it is security first, it is a green direction first, and there we just have a completely different approach to politics. In other words, it has been a bit sucky to listen to many of the speeches that have been from the blue side. It seems like you have to find your legs, and you have to find the jahat. But when you have done so, I hope that you will get there in the work clothes and that we can do things together, and I think that you can actually be inspired by Mr Beazley. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party. I listened a lot to the speech, and it was certainly not because it was a disgrace of the government there were many places where we disagreed but what I really liked about Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's speech was that he among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: With that I allow myself to believe, not that sir. Rasmus Jarlov and the Conservative People's Party have suddenly become our parliamentary basis, but that there is a real will to cooperate in producing results for Denmark. No matter who has the government's responsibility... whether it's red or blue... it's good for Denmark, if the government's got things under control and can settle, and that's a message that for me bears witness to format, and that the Conservative People's Party intends to be civil voices working, and I would like to thank you for that. For Denmark needs broad cooperation across the middle, and that applies whether it is a red or a blue government. I would also like to thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam for their commitment, not only on the platform here today, but also in relation to the negotiations that are going on in relation to the Finance Act. It is important that we have the North Atlantic voice clearly resounding, not only from Greenland but also from the Faroe Islands, and all four North Atlantic MPs have engaged, come up with ideas, visions and help shape the work we are doing now. That is why, of course, there is cooperation in the context of a financial law and what is happening, but there is also a period of government ahead where we will work closely together in many contexts, and I would just like to say on behalf of the government that we look very much forward to this cooperation: an equal, respectful cooperation, where we can agree or disagree, but where we cooperate closely, and I think we can. On 5 June the government was given a clear mandate by the Danes, a mandate to set a new direction for Denmark, where we strengthen our common welfare and where we make Denmark a green power again. The government has set about making that mandate a reality. We know that we cannot do everything at once, and we are very honest that there is a great deal that we would like to deliver, and we cannot put everything in place in the first Finance Act. However, we can take decisive first step, and we have done so with our draft Finance Bill... First, social security, trust and a green future, and the new direction is important. For even though in many ways it is going well in Denmark, it is also clear that our welfare societies are tense in several places too hard for. Those who look after our children, our elderly and our sick are running too fast; in the field of education, a great deal has been saved, which puts pressure on education in our outlying areas; and when it comes to our climate and environment, the green transition has gone too slowly. These are the challenges we are taking the first steps to address with our draft Finance Act. Firstly, we ensure public welfare, in which we ensure that the money goes with it when there are more children and older people in the coming years, and that is important. For just as nice it is that there will be more children and older people in the years to come, it is equally important that we ensure that the money goes along so that it can be cared for, the care and opportunities that our children and the elderly deserve. Secondly, we will have confidence in the Danes' everyday lives and trust in the authorities. Here the police and the IRS are central institutions in our society. Thirdly, we want to set a new green direction. We simply need a greener Denmark. Specifically, this means that we will strengthen welfare and education by 5.4 billion. kr., when we put things on the table with our finance laws in the context of municipal and regional agreements, we set aside 2.9 billion. kr. to our police and tax services, and that we prioritise more than 2 billion. kr. to a new green direction. That is not to say that we solve all the problems in our welfare society with a fingertips, because we do not. But we are taking important steps in the right direction. In addition, we have also set aside a negotiating pool of more than 2 billion. kr., which we can use for good things in relation to our welfare, in relation to the green, in relation to education, in relation to culture, and what may now be a desire among the parties with which we must also make an agreement. For, unlike other governments, we have just set aside all the money for what they just thought was the most important, in advance, chosen to do something else. We have chosen to raise our hand and say that it might well be that there were some good ideas, including those of some parties other than the government, and I must promise you that you have accepted that hand. It's crawling in with good ideas, and that's good. However, it is also clear that at some point we have to look each other in the eye and say that the box must also vote, and although I, as Minister of Finance, would very much like to do everything I can to enable us to take further steps, there must be balance, and I do not have a money tree standing outside the Ministry of Finance, which I can shake every time there is a good idea, and it is essential that the priorities are kept within a responsible financial framework. I must also say very clearly that the task will not be made easier by the fact that the previous government left the bills and unsolved tasks for 3.5 billion. kr., for a healthy economy is the prerequisite for us to achieve our ambitions for Denmark, and it is crucial that the Danish economy in its initial position is strong if bad times should come. The good news is that Danish economy is generally robust. Expectations for the future are fundamentally positive. We expect good growth, although the pace is slightly more subdued compared to previous years. It is also sensible in the labour market. More are now in employment than ever before, and unemployment is low. Specifically, approx. 39,000 more in employment this year and 26,000 next year, and that is all positive. We jointly have a responsibility for this, and we have jointly helped to create opportunities for this Parliament together with the rest of Danish society, not least our business community. But I also believe that everyone can see that there are dark clouds on the horizon. Recently, bad news about global economy has filled the news picture abundantly, and a small open economy like the Danish economy will be affected if global growth and trade go down in gear. It is not least brexit that we are aware of, and here it will be a particularly hard brexit that will hit Denmark. This can have an impact on the Danish economy, even if we prepare as well as possible. However, the ongoing trade dispute between the United States and China can also affect Denmark if no agreement is reached on an agreement between the two countries. The same applies to tensions between the United States and the European Union. Last Friday I had the opportunity to turn this over with the head of President Trump's economic advisory panel, Larry Kudlow, in the White House, and I made it clear in this context that if you are concerned about declining economic growth in the United States, new barriers to trade are the wrong way to go. The last European, American and also Danish economies need is a trade war between the EU and the United States. Finally, the current decline in growth in Germany may also prove to be more long-term than we have previously thought, and, if so, it will of course also affect Denmark. It is therefore important that, while we welcome what is going well, we also pay attention to what can go wrong and that we, as a small country with an open economy, can be vulnerable. This requires a sensible and responsible economic policy, and the government does so. When we talk about welfare, we have strengthened it with the agreements with the municipalities and the regions, and now also with the financial bill. In this respect, I would like to recognise the rapporteurs, including in the blue block, among others. from the Danish People's Party, which, although one disagreed with many things in what the government has put forward and now I am not going to overcite what Mr. René Christensen said that it is a sensible agreement that has been made with the municipalities and regions. I am very much in agreement with that. What has been crucially important for the government was to say that when there are more children and older people, which is nice, the money must keep up. For what has been experienced in the municipality after the municipality and in the regions is that the money is not so that you have had to save more and more and run faster and faster. We simply have to do something about this. Does the municipal and regional agreements mean that all the problems are gone in our municipalities and regions? No, they do not, but they are a major step in the right direction, and it is a step that must be followed by more when we make agreements in the coming years. Overall, we are strengthening welfare by 5.4 billion. kr. next year, and in addition to the part we have made in the regional agreement, we will also raise health by 300 million. kr. next year and then more than 600 million. kr. annual. This makes it possible to hire 1,000 more nurses from 2021. This is very important, because we really need more health professionals, including more nurses. We also place money, approx. 200 million kr. in 2020, focusing on social interventions, and we cancel the re-priority contribution to the educational institutions by adding approx. 700 million kr. in 2020. We set off approx. 170 million kr. to an annual quality pool on vocational training. Overall, we are really going in here and setting priorities for the benefit of our welfare society, for the benefit of our young people, for the benefit of our business community. In addition to this, there is the negotiating reserve, as we have done, among other things. must look at welfare, minimum standards, education, the green and culture. We have talked a lot about education today, and some have said: Well, does what the government has brought here really mean so much for Danish business? Is it not a financial law that is unfavorable to Danish industry? And there is my answer that some of what Danish industry needs most is well-trained labour. So when the previous government, year after year with the re-priority contribution, has cut our education across the board, it has also meant that our education has been weakened year after year to the detriment of individual young people, but also to the detriment of Danish industry. We simply think this is wrong and unwise. The government wants a strong Danish business community, where together we ensure well-trained labour, because very well-trained labour is one of the most important foundations for a competitive business community. Therefore, the government cancels the re-priority contribution to the educational institutions, and this means that the educational institutions are generally freed from savings of approx. 6.6 billion kr. over the next four years. That's a lot of money. At the same time, we continue the quality pool of approx. 170 million kr. annual vocational training. This is of great importance to our business community. With the financial bill for 2020, we also help to ensure security of the Danes' everyday lives and trust in the authorities. That is why we are allocating 1.2 billion. kr. to the police in 2020. That is absolutely necessary, because some of what has been left to the government is that not enough money has actually been set aside for the police next year. It's called in finance jargon a cliff of approx. 1 billion kr. We've found the billion dollars and filled up with it, and we're putting 200 million. kr. In addition, we will be able to continue a series of multi-year agreement initiatives to ensure that the police school in West Denmark has an additional record of 150 police students and a border reserve for inter alia. police action on the Danish-German border. We will not accept that Danish police should be cut back, and that is why we are also setting a clear course. We will also restore confidence in the tax administration. It is absolutely crucial that we have confidence in the management of the money paid into the community by the Danes. Unfortunately, the task of strengthening the tax administration has not been completed by next year, although we would like to. The cleanup task and the bill in the tax administration are greater than expected, and all parties must take part in the cleanup. It is a work which will last many years, and it is a work in which all the parties of the Folketing together must show responsibility. We're gonna set off 11⁄2 billion. kr. next year, and that is a boost that will help to continue the recovery of the tax administration. In addition to that, we will also set up a new control tax centre and employ 250 new control officers, so that among other things. can take action against the cheating and fraud and crime that we have seen scary examples of and where foreign types have had the straw down in the Danish Treasury. It's cost a lot. As a society, we have witnessed fraudsters getting away with billions of dollars. It must and must stop. Therefore, with the new control tax centre, we will strengthen the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning, as well as the fight against errors, cheating and organised crime in tax and VAT matters. But we want more than that. The government is also setting a new and ambitious course. We have already in the understanding paper we have made with the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, and also with strong and good and sustained inspiration from the Alternative, together set some incredibly ambitious climate objectives. It is important for Denmark, and it can help inspire the rest of the world. And I am sincerely pleased that other parties in this Parliament are also marking up on that agenda. Because there are some issues in politics that are so important that they really are not suitable for going down and trying to find hair in the soup, but instead are suitable for jointly lifting up and trying to set a direction that can really have meaning not only for us and for present generations, but also for our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren. This is one of those areas. The objectives will be enshrined in the forthcoming Climate Act, and the work on the green area begins with the Financial Bill for 2020. We will come up with more initiatives to help us achieve our ambitious green objectives. Among other things, the government will: ensure concrete commitments in the future Climate Act, then draw up a climate action plan to help ensure that national reduction targets are achieved, and we will follow up on the work of the Electric Vehicle Commission so that we can best achieve the objective that all newly registered cars are low- and zero-emission cars by 2030 at the latest. However, work is, of course, already beginning with the proposal for the Financial Act for 2020. With the proposal we are taking the first steps towards a greener Denmark where we make use of the whole palette of tools. Among other things, the government will: I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. kr. for new green research, double the charges on carrier bags and one-off service and earmark an additional 600 million. kr. in the field of development aid for green projects. But it is important to say that here too there is only a beginning and that, even if we had to raise our ambitions further, we cannot solve everything in the Folketing. This will require a huge effort from all of Denmark, from civil society, from industry, from knowledge institutions and from organisations, and therefore there is also reason to acknowledge that the Danish pension industry has committed itself to investing a further 350 billion. kr. in the green transition towards 2030. And in the same way, the Danish Industry has given a commitment to a close partnership to reach the 70%. All these things here are some that we know will only come true if we can obtain a majority here in the Folketing. We are a minority government and, although we think we have put forward a good financial bill, we will very, very much look forward to it becoming even better together with you. I would like to thank you for all the discussions I have had with all the parties and the four North Atlantic Members. It has been a good experience, and I look forward to one day in November, hopefully, as many of us as possible can also go out the glass door in the Ministry of Finance and say: we have an agreement for the benefit of Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203224	I would like to thank the Minister for Finance first of all for his answer. The Minister for Finance will not be spared any further indictment at this stage, because a large number of rapporteurs have asked to speak so that the debate will continue for some time to come. And the first person to ask for the floor is Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203243	Thank you. And also thanks for a very long analysis by the Finance Minister there was not much new in it. I also know the Minister for Finance from his former service as Minister for Defence, so it is very similar to that time ■ very analytical, very little political, very official. And that's fair enough. What I think might be interesting to know is what exactly has been done by the Minister of Finance now, after going from opposition to government, is not in a position to deliver on the promise that was made, namely that 3 billion would be found. kr. a year in, you might say, income by using fewer consulting crowns. This is something that has come as a revelation in a very short time. What makes it possible, from the presentation of the election campaign to the month of August, when the Finance Act was put into effect, to achieve that which was the largest financial contribution in the so-called Socialist economic plan, so that it was not even feasible?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203346	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen, that I actually remember our cooperation as reasonably reasonable when I was Minister and Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen was. It may be that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen was very concerned about officials, I have not been particularly concerned about them, and I really think that we should stick to what we are talking about here, namely politics. And it's there too, sir. Troels Lund Poulsen is the best. When it comes to the question of consultants, yes, it is the government's opinion that too much money is spent on external consultants in Denmark and that it would be better if we spent some of that money on our elderly, on our children, in other words directly where you can feel it. And that is exactly what we have also discussed with the Landsforening and Danske Regions, namely that we have a common task with this, because this is a challenge not only in the state, but also in the regions and out in the municipalities. Therefore, we have set out to look together at how we can reduce the use of external consultants for the benefit of welfare in Denmark. I think this is a serious and sensible way of doing it, and I very much hope that the Left will also be involved in that debate. After all, political agreements have been made in the past, which have been said that consultants need to be spared without telling them exactly how to do it. But we would like to do a thorough job here. But I'm just thinking that if mr. Troels Lund Poulsen is in doubt as to whether it is our ambition to save on consultants, so I would like to remove all that doubt from Mr Poulsen. Troels Lund Poulsen. That remains our ambition, and that is what we are working for as a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203550	I don't know if I'm in any doubt. I think you just have to note that some money was missing and then it was financed in this way. It was a major financial contribution, and it was then well known that it would not be possible to do so in the draft budget that has been presented now. But the Social Democrats have to explain that themselves. Now, of course, we have not talked so much about what makes Denmark richer today, but when you look at the proposal that the Social Democratic Party has put forward for debate, there are probably two things you can ask about, as I also think it might be interesting to get a bid from the Social Democratic Party: first of all you can ask how much richer Denmark will be with the financial law that is now being negotiated. And you can also discuss and ask the Finance Minister how many more people will then be in employment, so that we still have a good tax base to ensure the welfare society. Because there we are in agreement after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203646	This government is incredibly busy making Denmark richer and also getting people into employment. In fact, we believe that one of the very best ways we can ensure this is what I also spent a little time on in my speech, namely that we should invest in education. If there is something that I have also heard there has been criticism of in relation to the previous government by the Danish business community, it is, of course, that you cut and cut on the education programmes. We live in a world that is global and where there is stronger and stronger competition every day. Therefore, we cannot afford our young people not to be among the best in the world when they go out with a diploma in hand. And we can't afford too many of them not to get that diploma. In relation to employment next year, we expect it to increase by approx. Twenty-six thousand.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203750	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203752	Thank you. Yeah, so long as they don't get to work in a Danish privately owned company. Well, that's not what I wanted to say. What I wanted to say was that when you start by reading the title of the draft Finance Act... First, you get security, trust and a green future... then you kind of get quite positive. I will stick to the words'security and trust', as it says in the middle of the text, and now I will read out here what kind of people we have endured in Denmark: we have 18 who have committed drug crime; there are 18 who have committed war crimes; 12 who have committed rape and attempted rape; 8 who have committed murder; 6 who have committed serious violence; 3 who have committed violence with death; 3 have committed robbery; 2 have committed arson; 2 are traffickers; 2 are at the risk of state security, and 1 has tried to commit terrorism. They were the ones who should have been out on Lindholm, where you could keep track of where these people are staying, among other things. at night. Today, they move freely. So my question to the Minister for Finance is: where should these people be, and how does the new government want to keep track of where these people are, because when they run around freely, there is not much security and trust in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203905	It is absolutely crucial for the government that the people to be sent out of Denmark are under control. When you are at an exit centre, it is because you no longer have to be in Denmark. Some of the people we are talking about have committed incredibly serious crimes, and I think we are looking at this together with the greatest seriousness. So the question is, what is the best location? And there the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party, has found out that it should be Lindholm. I just think that it has to be said in all silence that it is an incredibly expensive and not very appropriate place to place these people. That is why the government will take the initiative to find a better solution than the one reached by the previous government and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203958	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022203959	Well, that's what we look forward to too. There is no doubt that it was a proposal made by the previous government and the Danish People's Party. It was a solution to where these people should be until they can leave Denmark. After all, it is people who have been judged in Denmark by a Danish judge that they are not allowed to stay in Denmark any longer and they are therefore here on a tolerated basis. That is why it is quite important to say when you do not want what the previous government and the Danish People's Party wanted, what you want. Is it just an exit center where you can drive in the BMW, go in and cross off, and then you can drive again and continue your criminal career? Or is it a place where you actually expect you to be able to control these people, for example during the night hours?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204040	After all, it is vitally important that we have as well a handle on these people as possible. It has to be said that it is extremely serious crimes that also occur among these people. What we have said is that it is not a question of finding a place where we have people in control and where we do not risk them starting to commit a new crime, but it is a question of whether the location and solution found under the previous government, together with the Danish People's Party, were the wisest. And there we say: no, we do not think so. It was an incredibly expensive solution and it was also a solution that would take a very long time to implement. And that is why one has to ask oneself the question: if it is something that is enormously expensive and takes a very long time to implement, is it the right thing to do? That's where we think we can come up with something smarter. And of course we will return to the Folketing with that when we have the concrete idea of what the solution should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204142	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204145	Thank you. The Minister of Finance himself says how ambitious this 70-percent target for reducing greenhouse gases is, and also thank you for the help to get there. And it is true that it is really an ambitious goal, and we take ambition very seriously in the Radical Left. We take them so seriously that we want them to be dealt with. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether it is true that there is not a single initiative to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark next year in the Social Democrats' financial act. Are there no initiatives in the Social Democrats' draft budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204239	First of all, I am very pleased that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen shares the ambition of the 70-percent target with the parties that have pointed to the government and the alternative and more have arrived. We would very much like to see the agreement that we hope will reach, among other things. with the Radical Left take further initiatives in relation to what the government has already put forward. We have a negotiating reserve of more than 2 billion. kr., we can also spend on the green. Then we also have initiatives in the draft budget that we have put forward, which I very much hope will help to reduce emissions. When we have an ambition to reach the 70%. By 2030, it is now time to allocate money to research; it is not, after all, in 2029 if we are to have the new tools that we know we will need. And we must also note that pollution and climate problems are not, of course, isolated to the Kingdom of Denmark. It is also very much a global challenge. Therefore, it is also that we would very much like to use development aid as a tool to solve problems outside Denmark's borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204400	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204401	Yes, but it is in Denmark that we have committed ourselves to reducing CO2 by 2030, and I must of course take the Minister of Finance's answer as an expression of the fact that there are no concrete initiatives in the Socialist Finance Bill to measure CO2 We are happy to contribute with a great many proposals. One of them is for 1 billion. kr. the setting-up of vulnerable agricultural land because it will really contribute both to reducing CO2 Could it be one of the ways in which the Minister of Finance saw that we could reduce CO2 and will the Minister of Finance also look at other measures that can actually help to increase funding, namely the green taxes that can also reduce CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204449	Yes, please! The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204451	I am very happy to listen to good suggestions on how a green finance law can become even greener. I also believe that we must pay close attention to what we are using instruments and instruments. And set-aside is one of the very positive things that can be looked at there. It is also, without revealing too much, ideas which not only the Radical Left but also other parties share an ambition with the government that can be a tool we can use. And then I think it is important to say that when it comes to this effort, it is not only the Finance Act, it is also a Climate Act, and then it is a climate action plan that is at stake. The Finance Act is the first part of a three-step rocket.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204537	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204538	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for his speech and statement. The Minister for Finance says that he does not have a money tree. None of us does, and that is why, if you have more wishes, you must come up with some funding proposals. And the SF has also done so in what we have put forward. We have been very concerned that when we want to spend some more money on welfare, specifically for more educators for children and a more ambitious climate effort, we also need funding that is moving in the right direction in terms of reducing inequality and ensuring green transition. Then I would just like to mention three examples of our funding. One is capital taxation on interest and share dividends; the other is a more progressive arrangement of our inheritance tax; the third is the airline tax. This is something beyond what the government has as funding. Does the government agree that additional funding should very much go the right way when it comes to reducing inequality and ensuring the green transition? The Minister does not have to deal specifically with these proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204657	In general terms, then, I think that we have put forward a financial bill in which we have some very sensible balances, so that we strengthen welfare, strengthen security, set a green direction and also ensure that the money is managed. If you have to find some other sources of income, then it is clear that it must also be something that is connected, both in relation to the Danish population and in relation to the business community. We would also like to stress this point. But in the coming weeks I look forward to hearing the party's bid, not only where you can spend the money, but how you can get the money. So I think I'll have ample opportunity to hear over in the red building from Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204743	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has the floor again.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204745	Thank you. That's right. Because, together with the three proposals and a proposal to spend a little less money on consultants in the public sector, we can bring forward 2.7 billion. kr. extra for the negotiations. And after all, you can get some educators and green conversion for that. When it is so important to us that we also need funding that is moving in the right direction in terms of reducing inequality, it is because it is mentioned several times in the understanding paper that the government and the parties will make efforts to reduce inequality. And with all due respect, it is not the government's financial bill for 2020 that is taking such a huge step in reducing inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204832	As I said, I think that what the government has put forward has a very good balance, both in terms of inequality and in terms of providing good conditions for our business community. We focus on holding hands under the welfare society, which has been subjected to fairly tough treatment in recent years, and where very, very many of our skilled employees are running far too fast. Inequality is something that also occupies this government, just as it does the SF. And I am glad that we now have a government and a majority in Denmark, for whom combating inequality is something that we attach importance to and think is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204913	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022204914	I think it is important to note, when we look at the economic agreements, that money has probably been set aside that goes beyond the demographic trait, but there has not been a boost that safeguards against deterioration or cuts. There are no guarantees for it around the country. That is why we have to say that when we see the draft Finance Act that the government has put forward, which is much better than what we have been used to in the last four years, we must also recognise that, as the Enhedslisten's finance rapporteur, if there is to be a rise in welfare that is justified by the expectations of the demonstrating parents and grandparents in relation to minimum standards, and if we are to have money for the green transition that climate activists have demonstrated for, then the EUR 2.1 billion. kr., which has been put forward in negotiating reserve, just not enough. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: when the Minister for Finance has heard the debate today and heard the speeches of Radicals, the SF and the Enhedslisten, does it not make a very great impression on the Minister for Finance that all the three parties think that more money should be on the table and that there are, in fact, also funding proposals that can make it happen? Isn't this really just about the political will of the finance minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205029	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205031	It would be incredibly unwise for a finance minister in a minority government to say that it does not make an impression when the parliamentary basis comes up with ideas and proposals • of course it does. But what is my task as Finance Minister is to ensure, in cooperation with the parties that may end up being part of a Finance Act, that we have some sensible balances, both in relation to what we spend the money on, and it is for me to see welfare first, among other things. I think it is incredibly important to have more nurses and more employees in general, both in our municipalities and regions; that is what we have taken steps to do with the municipal and regional agreements, but also to ensure that there is an economic balance. In fact, with this draft budget we have a clear commitment to welfare, and I welcome the fact that the Enhedslisten rapporteur also recognises that this is a completely different way of dealing with things than has been seen under the previous governments.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205139	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205140	If we are to have money for minimum standards, if we are to lift the primary school, if we are to fill the hum-samf limit, if we are to remove the education ceiling, and if psychiatry is to have an emergency billion, which is a key demand from the Enhedslisten for the negotiations, we just have to note that then there is not enough money. And if, at the same time, we have a situation in which there is clearly broad agreement on additional sources of funding that can be included in the financial law negotiations, then it is really just a question of the political will to strike and say: well, we are spending that money on something that is already apparent from the understanding paper and that it is obvious that we must...
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205221	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205223	Without revealing too much from the negotiations, I think we can say: yes, that is correct. And it has also emerged from today that there are incredibly many ideas about how we can spend more money. There are also some suggestions on how to raise more money. But it is not necessarily the case that those who agree to use them also agree on how the money is to be provided. The short thing is that the financial bill we have put forward gives a clear boost to some important areas, but we cannot solve it all in the first Finance Act, and I will not be able, as Minister of Finance, to meet all the wishes of all parties in this Parliament Hall.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205301	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205303	Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for the fact that the Minister of Finance also noted Conservatives' desire to cooperate with the government. I very much hope we will get to that during this parliamentary term. Life is simply too short to sit and be angry opposition, so we are not going to be. But we are very anxious about which direction the Socialists will take. There is, of course, such a certain amount of tension in social democracy, in terms of what economic policy you want to pursue, and the Minister for Finance will have a legacy at some point. Will he be the new Lykketoft, Corydon or Anker Jørgensen? It's very exciting in which direction you kind of move there. Therefore, I would like to have the Minister of Finance put a few words on a financial bill that has a negative impact on how many people are going to work and a financial bill that raises taxes, even though there is a very, very large margin of manoeuvre. I find it a little difficult to understand this: there is a huge room for manoeuvre where you could lower taxes and still have a structural surplus, but you still think that taxes should rise.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205410	What the government has put forward here is a really sensible, responsible economic policy, in which we set a clear direction that sets welfare first and in which, at the same time, we also strengthen our police and rebuild our tax administration. And we also think it is extremely important to set a green direction. If this government succeeds in doing so, then I would be very pleased with that legacy as Minister of Finance. I don't think it's me who's going to write my legacy. I have only been in the job for a very short time, and I hope to be allowed to sit in it a little longer, so it's probably a little early to write it. But one of the things I hope will be part of that legacy is that we are a government that will be responsible for broad cooperation. That is why I should like to express my thanks once again to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov to say that you do not want to be an angry opposition, but that you want to pull on the work clothes. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205510	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205512	You're welcome. The ambition to be a green finance minister is a very good one, and we would like to support it. I believe that the whole or at least almost the whole parliament would like to support that there is more focus on the green and that we will get something done about the climate challenges. But we still have to deal with the more traditional objectives of labour supply and surpluses in the state budget. We cannot just ignore that, and I am sure the Minister of Finance will agree with that. That is why I would like to ask once again: is it not a pity to put forward a proposal for a financial law with a negative supply of labour? And again, why do taxes have to be raised when there is this great room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205553	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205554	As I have said, we are presenting a highly responsible financial act and when we look at what employment will be like next year, we expect approx. 26,000 more at work. The labour supply effect of the draft budget is not extremely high. There is a slight decrease at first, and then there is a slight increase afterwards. However, I believe that some of what we can hopefully talk about together is how we can make wise reforms forward-looking, and some of what I would very much like to do, including with the Conservatives, is what we call second-generation reforms, where it is not just about how many people we get in labour supply, but what they have in terms of qualifications.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205637	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205640	Thank you. I understand that the Minister for Finance is looking forward to a green cape, but you have to earn it, and I promise it will be smart. I could understand from an earlier answer that the Finance Act, like the Finance Act, is the first step, and then comes climate law, and then comes climate action plan. And I have to ask whether the Minister for Finance has now taken it down from the debate here today, which clearly shows that the first step that has been taken in relation to the climate action plan, as well as not led up high enough, has certainly not been heard by anyone who simply applauded the Finance Act and said: here we are doing very well. That is one question. The second question is: Have you made a definite CO2 There can be no greenhouse gas reduction in the project that has come from the government when you sit and look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205735	I fully agree with the rapporteur that we should earn the titles we would like to decorate ourselves with. What I have said is that I want to be a green finance minister. And when I say that, it is not because I, as Minister of Finance, cannot also have the virtues that a finance minister has normally had. Rasmus Jarlov asked about the box still having to vote to get things straight, we need to get the priorities straight. But I just think, and what I would think is one of the things that the Alternative would agree with me that by the year 2019 it is not enough. You also need to set yourself some green objectives, and some of what we are too bad for today is actually to be able to see what the impact of the measures we are taking is. That's why I'm going to set aside money to make green arithmetic models. I don't think we have enough knowledge. For the discussion here today: Am I inspired by it? Yes, I do. Am I optimistic, even after having had a visit from the Alternative in the Ministry of Finance? Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205841	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Civil... Well, I'm sorry, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist! It just went a little too fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205851	I have more, always more. Lovely that the Minister of Finance is also inspired by the talk today, and now I have also noticed that the government has raised a lot, so I am also a little curious to learn something when you now see what is happening in the world in this area • Green New Deal is being presented in Europe, in the United States, in England. Is this also part of what is being taken down as a finance minister, in other words some of the very ambitious proposals to move towards a green transition in a new way, both socially and economically?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022205919	Yes, very much. As I described in my speech, during the fall break I was meeting with one of Trump's top advisors in the White House, and besides that I had the opportunity to meet with finance ministers from most of the world, including finance ministers from what is called the Coalition of Finance Ministers for Climate Action. It was a good experience because there is an assembly of finance ministers who, like me, say that we need to be able to do something more and that we need to coordinate across, we need to think the green in, not just as something we talk about in toast speeches, but as a backbone in the way we also think about the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210000	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210003	Thank you for that, and thank you for recognizing the fact that I take that as a compliment and I will do so in this minute that I now have. Now let's take this with consultants. It doesn't have to be that difficult. If we say it's about this 10-11 billion. kr. What you do is you find out how much of the 11 billion. kr. the state represents the proportion of the regions and the share of the municipalities. If it's 3 billion. kr., you will save, as the Social Democratic Party says, you will distribute it over three years. That's 1 billion. kr. a year. Then we know what percentage of one billion kroner a year should be saved in the municipalities and in the regions, and what part the state should represent. Then you reduce the contribution to the regions by that percentage and then you reduce the contribution to the municipalities in the same way. If the regions and the municipalities do not deliver that saving, then it is because they do not need to start a long study to find out. It's just getting the job started.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210109	I always think it's good to kick in what you can choose to do, and now I also know that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has a past in Aarhus City Council and has an insight from there. I very much hope that, in the discussions we will have both with the National Association of Municipalities and with the Danish Regions, we can jointly find out how we do this best, so that we find the money without having any bad effects out there, and I think we can do that too. I am one of those who believe, both the state and the municipalities and the regions, that things can be done wiser than they are today, and that we have a responsibility for it to happen, and as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said from this platform: That is among other things. from where those decisions have to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210208	I am really happy about that, because it is indeed leadership, and I am glad that you mention the municipality of Aarhus, because that is exactly what you did in the municipality of Aarhus when you said: we want a 10-percent reduction. We're gonna take it out to the individual Magistrate Divisions. Then they have to deliver on the objective we want, because we therefore believe that this money can be spent better than on external consultants, and then we take the step, and then we set the demands. That is a requirement that the government should also set for the regions and for the municipalities. At least that's the call from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210236	I'm gonna share sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's joy and pride over Aarhus Municipality. I'm not hiding that. If you can inspire the government and parliament in the municipality of Aarhus in this context too, it is certainly worth taking along. I also believe that there are important experiences from other municipalities and regions and perhaps even from the state. But what we can at least say is that now we have a government that gives priority to this and has set work in motion. It is not a joke that we have done it; it is because we have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210309	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210314	After all, the Finance Minister and I have both been appointed and elected in the Østjyllands Storkreds, and this means that when there is an election campaign, we are out, sometimes in the same educational establishments, and talk to the young people, participate in panel debates etc. We were also at this time, in the third election campaign that we have been in together. I remember very clearly how the Minister of Finance told the young people at the time that he and the Social Democrats would give priority to the green transition much higher than he claimed the blue parties would. How many of the young people think the Minister of Finance expected that in his first Finance Act the Minister of Finance would raise the registration tax on electric cars?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210402	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210404	I think that the young people who weren't just at meetings with Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen and myself, but all over the country, gave a message to us politicians across parties that the green should be put in the forefront. You have a very clear expectation that that is what we are doing. The government in which I am the Minister of Finance has just put forward a financial bill in which we put more than 2 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We're bringing in a Climate Act that I don't know about Mr. Simpson. Ole Birk Olesen will be a part of that, but I hope so, and then a climate action plan. I believe that this is to a large extent what the young people we met, whether they voted blue or red, had the expectation that we would put action behind the words. This government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210505	I remember those debates. I also remember that there were young people who could not understand that there was any registration tax on electric cars, since it is now a green car that can be charged with power from wind turbines at night and then use that power during the day. I do not think that one of the young people had an idea of ^ the words used by the Minister of Finance in the debates that he as his first deed as Minister of Finance would present a Finance Act with higher tax on electric cars. I believe that the young people feel abandoned by the Minister of Finance. I think the young people feel that he has cheated them in the election campaign. What does the Minister of Finance have to say in his defense?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210544	I'd like to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, that I believe that very many young people have felt cheated by politicians in general for too long, namely cheated in the way that we have not really taken the responsibility of setting a green direction in here. The new government for Denmark does. In cooperation with other parties, we have set the reduction target of 70%. It's epoch-making. This is crucial in a Danish context. It sets a direction at a global level. And instead of dealing with one piece, I think that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen was supposed to look at the whole puzzle.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210627	Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210633	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. One of the things that gave me a little hope during the election campaign was this social democracy advertisement with a lot of letters, and then there was such a word game that was supposed to show that the one-party government of the Social Democratic Party would act right and left and make various agreements across the middle, among other things. in the field of aliens. And I saw that as a patch on the wound for some of the other appointments. But the reality is that the government is already setting up ten concessions in the field of foreigners. You want to give significantly more money to refugee families, you want to make it much easier to earn cash aid, even if you haven't been in Denmark for a long time, you want to make it easier for refugees to stay in Denmark. We see figures from the Ministry of Finance showing that the burden on Danish society is around 33 billion per year. kr. for non-western immigration. Has the Minister of Finance calculated how much these ten relaxations cost Danish society in dollars and cents?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210734	I have to say that what is very important for this government is and is willing to cooperate widely, and I hope that the Left Party will also take responsibility for continuing the firm and tight immigration policy which we believe to be of crucial importance to Denmark and which I also hope that the majority of this Parliament will continue to support. Because I am absolutely convinced that the people are doing so. And we are not going to relax foreign policy. But there have been decisions under the previous government which we think have been unwise, for example. the decision on Lindholm; that you would spend a lot, a lot of money, more than you need, on something that, by the way, takes far too long. And that is just one example in which we can say that there we will continue a strict immigration policy, but we will do the wiser thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210831	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210834	When I started as rapporteur for foreigners just over four years ago, what I learned very quickly was that the level of social benefits matters and how easy it is to stay in a country matters. And that is exactly two of the things I mentioned just now: you want to give more money to refugee families, you want to make it easier to earn cash aid, even if you have not been in Denmark for a long time, and you want to make it easier to stay. Can the Minister not see that these are, after all, some of the most bell-clear and most powerful relaxations that can be brought in at all? But if the Minister does not want to give an economic figure of how much this will cost Danish society, can the Minister say how much of the Danish culture we buy by making these concessions?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210911	We stand guard over a strict and fair foreign policy for this country. This is an absolutely fundamental and crucial part of the work of this government, and I assume that a large majority in the Danish Parliament will continue to support it. And we would very much like to stand firm on this in cooperation with, among others, the United States. Left in the coming years when this government is going to develop its foreign policy. And then I hope that the experience gained over the last four years in government is something that can also be enjoyed in opposition and that we stand together on the course we have jointly set.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022210955	Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211000	Thank you. In fact, I had great hopes for the government's financial bill, but unfortunately I was rather disappointed. Because although it is very good that the government has chosen to live up to the contract paper when it comes to abolishing the re-priority contribution, unfortunately not all savings in education have been abolished. At any rate, I cannot find the continuation of the taximeter promise to humanist and social science education in the project, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance himself has actually used the so-called finance minister's language and called it a cliff. And that is why I would just like to know whether the government has forgotten to get the taximeter lift or whether it is a choice not to prioritise our education, but to impose a saving of 290 million on them. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211100	I have certainly not forgotten the problem of hum-samf, but I have also said very openly: we cannot solve all the problems in the first financial law we make, but we can take some important steps in the right direction. One of the most important things in terms of education is that we can get rid of the re-priority contribution which has really caused incredibly great damage across the Danish education world. And I think the Radical Left also shares that view. Then we have not been able to get everything in addition, but I would just like to point out in all silence that we have a negotiating reserve of more than 2 billion. kr., which I among others. We expect to discuss with the Radical Left. And there, after all, the parties have the opportunity to make their wishes known. And if this is one of the wishes of the Radical Left, of course we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211203	Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211206	I would now like to hope that it is still a priority for the Minister of Finance to continue the taximeter lift. And if inspiration is lacking, you can look at the radical proposal yourself. There, at least, we have found funding for both the abolition of the re-priority contribution, re-investment in training, the abolition of the education ceiling and the continuation of the taximeter lift. But before the elections Mattias Tesfaye actually stated that if Mette Frederiksen became Prime Minister, the educations should not be concerned about cuts in the taximeter lift. Now, at least, we have actually helped to make the Social Democratic Party a governing party, which is why I would just like to know whether it was a mistake for the Social Democrats to say before the elections that they wanted to continue the taximeter vow or whether it is a mistake now that they did not have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211301	Thank you. I should just like to make a request that you do not use the "I" and "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as well as "I" as "I" as well as "I" as "I" as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211310	Thank you. We still think that we would like to give a boost elsewhere in the educational world, for example in relation to hum-samf. But we have also taken things in order, and the most important task we had in the field of education was to get rid of that re-priority contribution. This does not mean that we do not also want to improve conditions in relation to hum-samf. And then I just say: we do have a negotiating reserve together, we are now going to discuss it, and I am very happy to accept it; I even think that tomorrow afternoon I will be visited by the Radical Left, and I wonder if we will discuss it here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211400	Then it's mr. Tommy Ahlers from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211407	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Minister of Finance. It is fantastic to experience the great passion of the Minister of Finance for education, and I have to say that the Minister of Finance surprises me a little by taking it a little further and saying that investment in education in this Finance Act is government growth initiatives. When that is the case, I have a very simple question which should be quite easy for a finance minister to answer, and that is: what is the impact of the increased investment in education in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211438	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211439	I think that depends a little on exactly what kind of financial law we're gonna end up with, but it's not like there's a huge bnp effect in this. What we are doing is, in fact, putting an end to the planned savings under the previous government. I actually think that it shouldn't be polemical that we both share that passion, but the difference is that Mr. Tommy Ahlers had the task of being a minister in a government that saved on education across a broad spectrum. Then there is no point in having all the good will in the world and the best intentions and, incidentally, a great deal of insight and knowledge, for that is the case. Tommy Ahlers, if there isn't a government that is also prepared to put action behind the words "and it's this government."
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211538	Sir. Tommy Ahlers.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211540	Thank you. I agree that we share the passion, and that is why we were also in favour of saying in the election campaign that if we had been the ones who should have stood there today, we would also have abolished the re-priority contribution. So we actually share that. But we also share the view that we need to do something concrete to bring about growth in society, and so I would like to ask again: what is the concrete impact of the investment in education and training also provided that other parties get through with even more investment in education? There was no clear answer before. Is it because the Minister does not know, or because the Minister does not think there is a knock-on effect of that investment in education?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211616	I certainly believe that there is a knock-on effect of this when you invest in education as well. It may be there in the short term. It may be there in the long term. Sir. Tommy Ahlers then asked: what will the bnp effect be if, by the way, this government makes an agreement with other parties that strengthen education? I have to say that as Minister of Finance I am used to having many balls in the air, but I am not a fortune teller, and I do not yet know what kind of financial law I am going to make with other parties, and thus what the impact on education may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211649	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211655	Thank you. After all, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly spoken this evening about how important it is to put action behind words. I actually think the Danes have an expectation of doing that as a government, especially when you are a one-party government and among other things. has put the Danes in view of the desire to increase welfare by saving 3 billion. kr. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Authority considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with the functioning of the EEA Agreement. 3 billion kr. And it seems that it was too, because at least there is a large round zero to be found in the government's draft budget when it comes to finding the 3 billion. kr., which the Danes had been promised. Instead, a working group must now be set up. That is the right thing, and that is the serious way to do it, we must understand at the Minister for Finance today. Yeah, that's quite right, but why didn't you tell the Danes honestly, it said straight to the Danes, that no, we can't just hokuspokus magic 3 billion. kr. Let's go. Instead, an economic plan was drawn up which said that already by 2020 3 billion could be found. kr., not over several years, but over every year. Why was it not said frankly that it required more thorough work? My question should then be to the Minister for Finance: since it requires more thorough work and thereby fails to honour its promises this year, the Minister for Finance will guarantee that 3 billion have been found. kr. Annually on the Finance Bill of the Government in 2021?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211814	I just want to say in all silence that at no time have we said that it could just be done with a fingertips. There are very few things in politics that can just be done with a fingertips. But we have said that we think too much money is being spent on external consultants in Danish society. This has been done under the previous government and probably also under the social democratic government. This is happening in the municipalities, and it is happening in the regions, which is why it is probably very sensible to put together some people who each have a responsibility for how we can bring it down. That is exactly what we are doing with municipalities and regions. And when we do that work, it's because we want to cut back on the consultants that you use too many of. Otherwise, there was no reason to do this work with the Danish municipalities and Danske Regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211911	Mrs. Sophie Løhde.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022211913	But, Minister of Finance, I fully agree that this cannot be done simply by fingertips, and that is why I am very surprised that the Social Democrats, in their economic plan for 2020, have already introduced a source of funding, by the way, the largest source of funding at all. In social democratic economic policy there were 3 billion. kr. already in 2020. So if it could not be done with a fingertips, which we agree on, why did they tell the Danes that they could do so? Why was it not honest and said that it required a working group, that it required processes and everything else? However, back to my question, to which the Minister of Finance did not reply: will the Minister of Finance guarantee that the 2021 Finance Act, with the proposal to be presented by the government, will deliver on his promise and find a saving of 3 billion? kr. a year on consultants?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212008	To that I would say that we have not at any time put the Danes in view of the fact that this could be done with a fingertips. That is simply not true when Mrs Sophie Løhde says so. In fact, the only place you have actually made that manoeuvre without telling how it was going to take place was in connection with an agreement made under the previous government, where perhaps Mrs Sophie Løhde was sitting at the table, and here you said you could just find 200 million. kr., without any indication of how it was to be done. That is one of the reasons why we now have a need to check how everything should be linked to that agreement, and there is a job in it. We are doing things seriously in this government and we are still working to reduce the use of external consultants, and we can be absolutely sure that there is a guarantee that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212058	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212103	Thanks for the speech. The Minister's Social Democratic colleague began here earlier today by saying: welfare first, investing in welfare, security must apply to everyone, and we must make Danish companies more competitive. I sat there and noted it. But does this also apply to the family-owned companies employing 850,000 Danes? I would like to ask the Minister whether the farmer, the game developer, the bricklayer's company, the restaurant and many other family-owned companies will have better or worse opportunities to invest in necessary technology, green conversion, export, new jobs, that is, everything that will precisely help to finance our welfare and our green future if the inheritance tax triples?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212144	I myself and the government have very much respect for the work being done in Danish business, including in the family-owned companies. I think that whatever we might think of the specific proposal, there is reason for Parliament to express that respect and recognition on an evening like this evening too. Then it is true that we are going to change this matter in relation to the housing and gift tax. We are doing so because we think it is common sense to reverse the decision that has been taken in the past. This is also what the Economic Council has said makes sense. It is also something which the former government ministers have expressed has no effect on behaviour, and I quote from an answer given by my predecessor, Mr President. Kristian Jensen: As a whole, it is therefore the assessment that there is no evidence of significant behavioural effects linked to changes in the housing and gift charges. So this is from the previous government of which the author's party was a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212257	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212259	It's just a shame that nobody asked me and asked the family-owned companies. Because will the government change the current practice of SKAT regarding the valuation of companies, which is of course about goodwill and future earnings, because that might also help to help the case? There is, of course, a method today which means that companies do not know what they are actually being taxed on in connection with generational change. Do you want to be willing to look at it? Would the Minister be willing to take a look at that?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212326	After all, the Minister for Business and Industry has announced that you would like to have a dialogue with the Danish business community about the valuation and, moreover, with regard to the period during which you have to make these payments. It is an expression that we want a constructive solution in cooperation with the Danish business community, because the Danish business community is so incredibly important to Denmark. This applies to both the small and larger family-owned companies and also to all other companies in this country. So the answer is that the Minister for Industry has announced that he would very much like to take that dialogue, and I think that is something that Mrs Juul will also hear more about on behalf of her party.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212409	It is the case that, according to the Rules of Procedure, there is one hour to debate when the Minister for Finance has spoken. And that means we can get to two more lines, and the first one is from sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212424	Thank you. I'll be brief. When did the Social Democratic Party come up with the proposal to abolish the broadband pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212434	As far as the broadband pool is concerned, it is, after all, a pool that is likely to expire. It has then been planned for an evaluation to be carried out to see what the results have been of the work that it has been able to contribute to. And what has been announced by the Minister for Climate and Energy, under whom this is heard, is that the evaluation will be completed before we conclude the financial law negotiations. And if it turns out that the evaluation is positive, then it is my expectation that we can make an agreement where we continue the broadband pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212514	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212517	Thank you. I was just somewhat puzzled when I saw the Minister of Finance presenting the government's draft Finance Bill. Because during the last parliamentary term I was a telerapporteur and I think it was the Minister for Health who was the then rural rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party. And for years we in the Left were criticised for not putting enough money into the broadband pool. Too little we didn't do enough. In all its financial proposals, while in opposition, the Social Democratic Party had zero crowns to strengthen efforts to ensure better broadband for Denmark. I am delighted that new notes are now on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212557	I'm glad to hear that, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is now filled with joy at the government's work. I hope that will spread to other members of the Left Parliament Group. Because that would be a very good starting point for the cooperation that we should have with each other. And so thank you very much for that support.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212619	Then it's mr. Nils Sjøberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212623	I should like to begin by welcoming the Minister for Finance, who mentions that those who look after our elderly and sick are running too fast. I fully agree with the Minister for Finance. But when I read through the Finance Act, I can see that no more money has been allocated to this area. Among other things: there is no more money for demented people, no more money for mentally ill people, and at the same time the Minister announces that the money must follow. How will the Minister make this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212655	I hope that the questioner will also read the agreements made by the government with the Landsforening and Danske Regioner respectively, which are part of the overall financial law, and which means that we can now hold a hand under welfare. And when, among other things... If there are more older people, which is really nice and in every way positive, then money must also be included. And that's actually what we've made an agreement with Danske Regions about in relation to the health care system, that's what we've made an agreement with KL about, compared to what's happening locally. Does what we've done here solve all the problems? No, but I sincerely welcome, also as former mayor, the fact that we can now take an important step in the opposite direction of cuts and cuts, where we have had to run stronger and stronger. In addition, the government has also proposed to allocate money to the recruitment of 1,000 additional nurses.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212800	Sir. Nils Sjøberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212802	In addition to this, it is a good idea to hire 1,000 extra nurses, you might say, that they will be difficult to obtain, as the situation is at the moment. And if you look at the two things in the Finance Act and the proposals made for the regions and the municipalities, then there is not much more that has been set aside. But I would like to hear what concrete action will be taken. For now the Minister of Finance is talking about what to do for the elderly. What are we going to do about the group that is the weakest elderly? Will you help them, help them?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212833	That is absolutely right: the weakest elderly are a very special group, and we need to have a lot of attention on it. And that is also one of the things we have had in mind, of course, when we actually allocated quite a lot more money to the municipal agreement and to the regional agreement. The municipality agreement, compared to what has been the starting point, is an overall boost of approx. Two-and-a-half billion. kr., the regions about 1.5 billion. kr. And it is not something that solves everything, not even in relation to our weakest elderly, but it is a first step, and it is an important step. And I would very much hope that this government will be able to take further steps in the future and in the coming years, which will help to create better conditions for our weakest elderly people, also in relation to psychiatry, both young people with mental problems, but also much wider than that, because that is what is needed. And that is where I see the Radical Left as one of the parties that will be a strong ally in putting that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022212941	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for answering questions for one hour. I shall then open the debate to the second part of the debate, in which any contributions made by the rapporteur in the second round, with a speaking time of 5 minutes, will take place with access to short remarks from up to three Members. And I need to know if anyone wants to speak for the second round. That does not seem to be the case, so as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213022	The debate is open. I should like to ask if anyone wishes to speak. Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213121	Thank you for that, President. Normally we do not say anything about this matter, and I can also reassure the Minister for Finance that we will vote in favour of both proposals. But why I am taking the floor is because this is about the expenditure ceilings, and we would actually like to take this opportunity to say, when we are down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, that it may be time to look at a more flexible solution in relation to the plant ceilings. What we can see is that the municipalities are demanding and, for that matter, the regions too are flexibility because the construction budgets are getting bigger and bigger. For example, if a municipality is to build a primary school, it can quickly cost a few hundred million gradually. We can see that there is a huge backlog in relation to old people's homes and other things. What is happening is that the projects sometimes move between the years, and then what is facing these challenges is that the expenditure ceilings are so narrow and run one year at a time. So it is really just a call for the current Minister of Finance to take part in his deliberations, whether it is not time to look at an opportunity to adjust the level not to remove the ceilings but to make it more flexible in relation to the plant ceilings. So it was just a remark in relation to the proposal, but again it is a proposal that we of course support, as it stands, in relation to the agreement reached with the KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213236	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213244	L 2 and L 3 follow on from the budget law, which we are going to review in this parliamentary year. It should not be a secret that we would like to see the budget law scrapped altogether for many different reasons. The Budget Act provides, among other things, for: It has imposed severe financial sanctions on municipalities in the event of budget overruns. If under a consumer more than budgeted, the budget overrun will be offset in the block subsidy in the coming year. It is a mechanism that has led to a austerity behaviour in the municipalities, which has propagated itself right down to the individual institutions. For fear of spending just a little too much, all the institutions save up, and when all the links in the chain save so much, that leads to a high level of spending compared to the budgeted. You can see, if we look at the years 2011-2017, that then the municipalities have spent a total of 31.5 billion. kr. This amounts to an average saving of just over 4.5 billion. kr. or barely 2%. the total net operating costs of the municipalities, or the equivalent of over 9,000 public employees per year. After all, the reduction in consumption means that the municipalities provide less welfare than the citizens pay for, which is why the bill for the budget law has been sent to the beneficiaries of welfare. At the same time, the budget law also leads to an inappropriate use of public funds because it imposes savings behaviour throughout the municipal system, while also exerting pressure to spend the money at the end of the year. The reason for this is, of course, that the budget law has not given access to the possibility that for one year less consumption could lead to additional consumption in the coming years. This means that if the money is not spent in the year, it cannot be spent the following year without breaking the new year's budget framework. This is one of the things that we need to look at in relation to a revision of the budget law, and it is also one of the things that we will probably have to revise: some kind of multiannual budget which could lead to a relaxation of the budget law, which, after all, will lead to a more sensible management of the economy of municipalities and regions. There are also other proposals that we intend to bring forward in relation to the whole discussion on the budget law. If it is that we do not want to follow our proposal to completely scrap the budget law, then we can follow a handful of less far-reaching proposals. You can, for example. exempt certain investments from the plant ceiling, which are targeted climate investments. In our view, climate investment should be excluded from the plant ceiling. In this way, greater flexibility can be created. One can sign into the law, as the FOA has proposed, that the public economy should follow population development and the other development of prosperity, i.e.: full, the prosperity-proof demographic trait instead of just the demographic trait.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213609	Excuse me, hold on a second. Understandably, at this time a somewhat loose atmosphere has spread down on the chairs, and I should like to ask for this to be dampened a little so that we can hear what the rapporteur is saying. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213618	Thank you. We know that a more flexible interpretation of the deficit requirement can be made of a structural deficit of 0.5%. of bnp can be extended to 1.0 per cent. This is possible within the framework of the European Union. And you can demand to remove the sanctions and replace them with continuous monitoring, recommendations or follow or explain the principle or make the sanctions more relaxed, if you like, so that they are measured over a four-year period and not every year as they are now. We believe it has led to inappropriate use of public funds; it has created a straitjacket which has led to less consumption in municipalities and regions, and welfare has been affected. We look forward very much to a revision of the budget law, which may not lead to a scraping, but then at least leads to so many changes to the budget law that we will have a sensible way of managing our economy and with so many revisions that it may not be a scraping, but at least it is very close to a scraping of the budget law. The Enhedslisten is opposed to the budget law, which is why we will not be voting in favour of L 2 and L 3, as we have not done in previous readings of the expenditure ceilings either.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213739	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022213751	I would also like to speak briefly with the same message, precisely because we have been discussing, for several years now, what to say, the reverse of the medal by having a budget law. Unlike the Enhedslisten, we in the SF do not believe that it is harmful to have a budget law, but we think it is harmful to have the budget law that we have today. It has caused less spending on welfare and, in particular, a two-digit billion sum. Money, which has been decided democratically to be spent on welfare, has not been spent because the consequences have been too severe for the municipalities, and thus for a long time it has not dared to use what had actually been dropped off. So we want a budget law that has been amended in a number of areas, so that there is a lot more elastic in times of crisis, so that we can conduct an expansive financial policy, a Keynesian policy, if we like, and that we relax the sanctions so that we do not have this very damaging under-utilisation in the municipalities and regions, that there will be the possibility of multiannual budgets, and finally, as Mr. Rune Lund said that we are actually thinking about the climate investments that we need to make, so that on the construction side we exclude climate and energy investment. We do not want to exempt the entire site. We have a reasonable thundering economy right now, so it is also an excellent management tool in terms of not overheating the economy. However, our message to the Minister for Finance is that we should already be in negotiations on the budget law and the sub-ceilings, because we will be pursuing this damaging policy for another year if there is no clarification in this area soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214006	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214019	I also think I should give this a few words along the way, because there was a reason why the budget law was being drawn up, and it was that some things were running out of hand, so there was a need to tighten up. Then the question is whether you have tightened up the right way and whether the way in which it is arranged now requires responsibility and independence and also gives a room for manoeuvre in the individual municipalities where they can address the needs that they each have. I do not think that is the case with the current budget law, so in New Citizens we are absolutely open to looking at this too. But responsibility and freedom go hand in hand, and it has to do this. If you give more freedom to the municipalities, they must also start to take responsibility instead of having the little assistance and cash benefits they have today to the government and to the Folketing: that if there is too little money in one place, they complain about the other. So freedom and responsibility belong together around the two, but we are absolutely also constructive and open to looking at this. Then you can tell the finance minister: you can look at it and then lower it, and then you found the money for your consultants, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214124	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then I shall once again make it clear that you are not being told, and certainly not to the Minister. On the other hand, I should like to ask the Minister if he wishes to speak, and the Minister does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214142	Thank you for the comments that have fallen, which are, of course, drawing in a slightly different direction. The purpose of the legislative proposals is to set the concrete levels of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial years 2020 to 2023. As you know, the Budget Act provides for the establishment of a ceiling on expenditure for the new fourth year each year, so that expenditure ceilings are set for a rolling four-year period as a whole. It also follows from the Budget Act that, in specific cases, including the continuation of parliamentary elections and in the context of major reforms or other major changes in state revenue, a draft law amending the current expenditure ceilings may be proposed. It is with this in mind that the government is proposing amended expenditure ceilings, and the expenditure ceilings must support the development of public expenditure in line with the planned and compliance with the fiscal objectives and priorities set out in the medium-term economic plans. The proposed expenditure ceilings reflect the expenditure policy priorities of the 2020 Finance Act and the detailed economic agreements with municipalities and regions for 2020. Thus, expenditure ceilings reflect, among other things, the fact that, in the context of the economic agreements concluded with the municipalities and regions, we have abolished the municipal modernisation and efficiency contribution and the re-prioritisation contribution in the regions. The proposed expenditure ceilings for 2023 have been established in accordance with an updated medium-term projection based on the Government's Financial Bill for 2020. And the proposed expenditure ceilings have been established in accordance with the objective of the structural balance of public finances in 2025. In the context of a future updated medium-term plan setting out the government's overall priorities for economic policy, there will be an opportunity under the Budget Act to submit legislative proposals to amend the existing ceilings. I should like to point out, for the record, that the draft legislation has been submitted in consultation with the deadline of 30 October, and the consultation answers will be sent to the Finance Committee immediately afterwards and will be the basis for the second reading of the legislative proposals. I am, of course, ready to reply subsequently to the various questions that may arise during the committee's reading and, in addition, to take note of the comments made by the various rapporteurs and of the reports made by the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214407	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214410	I promise I'll make it quick. Thank you for the very factual review of this; I just have a quick question for the Minister of Finance. Can the Minister of Finance not see that there are simply some extremely inappropriate ways in which we have put this together? Well, we hear one grotesque example after another... a molded school where it's going to cost 50 percent. more to renovate it than to build a new one, but you have to choose renovation because it is from a different box than if you build a new school. And so there are countless examples in which we are forced into a box thinking that actually makes it significantly more expensive for all of us in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214455	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214459	Of course, I think that attention should be paid to what may be inappropriate in relation to the legislation in force. But it is also important to say that when we have this legislation, it is in order to avoid overheating of the Danish economy and for us to know how much is being spent. This government has actually raised the fixed capital ceiling precisely to allow the municipalities to invest more in buildings, for example, than they have been able to do in the past. And that is why I think it is important to say that what we have put forward here is what we think at present is the most sensible way of dealing with it, but that we are, of course, constantly gaining experience, including from the Danish municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214550	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214553	We know, of course, that the Social Democrats would like to look at the possibility of introducing multiannual budgets. And that is a good thing, it will be a significant step forward in revising the budget law. However, I was wondering whether the Minister for Finance could perhaps reveal a little bit about what the Minister for Finance and the Government are thinking about, in relation to what can be looked at by changes to the Budget Act. Because it has not been possible to hear about it in so many other contexts at least. I myself came up with some ideas about what to look at. And I wonder whether the Minister for Finance can then just reveal what we are thinking in addition to multiannual budgets.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214632	Well, this is the proposal I am making, because I think it is the most sensible. When we then have to look at a review at some point, the government will then come up with what we might have of proposals for changes. However, some of what we have pointed out is also what the rapporteur is bringing up, namely multiannual budgets, which could be an opportunity, for example, to make more sensible planning in the municipalities. And that is one of the considerations we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214657	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214700	Yes, multiannual budgets will be very important. In other words, it should not be the case that there will be inappropriate use of public crowns by rushing to spend the budget at the end of the year in an ineffective and stupid way, because we cannot transfer the money to next year. So multiannual budgets will be very important. However, I also think that in these climate times, when we have to make a rapid green transition and invest in renewable energy and solar cells and other things, it would be good to adopt a positive list saying: we choose this type of investment because we can say that they are particularly beneficial to the climate and the fight against climate change. They can be exempted from the plant ceiling. That's one of the ways to do it that you could look at together with other options. And I do not know whether the Minister for Finance is ready to report here, but I think that there are at least many ways to revise the budget law that make a great deal of sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214754	It's the minister's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214757	As I said, I am not here with any new proposals on how the budget law can be adapted. I put this out because I think it makes sense. And it also reflects the agreements we have made with municipalities and regions. When we then have to revise at some point, one of the discussions that are relevant is, of course, multiannual budgets. There may be others. What we have to bear in mind is that whatever the purpose of a review may be, it helps to create economic growth which also affects a possible overheating. And it is the case that we must always weigh up some things in relation to each other. But all good suggestions are welcome, and it's fine that Enhedslisten is also on the field here.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214845	Then it's mr. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214849	Thank you for that, and thank you for an actually fine review. I would like to pay tribute to that, because it has been wanted, so this was very nuanced. I just got a little confused because the Minister gives the impression that this is something that can be changed. I mean, it's an agreement that's made, and that's why it's not something that can be changed. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214904	What I have put forward here today, I assume, is that the Left too will back up. If, at some point, an updated medium-term plan is to be put forward, then the government will also be able to present some general priorities in economic policy in this area. I hope, then, that there will be support for this in the Folketing. It is, of course, also a discussion with the Left, with which we have an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214932	Sir. Troels Lund Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214934	Yes, indeed, and that may be why it seems quite tragic that we are discussing this here. Because we support this and I would like to go up and take a long lecture on it, but I think I'll spare myself that. It's just more that I think you might as well call a spade a spade. This is something that has been agreed and has to be implemented, and although a legislative proposal is in consultation, it is not the case that the government is going to change something. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022214958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215000	No, our starting point is not to change anything. Our starting point is to implement what we are proposing here, and I understand that Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen backs that up, and I'm glad. I think we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215009	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215014	Then you can discuss whether you really ought to vote on the Finance Act before you make an agreement afterwards, so you know how much money you have. But that is another discussion. But I'd just like to arrest this thing with the multiannual budgets. I would like to say that this is already taking place in a number of municipalities operating with decentralised budgets in the various areas which open up the way for decentralised areas to be able to operate with multiannual budgets. So can the Minister of Finance confirm that there are already multiannual budgets in different municipalities at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215046	I think it is true that there may be an approach in different municipalities which can be planned for several years to come. However, I have also understood that a number of mayors want to have an extended access to multi-year budgets, among other things. There are some advantages of this, and there are some drawbacks to this. But that is one of the discussions that it will be appropriate to take in the future, so that hopefully you can plan in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215119	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen the word? Then I think we should thank the Minister for Finance. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. If no objection is expressed, it shall be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20191022215147	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 23 October 2019 at 10:00. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
