ParlaMint-DK_20190329100032	The meeting is open. Members of the Folketing Christian Langballe (DF) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposals for a resolution on the withdrawal of Danish citizenship of Syrian warriors. B 147). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100059	The debate is open. Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100132	I am very pleased with the broad agreement, supported by all the parties of the Folketing, on a more flexible education system. And with the agreement, we will, of course, strengthen the link between the education system and the labour market. The students will have a long-awaited increase in flexibility in their study programmes, and there are also new opportunities to be able to train later in life with the 1-year academic master's degree programme. We have reached a five-year agreement which is to be discussed annually in progress meetings between the parties to the agreement, because there is no doubt that we are taking on virginity and therefore it is important to have the closest possible follow-up to these matters. I am very pleased that we have all put our hands on the hot plate in order to follow developments. When we look at the individual elements, the Social Democratic Party is very pleased with the extension of the legal requirement up to three years. With this agreement, we give the students an opportunity to get a break or experience the labour market before starting their Master's degree programme. It is also positive that the extension takes place without any conditions. In addition, there has been a great deal of focus on the fastest species bonus of 1.08%, and the abolition of it, I think, is very welcome by the students. This is a real and good decision, as the bonus was instrumental in pushing up the average character of certain courses, which has also helped to create a damaging performance culture in terms of characterization. It is still the main lead to take a 3-year bachelor's degree programme, after which you build upstairs with a 2-year Master's degree. However, with the introduction of the offer of a 1-year academic higher education course on certain courses, there is scope for greater flexibility. And at a time when we are seeing a changing labour market, it is good that you get the opportunity to acquire some additional skills requested, for example. after a number of years on the labour market. It also strengthens the Social Democracy agenda on lifelong learning and the need for flexibility. So if, later in your life, you want to take another 1-year academic education, yes, then you can do it. It is voluntary for universities to provide this training and the universities wishing to offer the 1-year academic master's degree undertake to provide a specific individual guidance effort for potential applicants. The qualifying scheme will be extended to allow a better opportunity to study part-time while combining theory and practice. The last part, which I would like to highlight, is increased flexibility in terms of access requirements. There is now the possibility of differentiated use of admission tests in both quota 1 and quota 2, and the new possibilities also mean that more resource-intensive tasks are transferred to universities. And that is why it is of no use for the government to maintain the two-percent savings in the field of education. It must of course be mentioned, because it is not possible to meet these new ambitions as long as you are placed in an economic straitjacket. So the trees do not grow into the sky, and this bill does not solve in any way the overriding problem we have with savings in educational institutions that lower quality, remove feedback and, incidentally, also reduce guidance on our education programmes. Nor does it remove the educational ceiling. So there are certain things we can still work away to get rid of. However, it is a good agreement that creates more flexibility for universities and individual students. And that is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill as agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100524	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100531	Thanks for a good speech. I just need to hear to be absolutely sure: can one expect that at the moment of the arrival of a government led by the Social Democrats, the re-prioritisation contribution will be 2%. removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100538	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100553	That's it? Thank you, and we'll move on. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100555	Thank you. This bill translates some elements into an agreement that we reached in December in agreement among all parties. It is a series of constructive initiatives that support the flexibility of the education system for the benefit of students. I would just like to give the individual elements a few words on the way if my vote is right. First, there is the academic master's degree programme. It's a 1-year Master's degree. From the Ministry's point of view, it is being sold on a faster path to the labour market. This gives rise to worried comments from some quarters: does it now provide less expensive and poorer education? Will many come out with such a half candidate? Actually, I don't think so. Because I don't think it would be attractive for a lot of people to take it as a direct extension of the bachelor's degree programme. But in the Danish People's Party we believe that it can be really attractive for those who have stopped with a bachelor and after a few years want to supplement, possibly in half time. I am also thinking that academic master's education could be relevant to someone like me. I have a candidate back in 1985, so I can actually take a new Master's degree, and for me it could be attractive to take the 1-year-old to be trained to the level of the day if I were to lose the job in here any minute. But in the first place it also depends entirely on whether the universities are setting up these courses at all, because it is voluntary for them, and we will of course follow this development very closely in the years to come. Then there's the possibility of doing other access tests. I understand that there may be a concern that it becomes unclear how to be admitted. I can also follow those who say that grades are the best assessment parameter we have, and that is why, of course, grades still have to be important. At the same time, however, there is good experience that admission tests can help to ensure that students enter the right degree programmes, and this seems to provide better and faster implementation and less apostasy. There I think we simply need to work on it, and this is a step in the right direction. If, in this way, you can help students not to enter programmes for which they are not really motivated, then it is very good. Then I would like to mention the study start-up test, which is basically an opportunity for educational institutions to check whether they have actually started their training and that they can at least stop those who do not show up at all. That's quite reasonable. Finally, there is the extended legal requirement. It may be said that it is a pity that we are only dealing with it now and with the entry into force of 1 January. After all, there are students who have not dared to wait to sign up for a candidate, and I have talked to several people, where I have of course not been able to promise them that they would be allowed to do so so that they could not sign up. Having said that, however, it is certainly important that we adopt it now so that it can be applied because it is very good. I believe that, especially in combination with a professional candidate, it can be very attractive to look for a bachelor's degree and get some professional experience and then come back and take a candidate or a professional candidate who makes sense in relation to the job and professional experience that has been gained. In the long term, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we need to think much more about lifelong learning than we need to think about having all our educational inputs before starting our working life, and in this context both the legal requirement which in my view may have been longer than the 3 years • and the academic master's education elements that can help to share education throughout working life. In this way I shall give the Danish People's Party's full support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100918	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329100924	Thank you, President. This bill reflects to a large extent the vision that I have for the Danish education sector. It is about freedom, about flexibility and about training for the labour market. In addition, the bill also reflects the Minister's ability to regroup a very, very broad majority or indeed all parties in Parliament, so I do not expect the most heated debate here for the rest of this bill. But it is also very nice to have a little silence before the storm during the coming election campaign. As I said, the draft law will make the education system more flexible. Students can choose whether to read on immediately once they have completed their bachelor's degree, or they can work for up to 3 years before taking their master's degree. This therefore reflects the reality that I think many young people are facing today: that there are many who want to work 1 year, 2 years or 3 years before taking up their candidate. At the same time, we are also opening up a real bachelor labour market, while students are guaranteed a place of work if it is the case that they will return to the books anyway, and that is, of course, positive towards business and it is positive towards students. In addition, as an alternative to the classical 2 year-old candidate, students will in future be able to take a 1-year academic graduation. This is something you see in a lot of countries around the world. During the negotiations I used the London School of Economics, which has some very good 1-year master programs, as an example of where many Danes are going. It is now something that will also be possible in Denmark. In addition, with the bill here, we are addressing the possibility of raising the academic level and strengthening the degree programmes, as universities can better ensure that students are qualified in the future by using admission tests for the bachelor degree programme. This is something with which the University of Southern Denmark has already had great success, and also again something that you use very, very widely, especially in the United States, successfully to ensure that it is the best students you get in. In this way, we ensure that students are motivated and active and that they can actually do what they are expected to do. The last thing I would like to mention is that universities also have easier opportunities to offer education across the national community, and that is why two rapporteurs for the Left stand up here and are very happy: it is the Education Rapporteur and, of course, the Greenland rapporteur. In those words, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101209	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101217	With the proposal here, we are implementing the agreement reached between all the Danish Parliament's parties on flexible university education, in which, to Enhedslisten's great satisfaction, we finally had the bonus scheme abolished for a rapid start of study, i.e. the 1.08 rule. We were very pleased about this, although today it is not the element of the agreement that we have to transpose into legislation. In the Enhedslisten we welcome the fact that the bill extends the legal requirements of academic bachelors on admission to a Master's degree programme, which is a natural extension to their bachelor's degree programme, so that the legal requirement will no longer apply only to admission immediately following the bachelor's degree programme, but will be extended to 3 years after the student has completed his first 3 years. It is very good that we will have greater flexibility so that the individual can interrupt an academic training course in order to take a period of work during which to test the professional knowledge acquired during the first three years of training. It is a fine addition to the possibilities already available in the form of different forms of internship, courses with a foreign residence etc. It has been important for us that there are no conditions attached to the extension of the legal requirement. We would therefore also have liked to have missed the authorisation given to the Minister to add conditions to the legal requirement at a later stage, and I would therefore like to stress that we have noted that the Minister has indicated that conditions for the application of the legal requirement can be laid down if we agree on the conditions in the contract circle. With regard to the one-year academic master's degree programme, we have noted that several of the consultations are, I think, extremely reserved. A number of people doubt the need for the new Master's degree programme, and concern is expressed that because of the rules on the limitation of dual education, some students risk being cut off from completing the two-year Master's degree programme, which would otherwise have significantly improved them, not least in relation to subsequent employment opportunities. We in the Enhedslist can well follow the concern, which is why I would also like to say that we will very closely monitor the impact of the introduction of the new superstructure training and bring it up in the contract circle if the legislation proves to have unintended and inappropriate consequences. As far as the whole problem of limiting dual education is concerned, it is our hope that very soon a majority will emerge in this Parliament, which will make the ceiling for education a chapter in the history of our education. As I mentioned at the outset, the Enhedslisten is part of the contract circle behind the agreement on flexible university education, which is why we will of course vote in favour of the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101537	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101543	Thank you for the floor. After all, all the many fine things about Bill L 201 have already been examined by several rapporteurs, so I shall not repeat what they have said, but just join in with it. But I think we could talk a little louder about the particularly fine thing about Bill 201, which nobody has mentioned. That is why I will allow myself to do so, and that is why, shortly before Christmas, the parties of the Folketing decided quietly to embark on dismantling parts of the progress reform and liberalising the university sector. It is very good and in many ways the way forward that universities can gain more autonomy and that university liberalisation can take place. So, of course, we support Bill 201. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101651	Thank you. We move on to the alternative, but the rapporteur is not here, and then we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329101705	As you know, we also support the draft law in the Radical Left, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Alternative and say that they do. I'm really happy about this bill, and I am, and I can't help saying it because it was a job I started in 2015, when I proposed an extension of the legal requirement. Now we're in 2019 and now it's coming, and it's only because this minister has taken it on and carried it through. So it's really, really well done. It took a little too long, but now it is here and it is good that we have some more flexibility in higher education. Hopefully, this will also lead to a much more fundamental discussion. I know that the Minister and, incidentally, many rapporteurs are interested in the future of how we will have a training sector that will be able to train for the rest of our lives. We have proposed the introduction of your education account; that we should all have an education account on the day we start on the labour market, just as when we introduced the occupational pension, and that we actually set out that education is part of life, just as work is most of life, and that it is not necessarily, and certainly not as much, as it is today, that you are training first, and then you work, and then you stop again. The world does not need that, and our Danish society does not need it at all. On the contrary, we need to get out and into work and training sometimes at the same time, other times in periods separately and far, much more flexible. This is probably a first step, but actually only a first step for us to really think it much more openly. So I'm really glad about that. I share the same concern as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned, but I also feel confident, at least by this minister, that it is a conciliation group that will be called in and sworn in as well as in the text if things are changed. So I hope we keep each other up, that's how it is. Now all we have to do is abolish the massive savings that have been rolled out over the education sector. Because this is also about being able to deliver high-quality education, and we cannot continue to do so if these savings continue to amount to 6 billion. kr. in higher education only. It's too much. We have to go the opposite way, but there we have to have a choice before we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102000	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102010	Education should not be about hurrying. Education must be about becoming smarter, education must be about immersing itself, education must be about meeting new people, education is education, education is liberating, and therefore the focus that has been in Danish politics is that you have to hurry through your education, and that speed is a quality, been a wrong political focus, and I think the best thing about this agreement is that you really change the focus now and say that education is not speed, education is about time for immersion, education is about seeing the world, education is about being creative with other people in a study environment that is great to be in. The character bonus is abolished, i.e.: that you no longer send the signal from inside Christiansborg that it is necessarily a good idea to start a higher education course within 2 years. Why is it just two years that should be the right time to start. If you need three years, take it. If you need to start right after youth education, do it. If you need to see the world, see the world. If you need to see Aalborg KU or Roskilde University right after high school, do so. It is not Christiansborg who has to decide. It's the kids themselves. That is why it is good to abolish the character bonus, which has also contributed to artificially pumping up the characters. Then you start a job to look at the recording system. It's really important. If you want to do away with the very big focus on grades, the most important thing is to change the very large weight of grades in our recording system. So looking at how grades can fill less in the recording system is really important. Then you expand the legal requirement. It is also about giving time to see the world, time to become smarter, time to get your skills tested off in the labour market. When you finish your bachelor's degree, you can now go out and do the things you think are exciting, be gone for 3 years and still know that on the education you went on there is a place when you come back. Then you start work to strengthen the study environments around the programmes. We know that if you're going to maintain students and if they're going to be okay, it's gonna take good study environments. So focusing on it is really important. There are some things that are missing and that I'm sure would be gone if I were standing here in a year. At least we'll work hard on that in the SF. It is the elimination of the huge savings of billions. I have noted that the government's government basis is called a freer, richer, and I also believe a secure Denmark, and I am one of those who believe that wealth is created by the fact that one's citizens are well educated and therefore it makes absolutely no sense to save billions on education. Finally, I am also sure that we will have the ceiling on education abolished. The educational ceiling is, in fact, exactly the opposite of the thinking behind this proposal. It's inflexible. It's about making the right choice the first time. It's about not making mistakes. That is why the education ceiling must be abolished, and I am sure we will succeed in that too. So it's a really good deal that SF backs up and that we've been fighting for too long.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102338	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102346	Thank you for that, President. In the Conservative People's Party, we are also very pleased that we are today implementing parts of the agreement we reached this winter on more flexible university education. Today we are discussing a draft law that will translate four elements of the agreement: extension of the legal requirement, a new 1-year academic master's degree programme, the possibility of applying study start-ups to Master's degree programmes and more flexible use of admission tests. In the Conservative People's Party, we are particularly pleased that we are now extending the legal requirement to three years. It gives better opportunity for students to enter the labour market after their bachelor's degree programme, try the training of at their job and then subsequently return to the university to build on what they learned out in the real world. We believe that it is wise to create better synergies and more natural transitions between study life and the labour market. Both students and the business community benefit from this. We are also very pleased that universities are now being given the opportunity to offer one-year higher education programmes. The training courses must be pre-qualified and it must be ensured that the new training courses are both relevant to the labour market and that they meet a need in the overall supply of training. As far as possible, we must avoid educating people for unemployment, and therefore there must also be positive indications from relevant customers who might be interested in hiring the graduates from the 1-year higher education programmes. This is really important, for almost 50%. of all those who fall from the studies point to the fact that lack of job prospects is crucial to their apostasy. The two-year Master's degree programme must continue to be the main route at our universities, and it is certainly not intended that students with this one-year Master's degree programme should be pressured to be completed more quickly. The point is not that we should train less, on the contrary. The 1-year alternative is relevant to academic bachelors who want a more affordable way back to university after they have worked after their bachelor, and then it is an alternative to those who know that they will never get through a 2-year Master's degree. I personally know a lot of people from my period of study who never finished the two-year Master's degree programme they started. Some actually came a very good piece, they also learned a lot, they just never got any paper on it. And that's a shame, both for the students and for our society. In addition, academic higher education must also support increased lifelong learning, where university graduates will also have the opportunity later in their lives to be able to further train themselves. Finally, as Conservative rapporteur for Greenland and the Faroe Islands, I would also like to point out that I think it is very positive that we are now creating a better legal basis for education, where parts of the teaching for professional reasons take place either in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands. It makes very good sense that parts of the training courses aimed at Arctic regions also take place there. In conclusion, I would like to thank the parties for a very good course of negotiations. Thank you to the Minister for facilitating it and so thank you for a very good deal. I know that there are very many students who are following the timetable for dealing with this bill very, very closely. Of course, they want to be sure that they also have this legal requirement. So I hope that we can jointly deal with the bill quickly and smoothly. I think the students will appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102753	Thank you. Then it's the minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329102804	Thank you, Mr President. This is so nice. Thank you to all the parties of the Folketing for supporting this bill. I am really pleased with the political agreement behind this proposal. It is because it has confirmed me in something I also thought 11 months ago, namely that politics works, that we in the Folketing can actually make a difference when we work together and are also prepared to stretch a little to get the ends to meet. As new in politics, it has been an amazing experience to see it, so many thanks to all parties for it. This bill is a first important step towards a more flexible education system that offers both more freedom and more opportunities for students in our universities. I am convinced that this will make a whole real difference, and it is my hope that it can be the start of an education system where you can return continuously and fill new knowledge on lifelong learning and an education system where you can better exchange between study and work so that there is a better connection between theory and practice. And I think that in the end we will have better graduates if you can constantly test your skills out in the real world. Then you become aware of what skills you lack and learn to use your knowledge to solve a problem outside the university walls. The Kerne of this bill, which we have debated today, is, as several have also mentioned, the extension of the so-called legal requirement. This will give our bachelors the opportunity to stop after their bachelor education and come out and try out the labour market while at the same time being guaranteed a place at the university when they want to return and read a master's degree programme. I hope that many of the young people will seize the opportunity, but I think they will only seize the opportunity, as the Conservative rapporteur also said, if they are sure that some companies will also hire them. To help a little with that cultural change, we have actually been out trying to get some companies to say that they want to do that with a bachelor's vow. In fact, more than 100 Danish companies, including some of the big ones, have said yes to that, they want to, and within the next few days we can publish the list of what they are for some companies, so we can send a signal that we are not just sitting in here at Christiansborg and making the law about, there is also a change of culture in reality. The bill also allows universities to offer an entirely new 1-year research-based academic master's degree programme. This is to be seen as a supplement to the existing Master's degree programme, which we still expect to be the main route, and also a supplement to the part-time vocational master's degree programme, which we are also in the process of rolling out even more places. Besides this work, we in the Ministry are also engaged in a very, very important dialogue with universities on how to give more flexibility when you have read a bachelor's degree, in relation to which professionalism you then choose on your Master's degree programme, so that we get more interdisciplinaryity and can combine more across. Overall, I think that these changes that we are setting in motion with this bill provide more ways through the education system, so that everyone no longer has to fit in the same box, where they always read 5 years in line with the same degree programme on the bachelor's degree and the master's degree and do not look back once they have graduated. The proposal also allows universities to apply study start-up examinations to Master's degree programmes, as well as allowing them more flexibility in the use of admission tests. This is not one of the reasons for the second discussion that we would also like to launch on a new recording system, where there is indeed a hearing here at Christiansborg on Monday, but it is also a start to more flexibility in relation to it. So, overall, there are a number of initiatives that give universities more flexibility and students more flexibility. The debate here and the comments that have been made by the rapporteurs have confirmed to me that we are united in this important step towards a slightly different direction in our education system, where students are more able to choose what they want. So I look forward to further discussion and hope that we can get this adopted so that we can say: that is the way it is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329103204	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329103220	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329103238	The bill here concerns the patient compensation, and the Social Democratic Party supports the bill with the three elements in it. And so does the SF. It was a greeting from the SF. It is the case that the patient's replacement exists, so that if there is something that goes wrong in our healthcare system, our healthcare system, and it can be demonstrated that something has not gone as it should, yes, then patients have the opportunity to seek compensation. There is an element in the legislation called the resource rule, and the resource rule is about the fact that if there has been an error, but it can be justified by the fact that there have been resource problems it may be financial, but it may also be staff-related, then the decision in relation to the patient compensation can limit or relax the liability that health care or health professionals would otherwise have. We have an example, and it is on the basis of this that the draft law has been tabled here. This is at least how I can read it from the description of the proposal, because back in 2015 there was an episode in which 22 women were refused compensation which had been sought on the basis that they had not been called for cancer screening in due time, as the screening programme in Denmark says. In this case, compensation was refused on the basis of precisely the rule called the resource rule. And this is now being dealt with in this bill, and we in the Social Democratic Party think it is really, really good. However, I would like to say on this point, and I would like us to have a discussion with the Minister about the third reading................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And there I think that, in order to make our legislation more flexible here in the Folketing, we could well introduce new screening programmes, so that we do not necessarily have to make legislative changes because it is so firm. We have also noted from the Socialist side that the Ethnic Council, in their response to the hearing, expresses the view that this is also a matter of priority in the field of health care, and the Ethnic Council has focused on precisely those elements, including the presentation of opinions on it. We take note of it in the Social Democratic Party. A third thing I would like to mention here in connection with the very rule of resources is that of course we must also take responsibility here in the Danish Parliament for the fact that there are enough resources, that there are enough staff to follow the screening programmes that we have decided politically. And that is why it is not just a question of being able to pass on the monkey, but that we politicians here at Christiansborg, who set the framework for at least what is the regional economy, are also aware that there must be sufficient resources to solve the tasks in the responsible and right way and on time. Another element of the legislation we are dealing with here is that there is an exemption in relation to specialist dentists and their claims in relation to the cost of appeals and compensation proceedings. This is an adjustment, according to the law we adopted last year in this area, and we also support that from the Socialist side. The last and third element of the amendment to the law here is that patients who have been given medicines from vessels, rescue vessels, emergency shelters, the military, can also now be compensated if there are proven errors in the medicines that are here and where patients, the citizens may be in an emergency and therefore have no other option than to have it handed over from these places. Overall, it is a legislative proposal that corrects three elements that make very good sense. And, as I said, the Social Democracy and the SF support the bill as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329103711	Then we move on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329103719	We pride ourselves in Denmark on having perhaps the world's best patient rights. We have investigation guarantees, we have screening programmes, we have waiting-time guarantees, and that is, of course, something that must be respected. Otherwise, it did not matter how much we stand in here and pass a lot of laws or that the Minister for Health makes economic agreements with the regions. We have decided in here that we have some screening programmes to find some of the many people who are unfortunately suffering from cancer, and there are some guidelines that make it necessary to convene a specific time. Unfortunately, there have been a few regions over the years which have not complied with the time agreement that has been made. In the latter case, the Capital Region went out and said it was due to a lack of resources. I believe, first of all, that it might have been possible to use something private if it was because you did not have the resources yourself, because it is present and, secondly, that the excuse is a little far away from the agreement that has been made with the Minister for Health. There was one of them who unfortunately had cancer, then ran a case against the Capital Region. Unfortunately, she lost because the Capital Region obviously could use lack of resources as an excuse for failing to fulfil her obligation. Then I think that if, because of a lack of resources, we can reject all the agreements we have made, the laws we pass in here are not worth the paper on which they are written. That is why we also welcome the law, so that we ensure that when we have created rights for citizens, there must also be a liability if they are not respected. That is why we can only agree with the draft law and also to do so in relation to other forms of cancer, but I would also agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that new screening programmes could be written in the future, because hopefully we will have more screening programmes in the future. At least that's what it looks like. So it might be possible to add them. But this is all about the future. What is happening to those who are There are also several who have asked questions about in the consultation answers, and these are some of the things I want to ask questions about, because what will it cost to do so retroactively? What will it mean, and is it something that can be done? These are some of the questions that I will take into account in the committee's proceedings. One of the other things proposed is to exempt specialist dentists from the requirement to bear the costs of appeals and compensation proceedings. It was according to legislation that we made last year that they had gotten into a mess like that here, and that's where you straighten it back in. We think that is very good too. The latter is to extend the scope of patient replacement to include drugs coming from a medicine chest. A medicine chest is a medicine box stored in maritime vessels and liferafts etc. So we can fully support that. However, as I said, we have some questions about cancer and compensation for late screening, so we take this into account in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104121	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blix. And we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104128	Thank you for the floor, President. Let me say straight away that I was actually so happy when I read the Cancer Responses to the Bill here. Because we in the Left are in complete agreement. It is simply unreasonable for the regions to be able to invoke a lack of resources as an excuse for failing to comply with a statutory right of patients, namely a call for screening for breast cancer. The same applies to screenings for cervical cancer, cancer of the colon and rectum. It is quite obvious that as a citizen of Denmark, you can risk going around with undiscovered cancer because the regions have not called for screening in good time, and then you will not be able to seek compensation if you experience damage because the regions have failed. The regions must and must respect statutory patient rights and there must be the possibility of seeking compensation if the regions fail. Unfortunately, it all too often happens that patients are abandoned. Just think of August 17, 2017, where you could read the following in a press release from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Elderly:... in recent months, there have been a number of worrying reports from the regions, not least from the Capital Region, in relation to the challenges of meeting the maximum waiting times. ▪ Or on March 2, 2019, where we could read in Berlingske Tidende: Women with breast cancer wait longer for treatment in the Capital Region than in the rest of the country, and breast cancer is not the only problem. The Danish Health Authority wants the Capital Region to explain why it generally lags behind the so-called cancer seasons. ▪ No, it is not acceptable for Danish patients to be abandoned in the regions. For the sake of Danish patients, we need more uniformity, so neither cancer treatment nor other treatments will be purely postcode lottery. We in the Left are incredibly pleased with the proposal for health reform that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has put forward. Because the proposal will strengthen patients' rights, and we need this, also in order to overcome social inequality in health. However, the draft law here contains several elements. Another element is about the specialist dentists who have ended up in an inappropriate situation after we introduced a special law in June 2018 to ensure that Danish dental patients continue to receive dental treatment. With the bill here, we exempt the specialist dentists from the requirement to pay the costs of complaints and damages, simply because specialist dental practitioners in orthodontic medicine and dental, oral and jaw surgeons do not provide services with regional grants. With the bill here, we will return to the previous legal situation from before 1 June 2018 with regard to the specialist dentists, where the regions paid for the costs of complaints and compensation cases. The last part of the bill is about ship coffins or medical coffins and medicines for use in emergency situations. Here too, however, the legislation adopted has proved inappropriate, since we gave private pharmacies the opportunity to produce medicines for these tools. Inappropriateness lies in the fact that drug damage caused by the use of medicinal products for example. emergency or emergency situations, made by private pharmacies, are not part of the replacement complex of the Patient Compensation Scheme. And now we are correcting that injustice. The Left can support the bill as presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104515	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104524	In the absence of our health rapporteur, I must say that Enhedslisten considers it extremely important that the Danish Parliament should act in the light of the quite unreasonable situation in which a number of women have been brought because they were not given the offer of screening for breast cancer to which they were entitled. Although some of the women concerned developed breast cancer, the patient replacement assessed that the Capital Region could not incur liability and last year the Supreme Court confirmed that the region was not obliged to compensate women. This happened with reference to the so-called resource rule that we are discussing today. The resource angel means that a region with reference to resources can avoid paying compensation to patients who are injured as a result of the fact that the region does not meet its obligations in relation to the treatment guarantees. With this proposal, patients will be able to obtain compensation in the future in this situation, but, as other rapporteurs have already noted, it is only special groups of patients who are exempt from the resource rule, namely those who are injured as a result of lack of screening studies for breast cancer, cervical cancer and colon and rectum cancer. To this extent, we agree with the Ethical Council that it may be a little unfortunate and strange that the draft law only covers specific groups of patients and that it can be seen as an expression of discrimination when the possibility of granting compensation depends on the disease one has and when special guarantees are attached to diseases where private providers offer large-scale screenings. Having said that, we consider it extremely important that we strive to ensure that women are protected from breast cancer as best we can. It is very good that we have introduced the screening programme, and it is of course no use that there are women who do not get the offer anyway and then have to find that they cannot be compensated when they become ill. In the Enhedslisten, we would like to see the possibility given that the regions could apply in advance for a derogation from compliance with a treatment guarantee if they could say in advance that there are no resources to carry out the task, or that priority would be given to staff for vital interventions rather than to other tasks if there were a shortage of staff. After all, time and again we hear from health workers that there is no match between the number of employees and the tasks to be carried out. It is a rush, it is a risk of error, and the regions must therefore be given the opportunity to say that in practice it is not possible to meet the requirements of the Folketing, and then we in the Folketing must be obliged to find solutions, because that is a shared responsibility. That is why we will be tabling an amendment to the draft law which allows the regions to apply for a derogation from the treatment guarantee on the basis of the same criteria which are today the basis of the resource rule. I would like to welcome our health rapporteur, Peder Hvelplund, and say that he is looking forward to further discussion of the amendment we are putting forward in the forthcoming committee work, and I will say that the Enhedslisten can support the bill. I should also like to welcome the alternative and say that they can support the proposal accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104912	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl. No, I'm sorry. In these gender-neutral times, I say here instead to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329104923	Thank you. As it is now, patients who are not called in on time for breast cancer screening are not entitled to compensation if the delay or absence from the call is due to a lack of resources. So even if you later get breast cancer and it is estimated that breast cancer could have been avoided if you had been screened on time, you will not be compensated if the regions can say that it is due to a lack of resources and according to Article 20 of the Law on Complaints and Compensation, where you are exempted from compensation if you have a lack of staff or economy. That is simply not fair, and the government is therefore proposing that this rule of resources cannot be applied to delayed calls for screening for breast cancer, cervical cancer, colon cancer and rectum cancer. For the same reason, it is proposed at the same time that the same right be introduced for testing for cervical and colon cancer and rectum cancer as for breast cancer. Another element of the bill is that dentists who have chosen to be outside the emergency law, which was adopted at the termination of the agreement on dental care on 1 June 2018, must themselves bear the costs of any appeal proceedings. Since specialist dental practitioners do not normally provide services with public subsidies, the only reasonable thing is of course that they should be exempted from the requirement to bear the costs of the appeals and compensation proceedings. We must, of course, return to the legal situation that was in force before 1 June 2018. The third and final element is that the rules on drug damage in the law on complaints and compensation are extended to medicinal products from so-called medical caskets in lifeboats, tools and military defences. It is also very natural and self-evident, so the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105127	Thank you. Then we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105134	Thank you for that, President. This bill is about compensation and that you should also be able to get compensation if you have been called late for screening for breast cancer, cervical cancer and colon cancer. And that sounds right and good and, as several other rapporteurs have said, there are a number of women who think they have been treated unfairly. But we also have to raise the question of where the money should come from. If we read in the consultation answers, the Danish Quality Database Steering Group for Mammography Screening, the Danish Association for Radiological Mamma Diagnostics, the medical members of the Mammography Steering Group in the capital and the Ethical Council say three things that I think are essential to highlight. First of all, this is a poor priority for health professionals. Secondly, that there are not enough medical specialists to ensure that you can always check sick and healthy within the time limit, and thirdly, that this could lead to taking resources from sick women. In the Radical Left we are in favour of a priority institute in Denmark. And it is because we think it is wrong that today there is a very high priority, which is unfair and hidden, and which should be open and fair. What is of course a priority is that it is easy to say the fine words, but when it hits reality, it becomes serious. And here is one of the examples in which we, as legislators, are faced with the fact that if we do this, we will move resources from those who are more ill. That is why we are going to go to this bill with some scepticism on the part of the Radical Left, and we are going to ask questions in relation to the consultation answers that have come. Because I need to know how the government reacts to the criticism that has been raised, namely that this is going to shift resources from women who are more ill. So, with these comments, we cannot support the draft law as it stands, but we will be asking a number of questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105355	Thank you. There are no comments. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105401	Thank you. I come here a little like the raisin in the sausage end of a bill that, fortunately, is very, very broad support for. My colleague Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen has explained very well the various elements of the draft law, and I will not go into the parts relating to the specialist dentists or medical coffins, which Mrs Jane Heitmann and Mrs Liselott Blixt also gave a full account of. These are some very fine minor adjustments to the law on complaints and compensation, which we also support. I will try to focus on the part that is about this with the resource rule, also slightly in the light of what Mrs Lotte Rod mentioned in her speech. I was a politician in the Capital Region when we had this terrible case, which several people have mentioned, and I was also one of the responsible politicians in the cancer committee responsible for the cancer screenings. What took place at the time was not a political position. We politicians were informed when there had been a failure when times had passed. We were not given the opportunity to react. It was bad planning. We were not given the opportunity to decide whether to move around resources to enable these women to be called in in time. No, we were informed when the failure had occurred. That is why I was extremely frustrated as a politician when I heard that the administration intended to invoke this rule of resources, because it was simply not correct. This was not a political priority; it was an administrative failure that the demographic projections had not been properly made and therefore had no control over having these women called in in time. That's why I thought it was a huge system failure to invoke this resource rule. That's why I'm really glad we're gonna change it now with this bill. I think it screams to heaven that what has happened is unfair and I think Mrs Liselott Blixt put it so precisely when she said that the legislation we adopt in here is not worth the paper on which it is written if it is not complied with in the hospitals and out in the regions where it really applies. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party can support all the elements of this proposal, and we welcome the fact that swift action has been taken against the backdrop of, among other things. the decision that was made in the Supreme Court in this area. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105646	There is a brief comment. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105648	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur if we now have a first-hand witness here to what happened in the Capital Region: when the rapporteur now says that it was administrative, it was decided that resources should be used as they were and that it was not put on a political table, was it put on a political table whether or not the resource rule should be applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105713	I know that the administration had not decided that the deadlines for the call would not be met. It was something that happened because one was not sufficiently vigilant in relation to it and kept an eye on the deadlines that were and because, moreover, it had been planned in a way that used the window that is to the utmost. It is not exactly 2 years that must pass, it is such a thing with up to 2.2, or it is 2.3, and vice versa it is also down to 1.8, as far as I remember. There is a buckle, it can lie within where one lay most extremely. With regard to the resource rule, I would say that no, it was not a political decision that we invoked it. That was the opinion of the administration, and we could not overrule that politically. We could not judge that; it was not a political option.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105759	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105800	I think that sounds very, very strange. The rapporteur says that it is the administration of a region that decides how to stop and how to deal with things overall. That's not how I see it. I see it as if the Regional Council has the supreme authority to decide, including in cases such as these, how the regulatory framework is to be applied and whether to apply the resource rule. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105836	At any rate, I note that the process was as it was then in the Capital Region. And I don't think so either, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen's party colleague Mrs Sophie Hæstorp Andersen wants to say that this was a political decision, because it was not. This was the assessment we received from the administration: this was a question of resource shortages and therefore it was not possible to live up to it. Since I stopped in the region, there's been the whole legal after-play. There I dare not judge what political decisions have been made. But I can say that when I was in the situation at the time, it was an administrative assessment that we politicians could not ignore. So it wasn't a political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105913	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329105925	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their support for the draft law in general terms. Many things have been said which I will not repeat, but I would just like to emphasise that we have put forward this legislative proposal to amend the law, because we want to ensure that patients who are not called in on time for the cancer screenings that we have decided to implement and for which we have allocated resources will also be able to receive compensation if they are injured as a result of a delayed call. It is also to ensure that what we have seen has not happened again in the cases on which there has also just been a dialogue between the Conservative rapporteur and the Socialist rapporteur, namely that women with breast cancer were cut off from trial because they were called too late for breast cancer screening and the region invoked the resource rule. We also ensure that patients who may be called late for screening for cervical and intestinal cancer are given the same right and, as I heard the Socialists, they came up with a proposal to consider a legal basis in the bill; otherwise, it is usually the case that you restrict the provisions, but I understand the reasoning in relation to it. You just need to know that the bill's economy is in line with the existing screening programmes, for which the economy has been allocated. So as long as we are aware of this, I think that this is something that we can clarify in committee. Basically, the principle is that the regions should not be able to invoke the so-called resource rule in order to avoid liability when it comes to poor planning, and certainly not when we talk about areas where we have very clear rights and to which we have already allocated the economy. That is why I cannot follow the comments made by the radical rapporteur, in relation to taking money from other areas, because we are talking about patients' rights, and the economy has already been set aside to ensure the screening programmes and even to ensure that there is a spread. Because, as the Conservative rapporteur said, it is not the case that it is exactly 2 years and on the exact date. There's a span of plus/minus 3 months. In other words, there are six months. So, for six months, in the specific cases discussed around the Capital Region, it was possible to plan this in such a way that the patients' rights enjoyed by citizens were respected. That is why I think it is quite appropriate that we should also make it very clear that poor administration and planning should not give rise to the possibility of simply relying on the rule of resources. We also change, as several of you have pointed out, the law in relation to specialist dentists, so that they do not have to bear the costs of complaints and claims. It is a place where it has to be said that it has never been the intention for the specialist dentists to bear the costs. However, this is one of the points that has only been seen after we made our joint agreements in connection with the law which came into force on 1 June last year when the agreement between Danske Regions and the Dentist Association on dental care had been terminated. That is what we are putting right now, so that we return to the previous legal situation, where it was also the regions that incurred the expenditure. The third element of the bill is then an extension of the scope of patient compensation, which relates precisely to the bill on ship coffins, which we have dealt with in a previous collection. This means that patients who, after taking a medicine from a medical coffin in a life-raft, suffer damage due to the properties of the drug are also given the opportunity to obtain compensation. So I really think that this is a natural consequence of the other enlargements we have made, both of the replacement legislation, but also of the legislation we made about ship chests. I could understand that the Enhedslisten wants to table an amendment which would undermine patients' rights. After all, I have not seen the specific amendment, but I can just say in principle that the government does not want to support a deterioration in patients' rights. On the contrary, we want to strengthen patients' rights, and that is exactly what we have agreed with the Danish People's Party in connection with the agreement on the health reform that was reached on Tuesday, namely that we strengthen patients' rights in Denmark. That is why I also believe that, unless it is a completely different amendment which should have some good intentions, I can immediately just say to Enhedslisten's comments that the government does not support a deterioration in patients' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110412	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor, but it just came a little late. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110418	All I have to say is that now my colleague Mr. Peder Hvelplund bring it into the proceedings of the committee, but what we intend to do with the amendment is to clarify and deal with the problem that there is no consistency between the tasks of hospitals and the resources made available with the poor economy. So our business is not to undermine patients' rights, but to ensure that there are sufficient resources for our hospital services to carry out the tasks that the legislation imposes on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110453	Thank you. As I also said at the outset, resources have been allocated to precisely the screening programmes that we are talking about today with the draft law. After all, we have set aside money for them, as well as we have lifted the economy of health care every year, we have been in government, so we have now lifted the health economy alone by more than 6 billion. kr. since the last election. If we take it back to the turn of the millennium, there has been real growth of 40%. in health care in Denmark. And that is why I have to say that, of course, there must be an economy for the tasks that we impose on health care, and that has also been the case in the specific cases where the economy was specifically set aside to meet the screening programmes that we have introduced legislatively. But that is something we have to take in committee. In principle, the government does not support the deterioration of patients' rights. We want to strengthen them, but of course I will make myself available for any questions that may be raised in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110543	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110555	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329110619	Thank you. Students' right to absence from teaching is a hot topic at the moment, and the left seems to want to take the lead in the fight to secure this right. That is why the alternative has tabled motion for a resolution B 89, which deals with giving pupils in youth education legal absence for certain activities. We in the government do not think this is a good idea, and let me explain why. We can actually say this in four words: professionalism, community, respect and character formation. If you have absenteeism and thereby miss out on teaching, your professional development is by its very nature affected. You will find it difficult to keep up, and you will fare worse for the exam. When you enroll in a youth education, you also register in a community, and a community is characterised by participation and commitment in it. Every day in high schools and vocational schools there are teachers who have prepared themselves to deliver a good education, and it is a lack of respect if one fails to do so. Then it is also part of growing up that one learns step by step to meet on time and take responsibility for one's own life and future. The absence of upper secondary education is too high. On stx and hf it is with the latest figures of 9.1 per cent, and on vocational secondary education it is 8.7 per cent, and on the vuc it is as high as 21.9%. The percentages are, of course, an expression of differences between the institutions, but overall it does not call for us to grant the right to further absenteeism. The Government cannot therefore support the alternative resolution. The proposal requires the government to change the rules for absenteeism in youth education so that the participation and involvement of pupils in society are not taken into account as absenteeism in the student's overall absenteeism statistics. Students should be able to have up to 10 school days per year. school years not taken into account as absenteeism if the pupil can demonstrate that the reason for the absence is participation in community-engagement work. The proposal shall state the reasons on which it is based, inter alia: that social engagement is the foundation of our society and that the committed people are the basis of our democracy. I agree with the latter. It is good and healthy for young people to engage in civil society and democracy. I can only back that up. And this can, as a rule, take place outside the scheduled school hours. Whatever the case, it is not a good solution to introduce a right to absenteeism that makes the school year up to 10 days shorter. It's not irrelevant what you as a student get out of those 10 days. The rules on absenteeism in the secondary and vocational education and training sectors vary considerably. However, it is common for all absences to be recorded. In vocational training, the registration of absenteeism is already divided into legal and illegal absences. It is up to each vocational school to determine what is legal and illegal absenteeism, but the rules typically follow the existing agreements. In the upper secondary school area, there was previously a centrally fixed absence limit of 10%. The problem with such a limit is that it is perceived by many students as a right to a certain share of absence. That is why the unemployment limit was abolished in 2005, and last year new rules on absenteeism came into force in high schools. What is new in these rules is that everyone now has to register in the same way, which means that when a student is late for class or does not show up, absences must be recorded for whatever reason. And then it is the case that the principal of the school individually assesses whether a student's absence gives rise to sanctions. Participation in association, voluntary work and political activities is for me to see something that can take place as a starting point outside teaching time. I agree that we do not show enough recognition in terms of participation in volunteering and in terms of social engagement, and here we can benefit from inspiration from other countries. In many states in the United States, for example, high school students are even encouraged to do volunteer work and, as a special recognition, this commitment is written on students' diplomas. I think we can begin to recognise students' participation in voluntary activities to a greater extent in Denmark. It is for me to see a better solution than giving a right to absenteeism when we know that it is important for the pupils to participate and get the professional benefit. The government does not want to give the green light for absenteeism, although we support the intention to get more young people to engage in society, and therefore we cannot support the alternative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111117	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111121	Thank you, and thank you for a fine speech. Now the Minister says that there are four words that tell why this is not working: professionalism, community, respect and character, as far as I heard them and managed to record them. Can the Minister see that this can be completely reversed? Professionality is the professionality one acquires when one is out in real life and acquires experience in socially useful work. The Community is the Community we have, for example. in a demonstration, or others, you really cooperate with. Respect is respect for the community. It is to show respect for those who may be helped in volunteering, and with regard to character, the Minister does not think that it might improve the grades, that one gets some real experience of comparing or putting one's theoretical experience into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111205	Thank you. Just to take one misunderstanding, I said character formation. It's not the same as character. Characterization is, of course, about the fact that when you go to a youth education, you are growing up. One moves from a level where one has had adults who took care of one's overall professionality and development, to quietly taking responsibility for one's own life. This character formation is also about the fact that in all communities and contexts there is something to live up to, for example, to show up for the lessons. So that's what I mean by character formation. On this subject of professionalism, I would say that if you are to learn to speak German, or if you are to learn the professional skills of chemistry, you are doing so by being present in the classes, and then other important things can easily take place that, as a starting point, must take place outside the classes, but you are not learning your chemistry by participating in association life, although participating in association life may be very relevant to your versatile development.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111319	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111321	Now I understood from the Minister that this was about character formation. Does the Minister think that education takes place better in a school with teachers and pupils than it does in the real world, where you meet many more different people, where you meet many more challenges, where what you are in is reality? Can the Minister not agree with me that character formation is precisely something that is better acquired in the real world in the situations where you work in genuine communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111401	Thank you, and here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111403	I believe that youth education is also a reality. They are very much part of the reality of youth, and they contribute to the formation, character formation, communities of young people. They can also get some of that by participating in civil society. I hope that I made it very clear in my speech that there is certainly a value there, which I think we can recognise even more, but that does not change the fact that we in the government think it is a bad idea to say to the students that it is okay that they stay away from 10 days of professional education that they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111435	Thank you. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111439	I would like to ask the Minister how she thinks it is going to go beyond the character formation if some of the young people who are sitting up here listening in the Folketing right now, in a moment when there is a parliamentary election, going out and taking part in the election campaign, are around for election events, conducting campaigns, sitting in panels and discussing politics. How on earth do they suffer from their character formation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111503	I would ask you not to bring listeners into the debate. I think that we have turned it around a few times before in this Chamber, even in relation to the same rapporteur, so please do not do so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111513	As I said in my speech, I think it is very good that young people are involved in civil society and political debate. I made that very clear in my speech; I think it is really, really good. But that does not change the fact that if you lack 10 days of teaching, there will be some professional gaps that are difficult to pick up, and that is why I think it is a good idea to recognise civil society participation, for example. to look at what they do in other countries. Could you imagine, if you take responsibility in civil society, that you might even write it on your diploma? I think that would be interesting to have a debate on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111604	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111606	In his speech, however, the Minister said that it would be detrimental to the character of pupils if they were out to campaign instead of attending classes. That is why I would just like to ask once again: what is the effect on the character of pupils that they sit in a panel discussing politics during the election campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111627	That's not what I said. I think it is a pity to put things in my mouth that I have not said. That's definitely not what I said. I think we should debate the differences we have and what we have actually said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111644	Thank you, Minister. We're moving on, and now it's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111703	Thank you. It is of great importance to us that young people take part in society and contribute to a democratic culture. That is why we would like to sign off on the fact that the alternative with the proposal here raises an important issue for discussion. The motion for a resolution proposes that pupils should be able to have an absence of up to 10 school days per year. school years not included as absenteeism if the pupil can demonstrate that the absence is due to participation in a number of different types of events. The Social Democratic Party basically agrees that pupils should attend their school. That goes without saying. And I don't think anyone disagrees with that. At the same time, it is very positive when young people are involved in civil society and in the work of association. It is a great value that needs to be supported. The question is whether we have today struck the right balance in terms of what opportunities there are for young people to engage in civil society and the activities of associations. In any case, overall, we need to discuss on a regular basis how we support it in an appropriate way. During the high school negotiations, we in the Social Democratic Party wanted to include a section on precisely participation in democratic events such as: school elections, bourgeois ombuds, session etc., where attendance at such events would not give rise to absences. Unfortunately, it only became a brief passage that political youth parties have further access to youth institutions. I have noted that in connection with school elections 2019 the Minister took on the task and invited the rectors of youth education to allow pupils to participate in discussion events in the school elections without any concern about absenteeism. We think this is a good initiative and should be written into the law. School choice is a good example of when it makes sense to support the democratic commitment and understanding of pupils. At the same time, it stresses the need for a broader discussion of when it is appropriate to support pupils' participation in society and contribute to democratic culture. However, I am not sure that the model proposed by the motion for a resolution is appropriate. At the same time, the Social Democratic Party believes that there is a need for a broader discussion of the possibilities for pupils to engage in civil society and association work without any concern about absence. We would like to call on the Minister to take the lead in this, and we would also like to look into the possibility of a wider discussion of the matter in committee. On behalf of both the Social Democrats and the SF, who cannot be here, I should like to say that we are looking forward to further committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111923	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111925	Thank you for a very fine speech, and thank you for the reserved support, if I dare call it that. The rapporteur said that there are some things that make this not appropriate. As the rapporteur has shown genuine interest in this subject, I just want to hear what the rapporteur thinks are the crunches here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329111950	Specifically, it is that we can be insecure about what may give rise to absences, because we basically believe that one should take care of one's school. I think I told you that, too. But where are the precise limits of when the absence is not absence?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112004	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112005	We are thinking of participation in civil society organisations, Council work, association life, including sports associations, volunteering, legally notified demonstrations and political work. What is the rapporteur's position on these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112021	After all, there may still be a grey area in terms of what may be civil society organisations. We would really like to take a look at this in the committee work, so we will get some very clear lines of what is okay and what is not okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112034	Thank you. And then we move on to the next rapporteur. Sir. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112041	Thank you, Madam President. In the Danish People's Party we are incredibly grateful that the Danes show a high commitment to voluntary life. I would go so far as to say that Denmark would not have been Denmark if it had not been for all our associations and the many who are involved in a case, in a sport or in their fellow human beings. In Denmark we have freedom of association and it is legal in our constitution. We have the right to gather together in associations. In other words, associations and voluntary organizations are a right. We in the Danish People's Party believe that civil society is an important part of the Danish DNA. With this resolution, the Alternative seeks support for pupils in upper secondary education to be allowed to obtain up to ten school days of legal absence from their education annually if pupils participate in voluntary work. According to the proposers, it can be about civil society organisations, council work, association life, voluntaryness, legally notified demonstrations or political work. We share the view in the Danish People's Party that it is good that people, regardless of their age, engage in volunteering, etc. The volunteers help to make Denmark stick together. The volunteers in Denmark, whether they are visiting friends, football coaching for a mini-put team or knitting hats for premature babies in the hospital neonatal wards, help to hold Denmark together and ensure coherence in our small country. That is how far we in the Danish People's Party agree with the proposers. However, when it comes to the possibility that pupils in upper secondary education may have legal absences for up to ten school days a year in return for engaging in civil society, we in the Danish People's Party do not agree that there should be this possibility. When you are enrolled in a youth education, it is important to take care of your school or apprenticeship. Participation in football training, demonstrations and other voluntary work must, in the eyes of the Danish People's Party, be outside school or internship. It is not easy to take a youth education course. It should not be neglected that it is important to take care of your school or apprenticeship so that you can pass your exam or exam. One can lose precious lessons when, instead of going to school, for example, one loses precious lessons. go to football training or participate in a demonstration. It can hit the individual student like a boomerang when the exam is to be passed. Of course, education must and must be the first priority. In addition, we are afraid that the possibility of having ten school days off a year for volunteering can be abused and that some will speculate on it. For teachers, it will also be a bit of bureaucratic work to keep track of whether the absence is legal or illegal. Finally, we in the Danish People's Party would like to point out that there is ample opportunity to engage in the voluntary work, the voluntary life after school, including weekends. We know a lot of people who do volunteer work, and we are also more in the Danish People's Party who work voluntarily. It is possible to engage in civil society, both alongside the school or alongside the work. Against this background, we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112407	Thank you very much for a good speech • a very good speech, almost a fantastic tribute to volunteering, to social work, to the work of local associations. Yes, there are virtually no limits to DF's recognition of that work. I'm gonna take that down, and I'm gonna sign for it. But then, in return, the speech ends with the fact that there is no legal absence for it, even though it is obviously so important. Could the rapporteur imagine that we could meet somewhere halfway? In other words, if we relax a little on how many days it could be, we could give some
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112446	We in the Danish People's Party believe that the best thing is to take care of your school during school hours. I don't think there's any way to meet halfway and say, okay, we'll take three or five days. I don't think that's a good solution. We need to take care of our school, we need to improve our skills, and we need to improve and make Denmark even better and then use our free time for all the other work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112515	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112516	I hope the rapporteur recognizes that much of this work does not take place in leisure time. It takes place while society is open, so to speak. And I would just like to hear: is it really true that the rapporteur, who pays so much tribute to volunteering, believes that pupils should spend the time they most often spend on being sick to do voluntary work if they want to do so while society is open?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112546	No, now you can't get disease into it. I myself am of the opinion that you should avoid being sick and then take care of your school. I know you can't avoid it. I've always gone to work or school and tried not to be sick at home. And I'm still going to say that the volunteer work we do outside school hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112611	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112621	Thank you. The usual rapporteur of the Left on the matter, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, has been acutely prevented, so I have promised to take up the matter and read out her speech, and I can say right away that we in the Left are voting against this alternative proposal. I very much agree with the previous speaker that it is also a great tribute to voluntary association work. There is a huge effort being made by a lot of people in many different places. We can't praise that enough and back up enough. But it just falls down like when we come in and see what the alternative is proposing, yes, so it just doesn't stick together. In fact, in the Left, we very much agree with the proposers that it is important that we ensure that our young people have a good framework for participating in civil society activities. I myself am a voluntary and self-union person and also know how much it can mean for a person to be part of a community in many different ways, and know that it can be really healthy, also for young people, to be part of communities other than the community in youth education. Of course, our young people must also have such opportunities, and so do they. There are very many young people who participate actively in different communities. However, I must also say that we in the Left disagree very much when the alternative proposes that participation in various civil society activities should not be taken into account as absenteeism. It should not be a prerequisite for participation in civil society that our young people should give up their education. We must not set up the system in such a way that it is expected that our young people will drop their teaching in order to be able to participate in society. They must, of course, be able to do so, even if they are doing their schooling, and at a time when we see a great many examples of problems with excessive absenteeism in youth education, we in the Left believe that the path proposed here by the Alternative is a completely wrong one to go. A high absence disturbs teachers' planning of teaching, it is disturbing when group work is to be done and the majority of group members are not present. It is disturbing when teachers have to go back in teaching time and again, because some or too many students may not be present at first, and it is disturbing for teachers and their planning, and it is also disturbing for other students who are there and care for their things. The alternative proposal is also very far-reaching. It opens up the possibility for pupils to be able to credit their absence for a wide range of activities. Apparently, it should be okay if a student chooses quite different things instead of doing his teaching. In short, we in the Left do not believe that this is sustainable. We already have a flexible system today. For example: participation in student councils is equivalent to participation in the teaching. But there must be a balance, and in the Left we do not think there is a need for a proposal such as that put forward by the alternative here. In the light of what I have already said, the Left is voting against this resolution. Furthermore, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112935	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329112939	I would just like to thank you for your speech and ask what the rapporteur of the Left thinks about the fact that this system works very well in Norway, where it has been introduced. Norway is a country with which Denmark can be compared very much and which does not look like it is about to collapse for that reason. So what does the rapporteur think about this being introduced in a country that is very similar to ours?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113005	I haven't heard it works well in Norway, and I don't think it does. When I look at the Danish conditions that we are dealing with here, we have, as the rapporteur said, clear positions on this. We should not start cutting education apart with such a proposal here from the Alternative, so we reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113031	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113032	Well, it works in Norway, it's a fact. Does the rapporteur know that our young people are actually a kind of world champion of democracy with Finnish young people? You know very, very much about democracy, and that is super positive. Unfortunately, some of them do not have what is called democratic self-confidence, and the participation of young people in democratic processes is slowing down. Does the rapporteur not believe that this could be a way of ensuring greater participation of young people in this democracy, for which the Left is indeed fighting?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113101-2	No, we do not believe in the alternative proposal here at all. We believe that it will cut things apart, and that is why we reject it in short and in cash. But I am glad that the Alternative's rapporteur also recognises that we here in Denmark are the world champion of democracy. We all have good reason to welcome this and that is also why we can have such a debate as we now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113118	With that we say thank you to Mr. Erling Bonnesen and welcome Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113126	I would say that it is good that today we can consider a proposal to amend the rules on absenteeism, which is not about new restrictions, which are not about rigid provisions, where pupils must be noted for absence one hour to one and a half because they are two minutes late for teaching. So thank you very much to the proposers of the alternative for that. This is not about new sanctions; it is about how important it is to have a view that extends not only to the school gate, but to the other side of the school gate. As the proposers point out, there is good reason to discuss how we promote the active participation of young people in our democracy and the development of our civil society. If there is something that I think is democratically forming, then it is when young people engage and participate actively in the social debate and in the wide-ranging community life that we have. Are you okay? I may have reached an age where I'm not the best judge. But perhaps a few years ago the Danish Youth Council conducted a study which showed that 38%. of the 16-30-year-olds were neither active in associations, spent time volunteering nor engaged in self-organised activities. One can reverse the figures and say that it naturally reflects the fact that the vast majority of young people are actually involved, but as DUF concludes, there is a significant proportion of young people who are not involved in society or the community in one way or another. And both the established association life and the self-organised network-based activities therefore have a common challenge in attracting and sustaining this group of young people, says DUF. As I said, I may be somewhere in my life where I am not the best person to assess it, but therefore I read with interest the way in which the Danish Youth Council describes it. I think it is important and others have already mentioned the fact that we do not see it as such that every time a problem arises, something that we have to do something about in our society, we put a new task on our education system. It can somehow be too easy. This is an obligation that we must resolve in many areas. Having said that, however, I think that our youth education nevertheless plays and must play an extremely important role in motivating students to engage. I believe that in many ways the youth education institutions are doing very well. What we can do is, of course, that we can give schools more tools to solve the important task, and if we can do it, then we must do it. And I think it is obvious that a relaxation or a change in the rules of absence for pupils who engage in civil society and society can be a very good element. If you've just hit the seam with the 10 days, I can be a little bit in doubt, i.e. if it gets a little too mechanical. But I have heard both Mr. Uffe Elbæk will be discussing the matter this morning in P1, and I have, of course, read the comments on the motion for a resolution which suggest that we should have a dialogue on the matter. So I would like to say that, with this starting point and with great interest in learning a little more about the Norwegian experience, we can support the proposal on the part of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113521	Thank you. This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113524	I think that's some wonderful speeches today. Even those who oppose the proposal, I think that is actually good. And those who are for, of course, I'm extra fond of. I was afraid that there would be a men's at some point, and fortunately there wasn't. And it is clear that we are involved in discussing whether we are hitting the nail on the head or not, whether it is going to be less days, whether we should restrict the areas in which we can participate. But right now I just want to say thank you very much for a good speech and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113552	With everything that can contribute to democratic formation and commitment, no one follows buts that follow only one and. It would be very good for us to have a joint dialogue on how best to do this, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113604	Thanks have thus been exchanged. Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. And then it's sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113615	Thank you. The super-rich society that is able to give anyone who wants it, a youth education and is able to give su to most, is created by people who came on time. It is created by people who worked hard, it is created by people who took responsibility for their own lives, it is created by people who responded to each one's own, and by people who did not whine and ask for freedom when they had to face the challenges of life. These are good old bourgeois virtues that the left is working hard and tirelessly to break down. The old bourgeois virtues must be removed, and part of the dismantling of the old bourgeois virtues we see with this motion for a resolution. We can, as a bourgeois party, cultivate the bourgeois virtues and preferably watch the teaching run out by sitting on a hard chair under an unscreened bulb and working, of course, not accepting that. Leisure activities must be carried out in leisure time, and therefore the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113750	Thank you. And that gave rise to a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113753	Thank you for another rhetorical okay speech, but I think it came over in almost arrogance and almost a little mockery. Does the rapporteur really believe that participating in social issues and demonstrating for its right in a democracy is whining?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113820	I believe that one must attend to one's schooling, and then one must do one's leisure activities, and if one cannot accept it and must have the help of the legislature to skip, it is a sort of whining.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113835	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113837	Does the rapporteur not recognise that some of the competences acquired by volunteering and social work are competences that can also be used in the business sector that the rapporteur's party taxes so much?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113854	I myself have worked both in the public and in the private sector for many years before I was elected to parliament. I have simply never been to a place of work where you could just walk away before you had solved the tasks that were in order to participate in leisure activities. I think that one can be exactly as democratically formed after it has called out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113919	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Henrik Dahl. And then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329113928	Thank you. I am proud to live in a country where young people engage. And in the near future there will be elections to the Folketing and to the European Parliament, and I hope that a great many pupils around our upper secondary educations will want to interfere in the political debate and participate in the election campaign. This will mean that if you have to sit in a panel and discuss politics, it will take place during school, and there will be some who do not go to school. That is quite fine with me because, contrary to what we have just heard from the Minister, who said that this would affect professionalism, respect, community and character formation, I believe that the fact that high school students are involved in the forthcoming election campaign means that it will actually strengthen these things. But what do I think of the alternative proposal? I think that the purpose is right, but I think that the proposal is wrong, because I fear that we risk patching up some bad rules with new rules. I believe that the best solution is to abolish the rigid rules on absenteeism introduced by the Minister of Education and to bring it back to what it used to be, namely that you can just find out at the individual school. Specifically, I am concerned about two things in the proposal here. One is that we risk it being unnecessarily bureaucratic. Once such a rule as this comes into the Ministry of Education, I am concerned that before you finish, there will be rules on documentation, requirements and other things that make it difficult in a way that is not necessary. The other thing is this thing with the 10 days. I actually like it better, it's a local estimate, and it's because there's a difference in how much absence students have and there's also a difference in how easy or how difficult it is to keep up with. For some students, 10 days can be fine, but there will also be students where 10 days is too much. That is why I really think that the way it used to be, where it could be found out at each school, is a better solution. When I was in high school, I got an okay. I was able to meet the mayor once a month prior to each city council meeting, and when the general election finally came, I was given one week off to Copenhagen and campaign. We could just find out. And I just think we should be able to find out again. So we fully agree with the purpose, but we think that the proposal here is wrong. We think that we should abolish the rigid rules made by the Minister of Education and leave it up to the schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114210	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114213	Thank you, and thank you again for a good speech. Unfortunately, the men' come here, but I can see that it is a but that does not close the shop completely, but opens up other opportunities and recognizes the desire of young people to show community responsibility. Does the rapporteur not fear that if we leave it up to the individual school, there will be many schools in this country where it is run very restrictively so that they will never give the pupils the freedom that the rapporteur was given at his school?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114248	I'm not really so worried about that, because my experience was that in most places it was possible to find out, but that is why I would like to discuss whether we can do things in order, as well as getting speeches, how important it is that students obviously have room to participate in political events. I just think that what goes wrong with this proposal is that you make it very square and you want to make such a rule that you are entitled to 10 days, because I think the principle is more important, and I think that local estimates are more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114318	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114321	However, the rapporteur and, at least, the rapporteur's party members are themselves at these demonstrations with young people from high schools, taking selfies and being part of it and also marking political support. Does the rapporteur really think that the young people who get involved with them and take on selfies must then be taken home and absent from the activity that the rapporteur shared with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114351	No, that's the whole point. I think it is a good idea that, to take this as an example, we should be able to agree to take part in political demonstrations. Where I disagree with the alternative is in the concrete model. I think it will be very bureaucratic very quickly, because how do you document it and what are some things, and then it will have to be ten days. I like the idea that you can find out at each school better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114422	Then we can thank Mrs Lotte Rod. In fact, Mr President, we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329114447	Thank you for a good debate. And thank you for some good speeches. It is certainly certain that there is agreement that the democratic participation of young people is extremely important and that their social efforts are extremely important. That is also why we have tabled this motion for a resolution on giving high school students the opportunity to participate in social activities, for example. work as trust-elected, political work, aid work. We therefore propose that the Danish Parliament instruct the government to draw up a bill amending the rules for absenteeism in education, so that pupils have up to 10 school days a year, where absences are excluded if pupils participate in these social activities. And what do I mean by this? I mean: work in civil society organisations, council work, association life, including sports associations, voluntary work, legally notified demonstrations, political work at both national and international level. We really think it should be high school itself that has to administer this. So we're gonna take it to the schools. We can see that it works; it can easily be done; it works in Norway. It is clear that if it turns out that there are major problems with it, you can always take it up again and evaluate it. However, we are actually confident that the management of youth education is able to manage the scheme with respect for the intention of the proposal to give room to the social commitment of young people. That is why we want to place a great deal of emphasis on the fact that we should not have a great deal of bureaucracy in place here. I believe that the fact that young people have the opportunity to carry out social tasks is incredibly addictive. Well, I really think there are many, many people who learn something about being out in real cooperation relationships instead of the theoretical school that I have nothing against; I think it's a great school we have. That's not it at all. But I'm the manager myself I have a small company with five employees and when it's the case that I hire people, it means a lot to me, if it says in the application that people, regardless of their character background I'm actually going to say, it's rare that I'm checking the character background I've shown the willingness to cooperate with others, shown the willingness to take initiative, shown the commitment to what they politically think, or shown empathy, i.e.. will to help others. I think it is wonderful when people through their lives from primary and perhaps high school have shown the ability to interact with the reality in which they need their education. And for me, as an employer, it's an incredibly important part when we hire people. I think it is a problem that we have some young people who know so much about democracy. They are world champions of knowledge but that democratic participation is decreasing. It's a problem for this house; it's a problem for our democracy. In other words, we believe that the whole world must have democracy; Afghanistan and Iraq must also have democracy everywhere, but we have some difficulty selling it to our own young people. In other words, the way we present democracy to young people is not always so appetising. I would actually say that we sometimes manage to scare the kids away a little. I remember my daughter making a facebook post that I didn't dare publish, where there was an argument between Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Lars Løkke Rasmussen in a debate, and then she cut directly to an argument at the Paradise Hotel. And I have to say that the resemblance was actually striking. It is not always that way, but sometimes we are able to show politics in a way that scares young people away instead of luring young people into. Therefore it is so incredibly important that some come out there in real life and experience that if you stand with someone else and fight hard enough for it, you can actually get things through; then you can actually create value; then you can actually create something that your friends and friends think is really, really strong. That is why it is our concern to increase young people's opportunities for social engagement. And that is also why I am so pleased, on the one hand, that even the rapporteurs who do not support the proposal have taken it so well and, on the other hand, that I have received support, although of course I am afraid to interpret the various levels of support I have received. But as far as I'm concerned, it's about having this adjusted in order, so it's useful, and without me having to put words in someone's mouth, I'll say a thousand, a thousand thanks to the Enhedslisten for that there's a will for it. However, I would also like to say to the Socialist rapporteur, who also spoke on behalf of the SF, that I think there is at least something to go on talking about in a really, really constructive way. And the social democratic recognition of young people's desire and need to get involved in society, I think, is really, really fine. This also applies to the radical rapporteur's desire to recognise the problem, albeit through another system, so that we can at least probably talk closer to each other. So I am really happy about this debate and I am really happy about the good speeches and I think there is something to talk about, so I would like to thank you for a good debate and wish everyone a very good weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20190329115024	That was the end, because there are no brief comments. So, thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr. Torsten Gejl. Are there any comments? It's agreed. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20190329115033	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 2 April 2019 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
