ParlaMint-DK_20190507130034	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130043	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130058	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 92 by Mikkel Dencker (DF), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Leif Mikkelsen (LA) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. in favour of 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal No V 92 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 91 by Jens Joel (S), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Ida Auken (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130233	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130251	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 96 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 11 (ALT and RV). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130330	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, the treasure minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130342	I should just like to say briefly that there has been concern about the legislative proposal on which media were covered. That is understandable, but the rules are such that we cannot say that very clearly. That won't change, no matter how long you wait. I hope that will not be the case. The second message I have promised to make here is that a competition analysis has been carried out and there has been concern about whether we should wait for it. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has agreed that we can take it after adopting the bill, because it will not change the bill. But I will give the commitment that I have agreed with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we are, of course, looking at that analysis and if it leads to tax matters, then we are looking at it constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130437	Thank you, Minister. There are a few comments. Yeah. Wait a minute, sir. Minister, there's Mr. Christian Langballe, DF. Or is it wrong? Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130454	I think that is extremely sensible, because it must be understood that we will not be voting on the legislative proposal in a few moments' time or what? Only yesterday, then, we had a discussion in consultation on whether it should not wait when we had this competition study. So what exactly is the Minister of Taxation telling the Danish Parliament now? Are we going to see that competition investigation before we vote on the bill, or are we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130521	We will vote on the bill and we will not see it before we vote, but I have promised that I have agreed with the Danish People's Party to give the undertaking that we will of course look at the result afterwards, but the outcome of the competition study will not change this bill. Nor will it change the criteria, but it can change other things. So we are going to vote and I hope that everyone will vote green for the bill, because that is very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130544	Sir. Jesper Petersen. No. Then it is Mrs Ulla Sandbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130551	I must have come to press without knowing. I've been playing with my fingers. Laughter
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130559	Then I should like to ask if there are any more who wish to speak. Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130618	This is, in fact, a very interesting matter because, when we had the media talks last year, there was a broad majority. In fact, I believe that we fully agree that it was a very good idea to achieve equality of print and electronic media, so that it was not only one type of media that had zero VAT and the other type of media that did not. We wanted equality. Now there was not a broad media reconciliation that became a very narrow media reconciliation, and the narrow media reconciliation has been translated into the very narrow majority in the Folketing then chose to run a complete solo without informing us any more about the implementation of the zero VAT legislation that we are going to deal with now. There we have just had to say, when we look at it, that it is completely unclear what we are adopting. You who sit here have no idea what you're gonna decide in a moment, and if there's someone out there after you come outside the door asking you what that means for that publication and what it means for that publication, then you won't be able to answer. It is completely unclear. Despite the fact that we have asked a large number of questions, it has not become clearer. We could then imagine that we were at least waiting for the study we have just heard about to be carried out, but the government has chosen to bring forward the adoption of this proposal. Instead of using the normal procedure, it has been decided to advance the adoption. The rest of us wanted the study first, and then when you had the study result, we had to make the bill. And we could do that within a month, that is. either at the end of this month or, if elections were to be held, as one of the first under a new government. Because there is a broad majority behind it, if we know the exact details. The government did not want this, and that is why it is at least Enhedslisten's view that the government must take responsibility for the legislation that no one knows what it is about, and that is why Enhedslisten has decided to abstain from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130831	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130834	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 55 votes (DF, V, LA and KF), 0 abstentions voted 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130926	Then the Prime Minister has asked me to make a statement of a special nature: "I am hereby required to do so pursuant to § 19 (1). 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing request the floor in order to be able to make an opinion of a special nature in the Folketing. - The Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507130943	It is spring that is leaves on the trees that the term of office is approaching its end, and much goes well in lovely Denmark. Since the elections, tens of thousands of new jobs have been created. Never before in the history of Denmark have so many people been at work; not since 1987 have so few been on public support. There is progress throughout the country. The Danes feel that in their everyday lives. We have improved the conditions for entrepreneurs and Danish jobs, and it is now more attractive to take a job and contribute to the community. It creates a healthy economy. That is absolutely crucial. The money needs to be made before it can be used. The deficit that we inherited from the previous government has been reversed and we have struck a balance in the economy. It provides freedom and security for the individual, for the family, for the community. The healthy economy means that we can spend more money on the community, on health, on children, on security and on the elderly, well to feel without piercing the box or raising the already quite high taxes. It's been possible because we're best at running the country. I want to live in a country where we believe in personal freedom, but do not let the weak sail their own lake, where we make room for the individual, but not at the expense of the community, and where we strengthen the community, but never, so that it becomes clingy and unfree. That is what I want from Denmark. That's what I'm fighting for. That is where I want to see my children grow and where the grandchildren I hope will one day meet the world. Right there in the balance between freedom and community Denmark must be. Although there are differences between the parties, we are, fortunately, agreed on a great deal. It's easy to miss it when the waves go high. We agree that Denmark must continue to be a role model for green conversion and a sustainable future. That is why all parties are behind the most ambitious energy agreement ever. We agree to prioritize the welfare framework for large parts of our lives, the safety net that grabs those who fall, but we must not forget that good welfare requires a solid economy. We agree that everyone must join the community so that the good times will all benefit, so that insecure children and young people have more secure ground under their feet, and so that there is room for the crooked existences that do not just go through life. We agree to invest in health so that there will be better conditions for patients and relatives when disease strikes. We agree on all this, but a green effort, a good welfare, a Denmark where everyone is involved, and investments in health all require a solid economy. It is not enough to put forward a wish list; the economy must be balanced. It is easier to agree on the wishes than to pay for them. There are also things on which we disagree. There are dividing lines that it is crucial that we discuss. We ensure a healthy economy where we do not spend more than we do and where the greatest possible number of people are in work. There has to be that balance. We ensure a foreign policy where Denmark must remain an open country, but at the same time we must take care of Denmark. Foreigners must contribute to the community. That is why we have lowered social benefits for unemployed foreigners and refugees. This is a policy which has led to thousands of children having experienced their parents leaving cash for work or education. This is a policy which has led to asylum being at the lowest level in a decade where we are helping historically in the neighbourhood and where the proportion of refugees and family members in jobs has doubled in a few years. The positive development will some roll back. I have to warn you about that. Higher services to non-western immigrants can drain billions from nuclear welfare, keep people outside the working community and again make it attractive to seek asylum in Denmark. For although we have managed to get a better grip on foreign policy, we do not have Western immigrants and descendants who still cost 35 billion. kr. a year. It's smaller than it used to be, but that's all, too much. In a responsible economy one has to choose, and I would rather spend extra money on core welfare, on investments in the future or on lowering the tax for hard-working Danes with small incomes. Others would rather spend the money on unemployed foreigners and again make it more attractive to seek asylum in Denmark, but less attractive to work. A tight immigration policy and a responsible economy without tax increases on the one hand and the relief of foreigners, higher benefits and tax increases on the other are some of the crucial differences in Danish policy. Denmark is worth fighting for. Denmark is recognized with good reason for one of the world's happiest countries year after year, but despite that, the challenges are to see, and they cannot be solved simply with a fingertips or a smart slogan or in 12 minutes. The world is breaking up, tensions are rising between East and West, brexit, yellow vests, questioning the value of international cooperation, the EU is under pressure, climate change is clear and frightening, the pressure from refugees and migrants continues to challenge Europe, and here in Denmark we suddenly hear views in the debate, which most of us regard as extreme and xenophobic. Breaking calls for assembly, shaking demands stability, uncertain times require an experienced, robust and responsible leadership. I have therefore announced yesterday to Her Majesty the Queen that elections to the Danish Parliament will be held. I want to use all my will, my skills and my experience to continue leading Denmark, and I ask the Danes for re-election in the parliamentary elections, which will be held on the Constitutional Day on 5 June 2019. Now there will be room to discuss Europe and domestic policy, both separately and in context, because it is connected. Who do we want to be? For what do we want to be known? I have no doubt. We have won all our wealth in an open and positive interaction with the rest of the world, and we must hold on to that while we look after ourselves and each other. At the same time, a long parliamentary election campaign gives us plenty of time to debate the parties between, the prime minister candidates between, so that the Danes get a clear picture of who is best at leading Denmark. To my colleagues in the Chamber, I would like to conclude by saying thank you. Thank you for your constructive cooperation. Over the past four years, my governments have made agreements with all of us in the Danish Parliament, and we have adopted almost 95 per cent. of all draft legislation by a majority across the middle. So thank you for your trust, and thank you for the many good times over the last 4 years. I would like to wish you all and the Danes a very good election campaign.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507131924	It's absolutely allowed today. We just got it. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190507131941	Once parliamentary elections have been held, it is the practice to stop the ordinary activities of the Things, and I shall therefore interrupt the meeting. Should it become necessary I would like to ask you to stay until we are fully finished............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would also like to wish everyone a good election campaign. I know that there are a number of Members who do not re-table for the elections, and I would like to thank them very warmly for the work they have done in the service of the people's regime. I would also like to extend this thanks to those who, for other reasons, do not return after the elections. After all, no one has been given a place in advance when we have free elections, and therefore also from me: a very good election campaign.
