ParlaMint-DK_20190205130000	The meeting is open. From a member of the Danish Parliament Mette Abildgaard, who is on leave, I have received notice that from 7 February 2019 onwards she can again meet in Tinget. Sir. Erik Lund's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. We need a little more silence in the Chamber; I cannot hear what I am saying myself. Today there are the following reviews: Roge Courage Matthisen (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 87 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compulsory education in the field of gender, equality and diversity). Nikolaj Villumsen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. 88 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on openness in the Council). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130113	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130133	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130140	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130224	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130232	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130315	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130327	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister for the Environment and Food, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130338	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130345	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130435	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130440	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130525	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130531	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 28 abstentions (S). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130617	The debate is open. I now give just time for those who do not want to be in this debate to leave the Chamber. Then we shall be calm again, and so I can give the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205130700	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you for waiting. Bill No. 143 is a legislative proposal proposing the introduction of a compulsory pension scheme for beneficiaries of transfer income and compensation for employers, as well as a change in the rate regulation of different transfer income. A good initiative has now been launched for those groups of people in society who do not save up for a pension scheme and for old age. It is a good thing that throughout life we save up for our old age when the time comes. Otherwise, there is a risk of having a two-tier society: those who save and those who have not had a savings. So this is a good initiative. It is very good for all those who are on transfer income that they get a pension savings that they can continue with when they get back to work. So, of course, there is also a hope of continuing with pension payments. The funding is from the pool funds and will start in 2020 at 0.3 per cent. and continues until 2030, where it will be 3.3 per cent. Then we will have to look again at the scheme in 2030. We hope, of course, that when we get there we will make some good arrangements forward. It is also a good initiative that it is ATP that has to manage the scheme; it provides a good return and a cheap administration. Of course, there are also cracks in the proposal, because the current legislation on active social policy means that if you have been on cash benefits for six months, you have to withdraw your own pension before moving on to cash benefits. I hope, of course, that the Minister will find a solution, because you cannot both give with one hand and say that they have to save and go with the other hand and say that they have to raise what they have saved themselves. I hope that the Minister will find a good solution so that we do not find ourselves in the situation of providing a pension scheme with one hand and with the other hand actually taking up what they have saved themselves. So I would like to ask whether the Minister will try to find a solution to this. So I would just like to say that we agree with the scheme and think it is a good regulation and hope that it will be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131013	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131016	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech. I am glad that the rapporteur, although he is in a conciliation behind such a proposal, is aware that there are also some knots in it. The rapporteur himself mentioned one, namely the danger of being set off in cash aid. There are several other cracks in it, as the Elder case points out. I will return to that myself in my rapporteur's speech, but I would just like to mention a very serious one, and it is, of course, that there are certain people on transfer income who are at risk of having a lower regulation by virtue of this bill than they would have had if they had continued with the rate regulation. That's a lot of thousands of dollars, it could be. It depends on what wage developments are and, if they are below 2.3 per cent, the problem I am mentioning here arises, and the Elder case also draws attention to this. The Enhedslisten has also done so during the discussion of the Finance Act. Then what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur will help to remedy the problems raised by the Elder case, one of which has been addressed by the rapporteur himself. Now I'm going to mention another one. Will the rapporteur help to correct these problems during the legislative process so that we are sure that the problems will be resolved when this is adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131135	Thank you and thank you for the question. First of all, of course, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that we have started this discussion and have a system put in place so that those who are on transfer income also receive pension savings. I think that's really good. After all, we are going to leave a group of people who do not have an occupational pension to save or save. That is why I think it is a very good initiative. There are knots in this, there is absolutely no doubt about that, but I believe that we should look at the knots that are and try to solve them along the way, so we will of course help to look at the knots that lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131215	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131217	Thank you. Yeah, it's fine with a pension fund for those people. After all, some of us have been wanted for many years. It's less good that they're gonna pay it themselves, because it's kind of the result of this, but let's just leave it alone. The rapporteur says he will look at it far along the way. What I was asking is: will the rapporteur be involved in this and it will then be through some amendments to correct it in the legislative process, so that we have a legislative proposal that does not lead to any of the already quite poor people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131253	I can promise the rapporteur that we will help to look at it and see whether both the knots in the legislative proposal and those that are going forward can be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131307	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131316	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill is actually the one that cancels the 2020 rate pool, where no amount is deducted from a transfer income entering a rate pool. Instead, the money goes to those who really need it. One might then ask whether it is okay for it to be drawn until they are retiring, but with this proposal it is agreed that you will have a pension savings under the ATP which can be used when you retire. The good thing about it is that no one can put their hands on that pension fund if you come on cash benefits for a period of time. There has been the fact that the municipalities include the pension that you have, and that is one of the things that needs to be resolved. Another problem that I think we should address in this connection, and I would urge the Minister to do so if he does not listen to me, but now he is the one who has problems with ATP and pension, for who should have the ATP if you die and you are not married? We may be able to look at this issue during the examination of this bill. It is obvious to look into whether a solution could be found, because there are actually many who say that their children cannot even get the ATP. So if we could take a closer look at it and perhaps find a solution to this in the legislative process, it would actually be a good thing at least it is a wish. I do not know whether we can find a solution, but we can at least see if it is possible to find a solution. But all in all we in the Danish People's Party think it is a good proposal. We get away from the fact that it is taken from a bet pool and distributed to the right and left in all possible directions, without really benefiting everyone who has paid for it. So the Danish People's Party can of course warmly support this proposal. We know that there are some problems with the committee procedure. Now I have just had the pleasure of hearing Finn Sørensen raise a problem that Social Democratic Jan Johansen says they are ready to look at. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party are also ready to see if we can find solutions to the problems that exist. It's just to be a little ahead, because I think I'm gonna get that question from Finn Sørensen too. We are, of course, ready to see whether we can find some sensible solutions to the problems that have been raised along the way. After all, we know that there has been a very short consultation period on this proposal too, and in this respect, of course, we are also ready to look a little more seriously at the problems that have been raised in connection with the consultation responses. All in all, however, we still think it is a good proposal, but we can also see that there are some issues on which we need to see if we can find some sensible solutions. So, of course, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131700	Thank you. First of all, the Danish People's Party must be praised for having taken this up in the financial negotiations; also praise for having abolished the pool of rates and ensuring that people's pensioners are regulated in line with wage developments; not so much praise for imposing on the rest of the beneficiaries of the transfer income that they have to pay their own pension. I think it's people who could use the money in their hands that the right people should have. But rice for the creation of a regulatory system which means, for example, that: a single early retirement pensionist at the highest early retirement rate, if this regulation, as is now proposed, had been in force from 2005, would have been DKK 4,200. poorer than the current regulation. This is clear from some answers to questions that we have asked during the financial law negotiations, and it is based on figures that we have received from the Finance Minister. I am glad that the Danish People's Party says that you want to make things right. And if the Social Democratic Party wants to, then we already have a majority. But how does the Danish People's Party feel about making a bill which means that if the wage trend is below 2.3 per cent, then there are some groups that have reduced their living standards compared to the current regulation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131833	After all, it is a little difficult in such negotiations to assess what wage developments are in the various years, but that was what I was trying to say at least, namely that we are ready to see whether we could find a sensible solution to the issues raised here at first reading and which we need to look at before we have to adopt the legislation. It is clear that this is one of the problems we must see if we can find a sensible solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131905	Well again, thank you for that commitment, and I hope that it is also an undertaking that means that when Enhedslisten puts forward an amendment that corrects this, that the Danish People's Party will then support it. Of course we should have at least another larger party with that, I hope we can have that. So I hope that the undertaking will be interpreted in this way; otherwise the rapporteur must say that no, it should not be understood that way, one would just look at it. So I would just like to say that I am a little surprised that it is not being corrected before the legislative proposal is tabled, because Enhedslisten has asked some questions which show that there is a problem and that there was a problem in the agreement that has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205131950	Now Mr. Finn Sørensen the bill and what needs to be corrected and an amendment from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Finn Sørensen has been in this Parliament for so long that he knows very well that if there are to be changes in such a bill, it is the circle behind the bill that must be agreed. Then you do not just go out across the board and vote in favour of various amendments. Mr. Finn Sørensen well. But I also know that Mr. Finn Sørensen was supposed to tell you. But thank you for the praise that came from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132026	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132036	Thank you. As I have already said, the proposal translates into agreement on new regulation of retirement pensions and the introduction of compulsory pension schemes for transfer income recipients, which the government and Dansk Folkeparti entered into as part of the Danish Finance Act for 2019. Subsequently, all the parties of the Folketing, apart from Enhedslisten, have agreed to the agreement, and I welcome that. It is actually a very good day today, because I think it is a very good agreement that lifts our pension system and the lives of many pensioners. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we use the good times to lift the lives of as many people as possible. For example, the Danish Government and Dansk Folkeparti have concluded a number of agreements that give Danish employees more of their own payrolls in their pockets and which also strengthen our pension system, among other things. by addressing the so-called interplay problem. Then we build on an already strong pension system. The agreement means that, from 2020 onwards, the retirement pension will follow wage developments, so that all old-age pensioners will have a greater bit of prosperity. This is welcome, especially for those old-age pensioners who have the least on the coffin floor. We are introducing a compulsory pension scheme for beneficiaries of transfer income. First of all, it is a gain for the individual who can look forward to a slightly larger pension savings, and then it is good for society when more people are helping to save up for their old age. It is important to emphasise that this is additional money. The contribution is added to the transfer income so that the pension savings will not reduce the actual current income here and now, in proportion to what they have to spend in everyday life. This is, of course, linked to the part of the agreement that means that, from 2020, new funds will no longer be added to the rate pool. Finally, the draft law also contains an element with an additional reimbursement to employers for the salary paid, for example, during illness or maternity. In most cases, the employer pays for an occupational pension, so it is perfectly reasonable that the employer should not also have to pay for the compulsory pension scheme. All in all, we very much welcome the draft law, which helps to ensure that as many people as possible have the opportunity to have a good life, including in senior life. So in those words, the Left would like to say that we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132332	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132336	Thank you. It is surely not a good day if a legislative proposal, which one stands for, means that some groups, if wage developments are below 2.3 per cent, will have a worse adjustment of their already modest income than they would have with the previous regulation. I don't understand what the good is in it. After all, I have presented the problem to the other rapporteurs and I think the rapporteur has listened and then it might be interesting to know whether the Left, as one of the major conciliation parties in this context, is willing to go in and correct the error that has apparently occurred here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132415	Now we need to have a thorough committee work, because it is complicated legislation, and we also need to look at the issue that the Enhedslisten rapporteur has now mentioned a number of times, and we will do so in committee. But that does not mean that we should not be pleased that with this agreement we ensure that people who today, unfortunately in many cases, do not get saved up for their pensions, are now saved up a little in the future but a little is also better than nothing for their future pension, and thus we also ensure that they have a slightly better chance of having a good and safe senior life. So at least I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132508	Thank you. Now there are different degrees of enthusiasm for the idea as a whole, but I will come back to that, because that is not what I have spent my time on. I have just pointed to one, I think, and the Enhedslisten, quite serious problem, and we are not alone in that criticism, because the Elders case has also made a very precise proposal on how to resolve it. I did not hear a commitment, but I did not hear a blank 'no' either. So if the rapporteur can confirm that it is not a blank 'no' to look at it and get it resolved in the legislative process, then I must mobilise all the optimism I can in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132547	I am, as a starting point, a person who has a positive approach to life, and here a problem is raised, and we should look at that. Then we have to find out in the circle of parties behind this agreement how and how we deal with the issue raised by Enhedslisten here. What I regret today is that the Enhedslisten is not in it. The Enhedslisten is not helping to secure future pension savings for the many people who are currently on transfer income, and I look forward to getting an explanation of this when Enhedslisten occupies the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132624	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. This is happening now, as the next speaker is Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205132639	Thank you. The answer can then be given quickly, and the rapporteur knows the explanation, because this agreement is made by a conciliation circle which Enhedslisten is not part of. Nor have we been invited to debate it, but if we had been, we would have pointed out the problem I have raised here today. We are, of course, very pleased that the rate pool is now being abolished and we are pleased that, in future, people's pensioners will have to have their pensions regulated in line with wage developments, as has happened with the adoption of L 135. We are just looking at the fact that this regulation should benefit all beneficiaries of transfer income, and not just pensioners, in the sense that they actually increased their income by it, so that those people who do not have a lot of money in advance could spend a little more money. If these people could choose for themselves, I think they would clearly think that they cannot afford to save up for retirement. Moreover, this is a very modest saving compared with the 12% of the labour market pension, and there is no more air for it if we want to do so in the way the conciliation parties have decided. Frankly, we think it is too poor to force these people to save themselves. It is a strange thank you to give them that for many, many years, the rate-pool regulation has helped to reduce their conditions. Most people who receive a transfer income have a much greater need for money and a fair adjustment of their income now than is proposed here. It should be borne in mind that cash benefits recipients and other poor recipients of transfer income would actually be much better off financially with a folk pension, housing allowance and health allowance even if they do not have income beyond the folk pension than they are today with their current cash benefits. Danish Handicap Organisations, the Muscle Wind Foundation and the LEV point out that a large proportion of their members do not live long enough to reach the retirement age. In other words, they will not benefit from compulsory pension savings, but will feel a continued erosion of their income. With the abolition of the rate pool, we should take the step fully and ensure that the 0.3% that went to the rate pool comes back to all beneficiaries of transfer income and that in future all transfer income is regulated in line with wage developments. In addition, the 2012 tax agreement should be terminated as soon as possible so that tax relief is not financed in the future with a reduction of 0.75%. of the transfer income. Unfortunately, however, in our view, the majority in favour of this anti-social regulation has only increased, because the alternative has been included in that conciliation. The Elder Case has identified four points that they propose amended in the bill, and Enhedslisten agrees with all four points. We will work to ensure that these proposals are taken into account in committee. The really big problem, which, among other things, is: Older People The point is that this proposal will put people on transfer incomes worse than the current regulation if wage developments are less than 2.3 per cent, and it has been the last many, many years. We have received some answers from the Minister of Finance confirming that if the proposed regulation had been in force since 2005, this would have meant that the benefit for a genuine single early retirement pensionist with the highest early retirement pension would have been DKr 4,200. lower than today, for an allowance recipient the difference would have been DKr 3,600, and for a cash benefit recipient it would have been DKr 2,400-3,200. lower than today. This is therefore one of the consequences of the kind of regulation that has been chosen here. It is true that the beneficiary will then receive a pension fund and that the money that was previously put into the rate pool will be spent on pension savings. There will then be a number of those who will benefit at that time, except that they risk being eaten up by the set-off rules for folk pensions and social benefits. This is another problem, as the Elders case also points out. These matters must at least be corrected if the Enhedslisten is to support this proposal. And it should not be the economy that stands in the way of making proper regulation. After all, the Minister for Finance has explained to us in an answer that it will actually cost nothing to implement the amendment proposed by the Elders case. So I look forward to the committee reading and hope that I can convince a majority in this House that we need to correct the errors and shortcomings in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133115	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133124	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have, of course, explained what the draft law contains here. And in the Liberal Alliance, we also think it is sensible to introduce this compulsory pension savings because, as a society, we have an interest in everyone saving up for their old age. But we would also like to admit that it has given us such ideological arguments about whether to force people to save up for their own old age, because there is some inherent non-liberal thinking in it. But, on the other hand, if you stand and have not saved up, it is the Community that must take over, and that is why we think it is sensible. And, of course, we also support the agreement we have been involved in making.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133234	Thank you, President. In 2015, the alternative entered into the stake pool settlement. We did so with open eyes, and we did so after a lot of discussion, because we thought that there were many problems, both with the way the pool was managed and the way the money was distributed, but also with the funding. But we thought that we would go into it and try to help solve some of the problems that were there. We have now managed to deal with the problems of content. We are also making such very big preventive efforts instead of this short-term project support. We are perpetuating more and more talented organisations so that they do not have to think every four years about whether they can find money, but can help the often vulnerable target group they are now set in the world to help. And it's also important because the bet pool doesn't stop. Well, it goes on. The funds will be reduced, but there will be back-flow money if it is that we cannot distribute the money. The main problem seems to us to have been funding. We thought: if we succeeded in changing it and ensuring that this work was not financed for the socially vulnerable with the money of the socially vulnerable, I would have said, and with the money of pensioners and those who receive transfer income. It will then stop now that we ensure that pensioners have their pensions adjusted after wage developments and that those on transfer income receive savings. This presents some challenges, and it is clear that we must look at them one by one. However, we are in the agreement, and that also means that we are in the agreement when we look in 2029 at how we continue, after the contribution rate has reached 3.3% at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133429	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133431	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that the alternative, unlike the Enhedslisten, made the choice to join the pool of rates, and that is why the rapporteur is here today as co-sponsor of this proposal. My question is: has the rapporteur been aware of the problem I have now raised through various issues and in my own rapporteur's speech, that is, if wage developments are lower than 2.3 per cent, those on transfer income will experience worse regulation than they would get with the current regulation? That is one question. The second question is: Can the rapporteur explain to me how the alternative could be agreed to join the 2012 tax settlement, which means that, on top of the worse regulation that these people have been subjected to for years, in a lifetime, they must also experience that in these years, they are further reduced by 0.75% each year, I believe, until 2022. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I simply do not understand that the alternative has agreed to such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133603-2	As for the first, it is very tempting to say: yes, we were aware of that. But I would say that I was not really aware of that until the Enhedslisten mentioned it today. There are a lot of problems in this, but that's exactly the problem, sir. Finn Sørensen points out, I wasn't aware of. Now, sir. Finn Sørensen pointed this out so many times that we have all become aware of it. I won't be able to tell you if we all were, but I certainly wasn't. But that will certainly mean that it is one thing that will be presented in the forthcoming committee debates. On the second point, I would like to say: yes, we have to take responsibility for the fact that we have been involved, that is to say that we have entered into that conciliation. That is clear, because we have also helped to distribute the money. We've also been involved in spending the money. So has Enhedslisten, but has not been involved in taking responsibility for the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133705	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133707	I think it is quite fair if you have not been aware of this, but now I have put the rapporteur on the trail of it, and then I hope and I think the rapporteur will, because that is how I know the rapporteur will then go home and start looking into things. So I am only happy about that, and I only hope that if the rapporteur arrives at the conclusion that what I have said here today is right, then the rapporteur will support an amendment that corrects the problem. As far as the second discussion is concerned, it is a long debate. I am not so sensitive to the fact that it has been decided to enter into the wage-pool settlement. What I am aware of is why it is absolutely necessary to join the 2012 tax settlement, which is, after all, a clear anti-social way of financing tax reductions, because a very large part of the tax relief is paid by people outside the labour market. That really puzzles me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133806	Well, these are the conditions for sitting at the table and helping to change this and get the solution that Enhedslisten has also called for so incredibly long, so that we ensure that it is not pensioners and those on transfer income who have to pay the rate pool. It is simply the price, and we have been involved in it and are willing to pay it here. With regard to the rapporteur's first question, I would like to say that I do not in fact in any way doubt that the rapporteur is right. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur usually does, for he usually gets to know things. So, yeah, we'll see about that. Whether and exactly how we will comply with an amendment from the Enhedslisten, I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133847	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Rasmus Helveg Petersen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133903	Thank you. We are radically pleased that this proposal introduces a compulsory pension scheme for beneficiaries of transfers of income. We are in favour of this leading to some delimitation problems in relation to other services, and we would like to discuss various things constructively, also in line with the debate we have had in this Chamber today. The most important thing for us is that this proposal opens up pension schemes for this group of beneficiaries of transfer income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133944	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205133954	It is high time we had a pension fund for people on transfer incomes. This is something we have been discussing ever since the late 1980s, when we did not quite get to grips with the creation of occupational pensions, but where it was so floating that there should now be a follow-up legislation that took care of people on unemployment benefits or on transfer income, by the way. It just never happened. Therefore, it is good that that part of it is now being closed off. It is also high time, in the view of the SF, to cancel the agreement on the rate pool, so that those who already have quite little should not be picked financially. We also think it is good to get away from the project jungle that is and to give the money for a more general boost and for more stable investment. SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134045	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it's mr. Erik Lund as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134052	Thank you. In the 2019 Finance Act, the government and Dansk Folkeparti entered into an agreement on a new regulation of the folk pension and the introduction of mandatory savings for transfer recipients... an agreement that all parties, apart from Enhedslisten, have supported by an additional agreement just before Christmas. It is a very good step for everyone to be saved up for their old age, whether they are working or on transfer income. Conservatives support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134125	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then the trip has come to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134134	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the comments on the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. The draft law, as has already been mentioned, is the result of an agreement on the new regulation of a retirement pension and the introduction of compulsory pension savings for transferees. After all, it is an agreement that was concluded as part of the 2019 Finance Act with the Danish People's Party. Since then it has also been seen that the agreement has subsequently been signed by the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Alternative, and it is basically very welcome with broad support. The draft law introduces a compulsory pension scheme for certain transfer beneficiaries who have so far contributed to the financing of the rate pool. This is precisely what we are doing to ensure that as many people as possible are in the best position to have a good life as a pensioner, regardless of their professional history. The scheme will take effect from 2020. This also means, therefore, that from 2020 no new funds will be allocated to the rate pool. The contribution to the compulsory pension scheme in 2020 is 0.3%. of the transfer income in question. The contribution will then increase by 0.3 per cent each year. This means that the contribution by 2030 will be 3.3%, and by 2029 at the latest, the parties behind the agreement will have to decide whether to increase the contribution further so that it will be greater than the 3.3%. It is important for me to stress that the contribution is added to the individual's transfer income. The person concerned will thus receive a higher pension than today. The draft law also provides for employers to receive an additional refund for the salary paid during illness or maternity or during training for the State's adult training aid. As the employer often pays an employer's pension on his salary, the employer does not also have to pay contributions to the compulsory pension scheme. This additional reimbursement corresponds to the contribution from compulsory pension scheme. The scheme as a compulsory pension scheme must be administered by ATP. I think that makes sense, as the vast majority of us are already a member of the ATP, so that the administrative costs can be kept at a reasonable level. I am also looking forward to further discussions on this proposal, but will already answer a few of the questions that have been put and say that the comments made by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Bent Bøgsted, we are looking at during the committee procedure, and just as in relation to Jan Johansen's question, which is indeed reflected in a letter I have written to the parties to the agreements that are, and in which I have just stressed that the issue of capital pensions, we need to look at during the committee procedure. I think that is quite reasonable. In addition, I can say that there will of course also be other issues raised by this debate which will be reflected during the committee's consideration of the questions which Mr. Finn Sørensen has left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134450	Thank you. There are brief comments. First question, sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134453	Thank you. But then, at least I'll just sign for that answer, because when you read the consultation note and see how the minister answers the Elders case, it's such a little bit • now I don't know which word to use cool answer that goes on: Well we have a settlement, so there's nothing more to talk about. That's how I saw it. So I hope that the Minister's last remark should be understood in such a way that the door is not slammed in so that we can make some changes to this bill. I know that this is not the same as a commitment to simply implement the changes that we are proposing or others are proposing, but I hope that the door is not closed in to make some changes to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134537	I think I would call it a sober answer given to the hearing answer, because it is simply referred to the agreement. But as Mr. Finn Sørensen knows that my door is always wide open, including for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134552	The next question is Mr. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134553	I would simply like to acknowledge that the Minister raised the question of the fact that, on the one hand, they were told that they should have a pension and, on the other hand, they said that they should use it after 1⁄2 years. So I look forward to the discussion, also of the other issues raised by the Danish People's Party. So I'm looking forward to having a look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134619	Well, I would like to sign for that, because this whole bill must be based on ensuring that the group covered by the bill will have better conditions in the future. That is precisely what the whole point is, and that is what the political agreement is. So that's why we also have to look at some of these corners. I also owe it to me to say that much of this is also true, really technical, so there are many different technical elements, because it is related to other parts of the legislation. Having said that, however, I am absolutely convinced that we can, of course, find a solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134653	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134718	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Jan Johansen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134726	Thank you, sir. President. Bill L 144 concerns a tax-free allowance in the form of a senior premium, the first year after retirement. The bill provides that those born on or after 1 January 1954 who work at least 1,560 hours may receive a tax-free sum of DKr 30,000, the first year after reaching retirement age. The proposal must motivate and maintain seniors who retire to stay longer in the labour market. It is, of course, a proposal that some will take advantage of in order to stay longer in the labour market, but it must also be said that it is not just those who are most worn out who benefit from this system. After all, there are a great many people who have worn out in some way before they reach retirement age, and the proposal considers that this will only mean that 480 people will stay longer at work. It seems that the 5,500 scheme will pay a senior premium and that only approx. 480, who's gonna take advantage of this because they're gonna get the $30,000. of the total value. We are voting in favour of the proposal, but we would also like to call on the Minister to look at the spacious labour market. And it must surely also be the case that, in the future, when such arrangements are made, the inclusive labour market should be included, including those who cannot work full-time, but who would like to continue, even after they have been able to retire. That is, of course, a new way of paying it, but I think the Minister should look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134938	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Bent Bøgsted as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205134955	Thank you for that, President. After all, this bill is a proposal that gives a tax-free senior premium to people who were born on 1 January 1954 or later when they retire, no matter when they retire. For those born on 1 January 1954, the retirement age is 651⁄2 years. It falls here from 1 July, when the law comes into force, but also in the future, you get a premium the first year you are on the labour market. We in the Danish People's Party really think this is an excellent idea in order to encourage people to stay a little longer in the labour market. Of course, how many people would like to make use of this proposal is hard to judge. Maybe it turns out it's a lot more than it's meant for. So we cannot say that in advance. In the Danish People's Party, however, we at least think that this is an excellent arrangement, which we naturally support.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135105	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135119	Thank you. And thank you to the previous rapporteurs for reviewing the content of the draft law. As described, this bill implements part of the 2019 Finance Law Agreement. Specifically, it is a question of introducing a tax-free senior premium, which should make it more attractive to take one year extra into the labour market, even if you are actually entitled to retire. The Left believes that the proposal is a good one. We would like to make it more attractive to remain an active part of the working community, even if you have reached the retirement age. We need more hands, and it is very gratifying that we can lure more seniors to stay a little longer in the labour market. Because we need those who want to and can to actually take an extra turn, and with this scheme we are creating an increased incentive for this very thing. And I think that's a really nice way to do it. So there is full support from the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135239	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then the ride's come to sir. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135252	Thank you. I'll start by saying hello to you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Unfortunately, he has had to leave the Chamber here, so I should like to greet him and from the SF and say that they are voting against this bill. So does Enhedslisten. That is one of the most intensely superfluous and indifferent things one has seen for a long time. You want to use approx. 170 million kr. to ensure that by 2020 636 people will remain on the labour market, what else they would not do. But with this prize, you're gonna lure them to stay a little longer on the labour market, another year. I mean, it's totally out of proportion. At the same time, the tax relief will be granted to approx. 5,000 people who would have stayed on the labour market anyway. It is quite fantastic that this kind of money should be gagged, especially when you think that the group of people you then want to reward here has already been rewarded with various schemes that reward people who stay longer in the labour market, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which we have just adopted. You may receive a waiting allowance for the old-age pension according to the rules on pension set up to mention a few things. No, what we have to do is reject this bill and then agree that those 170 million. kr. to be used to arm up in the Factory Inspectorate. I guess we can get about. 350 years' work in the Labour Inspectorate. We will then be able to correct the many cuts that the Danish Labour Inspectorate has experienced over the past many years. And then we could do something for those people who can't stand to be in the labour market until they can retire. After all, 3F points out in the hearing answer in all silence that 20 per cent. of their members have left the labour market before their 60th birthday. Either they have died or are worn out and cannot be on the labour market for that reason. Now, that would be a profile that would bear something, also in relation to the desire of the parties behind this proposal, namely that we want to make it attractive for people to stay longer in the labour market. Well, let's spend the money on it instead of climbing them away to somebody who'd stay there anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135526	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then I give the floor to Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135532	Thank you for that, President. Of course, in the Liberal Alliance, we think this is a very good proposal. We are in a situation at the moment where our companies lack labour. They need more people to stay longer in the labour market. They need to bring in foreign labour. They need hands. They must say no to orders at the moment because they do not have enough employees. And when they say no to orders, it means that Denmark becomes poorer. That is why it is very good that there is at least a majority in favour of putting out some financial incentives, so that our seniors have such an advantage in staying longer in the labour market. And, of course, we support that in the Liberal Alliance. We are also pleased to see that, for example, the Social Democratic Party recognises that economic incentives work and that they also believe that if you get a tax-free premium, you will stay longer in the labour market. And it could be that we should look at whether we should not also spread it out to all sorts of target groups other than just the seniors. At least we're ready for that in the Liberal Alliance. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135647	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135654	Thank you very much. The proposal is about motivating those who can stay a little longer in the labour market to stay there by means of a small carrot. We shall vote in favour of this in the alternative. We lack, as has been said, labour, at least in some industries, and the fact that we give people a carrot to stay a little longer, we think we are the right way to do it, the right type of incentive structure. We would rather have voluntaryness and carrots instead of coercion and whip. Unfortunately, we often see the opposite, for example. with the ceiling on cash benefits, where people are being forced into the labour market, even though they are not even ready for work, by putting them into cash benefits, by taking their help from them, for example. their housing allowance, and we think that's the wrong way to do it. So it is clear that you can raise a social flag and say: well, what about the worn out; what about all those who need to get away from the labour market because they cannot cope with the pressure because they are stressed because they are hurting their health? However, one does not rule out the other, and we are ahead of the next debate, which is a broad question about pensions, about differentiated pensions, about the working environment, about all the things we are going to do and which seem promising in terms of helping people who have left too much of their health in the labour market so that they can have a little more survival when they become pensioners. But the alternative supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135828	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it's mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135841	Thank you. The proposal provides for a tax-free senior premium in order to stay 1 year longer on the labour market for people who have reached the age of retirement. This proposal directly affects our current need for hands on the labour market, and hopefully it also plays a part in the need to create a inclusive labour market, where people who have reached the age of retirement are also more likely to feel welcome. Radicals support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135916	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Well, that's the ride to sir. Erik Lund as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205135926	Thank you, sir. President. This is gonna be my last speech from Parliament's platform this time. Mette Abildgaard will return here on Thursday, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the rapporteurs with whom I have worked and ministers. It's been a pleasure to be in here. After all, this bill deals with proposals for tax-free senior prizes. Denmark continues to face major challenges when it comes to providing sufficient labour in the future. That is why we must have all the good proposals and initiatives on the ground, including when it comes to getting some seniors to postpone their pensions and work a little longer. It is therefore a very good move that the government and Dansk Folkeparti as part of the Finance Act have agreed to introduce a tax-free senior premium of DKK 30,000. for persons born on or after 1 January 1954 who work at least 1,560 hours within the first 12 months of retirement age. Conservatives fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140026	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have come to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140036	Thank you to the many positive comments that have been made to the draft tax-free senior premium bill, which translates the agreement that we have made in the Financial Act for 2019. The aim of the tax-free senior premium is, after all, to strengthen the incentive for employment for seniors who work after they have reached the retirement age. With the bill, persons working on an average of at least 30 hours per week, i.e. At least 1,560 hours in the first year after the retirement age, obtain a tax-free senior premium of DKK 30,000. The scheme covers persons born on or after 1 January 1954. The intention of the scheme is, of course, to get more seniors to continue their work, including in their senior lives. The scheme must also be easy to manage and therefore, as a starting point, the scheme will be based on a register-based procedure, both in relation to the definition of the target group entitled to the senior premium, the calculation of pay hours and the payment of the premium. That is why I think that in many ways there is reason to be happy today. It is a very, very good agreement that has been made, and indeed also an agreement for which we owe a great deal of thanks to the Danish People's Party. It is no secret that the Danish People's Party has repeatedly brought this up in the political negotiations, and now a political agreement has been drawn up which guarantees this opportunity. It's a really, really good day for our seniors in every way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140214	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan Johansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140217	Thank you. We say 'yes' to the proposal, but I asked the question from the platform: why has the inclusive labour market not been considered? After all, there are people in the spacious labour market who have flex jobs or are in reduced time and who may have got a job they can do one more year. But they can't pick up any winnings, because they can't work 1,560 hours. Has the Minister thought that we also need to think about the inclusive labour market in the future much more than we do today, because we will need all the forces in the labour market? They must, of course, be part of the labour market, even if they do not have full time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140302	This isn't a question of either or, it's a boat and... In other respects, we have promoted the inclusive labour market. Now, in broad agreement with the Social Democratic Party, we have made a very good pool agreement, I think, in the area of the Ministry of Employment, where we are now going to give much more money, for example. people with a greater handicap access to the Danish labour market in order to promote their labour market participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140329	Well, of course I commend that too. I'm just trying to go one step further, sir. Minister. We must bear in mind that we would also like to employ more people in the labour market who cannot provide 100%, but would like to be there in a job where they have the care that needs to be done so that they can stay longer, and perhaps even after they have retired. They're not gonna get a share in this pool. So I think the Minister should think a little bit about getting the spacious into the legislation he is making, including in the legislation on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140404	Now the bill is as it is, and I think, in many ways, that it is a very good legislative proposal. But at least I don't disagree with Mr. Knox. Jan Johansen says that we must also constantly consider how to ensure even better conditions in the inclusive labour market. It's not each other's opposites. I am therefore prepared to take further initiatives in addition to those we have taken in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140424	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140438	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 7 February 2019. And then I ask the rapporteurs to roll in place up here in the front rows. Now there is really an opportunity to advance in the ranks of this Chamber. The minister can also come forward. And we need to get the technology in place so that we can hear what people say when the debate starts. I'm waiting for a clear message. Are we ready? Good. Then we start the debate, and the first thing we need is a reason for the question, and it is given by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205140727	Thanks, and it comes here. This request debate was convened on 11 December 2018. The occasion was an article in Avisen.dk, where the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, could no longer see any good argument for the port worker to work for many more years than the academic before he can retire. We were glad to hear that in the Enhedslisten. We took it as a recognition by the Social Democrats that the so-called welfare agreement, with the drastic increases in retirement age, has created a problem which has now been seen. From the outset, we have criticised that agreement for being bottom-up because it hits hard among those who enter the labour market early on and hits more and more groups as the retirement age is raised. We thought that there may now be a chance at last that we can have a real discussion, not whether something should be changed in that welfare agreement, but what should be changed and how we can do it. That is why we called for this debate, which has only become more topical. 14 days ago, the Social Democratic Party presented its seven principles for a differentiated retirement age. It set a political avalanche in motion, so a great deal of thanks to the Social Democratic Party for having come up with a proposal. After a week of reflection, the Danish People's Party said that they would also go to the polls at a differentiated folk pension age. The Danish People's Party then urged the Prime Minister to quickly convene the conciliation circle behind the welfare agreement in order to get a quick clarification before the parliamentary elections. The Prime Minister took on the task. Other parties have also made their bid in the wake of this, and we cannot have a better basis for a question debate. The debate today is probably far more than usual, so welcome to all those who have had to look at it. By means of several measurements, the population has made its point very clearly. A clear majority of the population is opposed to raising the retirement age to 67 years. A majority is opposed to it increasing in line with the average life expectancy. It is, moreover, an equally large majority and a clear majority says 'yes' to differentiated national pensions. This is, of course, a completely different path than most parties in this House intend to go, so I am very much looking forward to hearing what the various parties will actually do about the major problem created by the increasing retirement age compared to a labour market that expels far too many long before retirement age. I also look forward, of course, to the Minister's answer to the question, which is this: what can the Minister say about the possibility and consequences of introducing a differentiated retirement age or other rights for early retirement from the labour market, which is based on the number of years in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205141013	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the explanatory statement. Then we will have an answer and it comes from the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205141023	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Enhedslisten for giving us this opportunity today to discuss an important and topical subject which is on the political agenda and which we have indeed discussed in the past in this Assembly. It is not the case that we have not had this discussion before. Let me start by saying that pensions play a crucial role in a secure future. Pension is our promise of security when we get older. There should be no doubt that the government takes very seriously the security of the Danes. As stated in the 2019 Finance Act agreement, the government is concerned that the pensioners should have a better standard of living. This is also why we have made an agreement with Dansk Folkeparti on among others. The theme of better conditions for folk pensioners. At the same time, I am also very concerned to ensure that as many people as possible are part of the working community, but we must also ensure good solutions for those who cannot be on the labour market until retirement age. In 2015, there was broad support here in the Danish Parliament for the principles of lifetime indexing from the 2006 welfare agreement and I am pleased that the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party continue to stand by that agreement. The indexation means that the increasing lifetime of the population is reflected for several years in the labour market as a key factor in financing our welfare society. We have then, as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentions, seen from the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and also most recently the Radical Left about the possibility of withdrawal from the labour market. But it has to be said that there are now a great many unanswered questions to be answered, and I think that the political debate is also important. It is difficult for the Danes to understand exactly what some of the parties want to have that applies, who it should apply to and under what conditions, and of course also how it is financed. However, as Finn Sørensen also said, the Prime Minister has quite clearly said that the government is sensitive to proposals for solutions that take care of those who cannot manage to work until retirement age, and therefore it is also the case that a meeting of the Ministry of Employment has been convened here later this week with a view to discussions among the conciliation parties behind the welfare agreement. In fact, I am very much looking forward to the meeting where the parties here can both deepen their proposals and hopefully also respond to some of the questions that need to be answered so that we can move forward in the political discussions. But having said that, I think that is a good way of starting these discussions now. For me, it is important that we ensure calm and security about the Danes' withdrawal. Let me also make a few comments on Enhedslisten's question. Two years ago we discussed a similar question from the Enhedslisten, which I think was called B 113, and here before Christmas I also had the pleasure of discussing the issue of the future retirement age of Danes in relation to F 6, S 300 and S 301. We discussed, among other things. the consequences of an increase in the retirement age, which is why I think it makes sense to repeat some of the points I made to a certain extent. It is true that if you cannot work for health reasons, you must of course have the opportunity to work less or leave earlier. Here are the opportunities that we have today, of course, we must note, not necessarily quite good enough. We must, among other things. recognize that the senior pre-retirement pension is not working as intended. There are far fewer than expected when the scheme was adopted, which uses the scheme and is awarded a senior early retirement pension. But, of course, the fact that fewer people than expected have taken advantage of the early retirement scheme must also be seen in the context of a change in the rules on early retirement and flexible work before the retirement pension came into force. But it must also be noted, if you look at a senior early retirement pension, that many municipalities have a very different practice in relation to the award of a senior early retirement pension. There are also municipalities that have not granted a senior early retirement pension, and it seems that there are also some municipalities that have not actually understood the framework for senior early retirement. So there is work here that requires a political discussion. I am also pleased that flex jobs in a few hours have succeeded in getting more people to become part of the working community at a reduced time. Thus, in 2018, there were 13,500 years of +60 years counted as full-time people in flex jobs. And in 2018, three times as many flex jobs were awarded to people over 60 years of age as were awarded in 2011. This is actually a very good development. At the same time, many +60-year-olds have been granted early retirement. In 2018, there were approx. 59,000 full-time persons over 60 years of age who were on early retirement. It can, for example, be done. be persons who do not meet the requirement of long-term employment in the early retirement pension. And although the number of early retirement pensions awarded has decreased, in 2018, nearly 1,000 more early retirement pensions were granted to people over 60 years of age than in 2011. Overall, the figures show that for people over 60 years of age with reduced or no working capacity there are other ways to or out of the labour market than those agreed with the senior early retirement pension. And people also make use of these roads, but that doesn't change the fact that it can be wise to look at worn-out opportunities to retire. So it is also among other things. That is why the government set up a senior think tank some time ago to make proposals on how we can maintain more seniors in the labour market and create more quality in senior work. It is about supporting those who can stay longer and want to do so, but it is also about how we can prevent people having to leave the labour market early because they are worn out. It is now being worked out seriously and thoroughly in the think tank, where both the social partners, the Elders Case and others are represented, and it is a work led by Harald Børsting. In other words, I am also pleased that we are well engaged in the political discussions on a new health and safety effort, and I am particularly pleased that there is so much political will from all parties in the Folketing to take responsibility for ensuring a better framework for prevention. We need to focus on the need for the Danish jobs to be better at preventing employees from becoming physically and mentally worn out by being in the labour market. That is why I also hope that, with the current negotiations on a new political agreement on better working conditions in Denmark, we will be able to reach an agreement here in the coming months. In addition, we are also engaged in a thorough evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform, on which we actually had a long discussion here in Parliament before Christmas. And there we have also had a large number of thematic meetings with the parties behind that reform. And it is also my hope that, in the course of the coming month, we will hopefully be able to reach an agreement that will improve some of the challenges that the early retirement and flexible job reform has created, as we can see when we look at the evaluation. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that the government is responsive and has a focus on finding solutions that greatly, and perhaps also to a greater extent, benefit people who are worn out so that they will continue to receive the help they need in the future. We are fully committed to discussing this. And I also look forward very much to the Social Democrats presenting their answers to some of the many questions that can rightly be put to the challenge of social democracy. But let this be the case, because later this week we will be taking up political discussions, which I really look forward to very much and which I also think make good sense in relation to the challenges that we are facing in the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205141941	Thank you. One brief remark from each of the rapporteurs, that is to say, is now available. You guys up here in front. The others will have to wait for a later round. And the first person who wanted a brief comment is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205141958	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I just have to say that there are a lot of parties that have come up with a proposal on what we do for those who are worn out and have been many years on the labour market. After all, we know that a few years ago the government tried to increase the retirement age, we also know that parts of the government, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives cannot see themselves in what the Social Democrats have proposed, and we also know that the Prime Minister on Facebook has called our proposals electoral pork and everything else. I just have to say that now we have a government that has called for negotiations, and there were some things the Minister wanted to do in relation to our proposal, but what does the government think? Well, the government must have an opinion on it. How will the government help the worn out? We have not heard a word from the government other than that they will call for negotiations. So I would like to ask the Minister who is in charge of the government in this area: can we not just know what the government will do in relation to the worn out? How are they gonna solve it? We really do not have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142059	Then we are back to the problem that sometimes arises with Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that is, there is a problem with hearing. And I am sorry, but that gives me the opportunity to repeat what I said. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen knows very well that, in terms of improving our prevention, we are currently discussing a new working environment agreement. That is, of course, something that will apply in the long run, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen say in a moment, but prevention is one element in which the government is now taking the lead in the committee of experts set up to present new, improved conditions for prevention. Then I also mentioned that we need to take a critical look at the senior early retirement scheme and see whether it is designed in a sensible and appropriate way. That is the second point which I also think is important to emphasise here today. The third element, of course, is that in the area of early retirement and flexible work we are in the process of carrying out a very comprehensive evaluation, and I think we have had four or five thematic meetings, such as Mr Tugendhat's report. Leif Lahn Jensen has participated in and in which he has also asked many questions about the evaluation. So, it's not like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen may be surprised that initiatives have already been taken to address this important theme. But it is clear that it is not only the government that must have the right of initiative. The parties of the Folketing also have the opportunity to bid, which is why I am looking forward to now asking a whole series of questions about what the Social Democratic Party has come up with, in relation to principles which deserve loving treatment, too, in order to learn a little more about whether this is a sustainable solution that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142238	Thank you. The next brief remark comes from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142244	Thank you very much. I am glad, then, that the Minister recognises that the early retirement scheme is not working as intended and that something needs to be done about it. We have been waiting quite a long time for that. But there will also be an opportunity to discuss this in this Chamber on 21 February, when the Enhedslisten has called for a question debate on how the evaluation of the early retirement pension reform and flexible jobs is really going. But what we are discussing here today is the retirement age, and my first question to the Minister is: should the retirement age continue to rise as agreed between the conciliation parties? This means that by 2020 it will be increased to 69 years with effect from 2035 and so on; I think everyone knows these tables, where it ends up far beyond 70 years. The second question is about what has been asked here: what can the Minister say about a very specific principle which both the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten and also other parties have put forward, namely the introduction of genuine rights for former withdrawal based on an objective criterion of number of years in the labour market? That is what lies in the social democracy model, and that is also what lies in the Enhedslisten model. It would be nice if the Minister would reply to what the question is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142409	Well, now I think it went so well with Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen earlier in the day. What I am now giving an answer to is, of course, about the whole issue of pensions, but also, for that matter, about wear and tear. After all, I have the ambition that we must ensure that people can be on the labour market without being worn out. That is precisely the ambition that we must realise that we have the challenges of fulfilling. So says Mr. Finn Sørensen, that on 21 February we will talk about the other things. I shall not rule that out, because Enhedslisten has asked quite a lot of questions, but I can therefore also speak about it today, and the senior early retirement pension is part of this discussion. You don't make that go away. The senior early retirement pension, and how it has developed, but not least it, can be said that different practices that are around the country's municipalities, we will have to go after them. I have to say that it is certainly not quite clear to me what principles these are, such as Mr Beazley's report. Finn Sørensen is talking about. There have been various proposals on the table, but I do not think they have ever been concrete. Who should be included? How much is it? What are the conditions to be applied? I certainly need to see that in an expanded form.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142527	Then there is a brief remark from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142533	Thank you. In other words, there is no doubt that if we continue to bet on the same retirement age for everyone, this is an extreme inequality, and far too many people go straight from the construction site and home to bed when they reach retirement age. I guess we all agree that that is not fair. When there is so much focus on the senior early retirement pension, I think it gets a little character that we still have to work until we fall. I guess most people think it's fair enough to think that they have time for the grandchildren and time for leisure, too, when it's such that they can retire. So I am curious to hear what the government's ambition is, compared to how many good retirement years we should all be entitled to with the optimal pension reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142620	At the very least, I would like to start by saying to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that the good news is, fortunately, that our lifetime is increasing. That is also why we have made the welfare agreement. It is an expression of the fact that we are going to live longer, and that is really, really, really good, because it means, in all respects, that we will have a longer life. That is why the parties that are behind that agreement have also said that when you come to live longer, you must also have contributed to society longer. Otherwise, you will find yourself in a situation where future generations will have a quite different economic challenge from those of us who are present in this Chamber today. It is basically a question of what can be called solidarity, a word which I think Mrs Kirsten Normann is also aware of. For me, this is a sad discussion. I have no ambition to work until you fall down. I have the clear ambition that if you are worn out, you must have the opportunity to withdraw from the labour market. That is why it is possible to discuss early retirement, but for that matter, as I have mentioned here today, we can also discuss early retirement. One can have an acute problem at the age of 48, which means that one must have the opportunity to leave the labour market. And that is not necessarily an answer that is then found in relation to some kind of differentiated retirement age. That is why we need to discuss all the elements. And we also need to discuss how our working environment is improving. And I know from a lot of consultation with Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that this is an issue that the SF is also concerned with.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142754	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142758	Thank you. As I have followed this case, the Social Democratic Party made a pension proposal that deals with the differentiated retirement age first in, first out. My feeling was that DF somehow approximated it. I may be wrong, but my feeling was that there was some kind of openness on the part of the Left at least in the press and negotiations have been called for. Is it the case that the Minister will confirm that I am right that it seems that there was a kind of rapprochement from the Left to a differentiated pension model, in other words where those who have been the longest in the labour market can also get out first?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142835	In other words, what I have said, and as the Prime Minister has also said, is an approach to discussing this important issue. That is also why we have invited negotiations here later this week. Because we think that makes sense, but we also think that we need to sit down with the parties that have made a political agreement in the past and then discuss the challenges we face in the short but also a little longer. If it was that we didn't want to discuss this, we wouldn't have called a meeting, you might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142902	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205142905	Thank you and thank the Minister for her reply. We know, of course, that this is a very important issue on which we have a debate, an issue that means a great deal to a great many people on the labour market. In this context, however, there have been many different reports from different parties, and I would really like to hear: where does the Minister for Employment see the biggest problem in terms of staying longer in the labour market, wearing out, withdrawing from the labour market because you are worn out? Where is the main problem and what, in the view of the Minister, is most important to address? Is this the way you work with wear and tear, or is it the question that you should also take care of this senior early retirement pension? Or what is it? Should we just look at setting aside a number of years in relation to how long you can be on the labour market and then be able to retire, as S is out with? Where does the Minister see the most important problem, the most important issue, in this debate? What's this all about? Can the Minister say anything about this at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143022	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143029	At least I'd like to try that. After all, there are two themes that we need to address and which I believe will change in the future. There is both the discussion about the physical wear and tear, but for that matter there is also the discussion about the mental wear and tear, i.e. the psychological work environment. I therefore believe that, if we look forward to the future, we will see far greater challenges in relation to the possibility of remaining in the labour market, because we will see ever-increasing groups that will be affected by the mental wear and tear. That is why I think that there are a number of things that need to be discussed now. One is how to ensure better prevention than that which we have to say that changing governments have been able to present to the employees of the country. That is the first question. The second question is also, of course, that we must note that we have different discussions, both here in the Danish Parliament, but also around the country's workplaces, with the country's companies, that we have some arrangements today that do not necessarily work according to the political intention in which they were established. Senior early retirement is an example, and we are also discussing early retirement and a very different municipal practice. After all, I myself took the initiative to correct the whole debate on resource progression and early retirement that we had a discussion about a year ago, I think, and we are now in the process of a fairly large mapping of how we can then improve the early retirement and flexible job reform. But it will also be and it is the third discussion of what it is then that is needed to have a society that will be future-proof. Because, if that is the case, both expenditure and income must also be managed in order to have a sustainable society in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143223	Thank you very much, Minister. No more rapporteurs have been signed up right now, so we move on to the debate and the general rules apply to short remarks. The first rapporteur on the platform is the rapporteur on the questioners, Mr President. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143245	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for your reply. Why is this debate necessary? Because we already see thousands of people today who cannot get stuck in the labour market until the current retirement age. They go out long before time, either because they are worn out or because they lack the necessary qualifications. Of course, this problem is only getting worse as the retirement age is raised. It also raises questions that we hear time and time again at meetings in jobs, in trade unions and in educational establishments. Why do we have to work until we're worn out or until we drop dead? Why should those who enter the labour market early on not be entitled to as many good years after working life as those with long education and high wages? What should all the people who get out of the labour market long before retirement age live on, given all the constraints on unemployment benefit, early retirement, early retirement, sickness benefit and cash benefits? That is the kind of question you hear when you move around in the population. Those questions have not yet been answered by the conciliation parties behind the welfare agreement. Nevertheless, they insist that the retirement age should continue to rise. They are simply engaged in a gigantic breach of promise to the people. The welfare agreement said that the retirement age should increase in line with the average life expectancy. That is wrong in itself, but there were, after all, some prerequisites in that agreement. The many billions saved by raising the retirement age were to be used for welfare and better working conditions, it was said. It was also a prerequisite that the early retirement scheme would be maintained. The two prerequisites broke the VK government in 2011 when it entered into the so-called withdrawal agreement with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Radical Left. The agreements on the increase in retirement age agreed in the welfare agreement had to be brought forward by five years, i.e. a much faster phase-in. At the same time, the early retirement period was reduced to three years. The parties also agreed that the many saved billions could not only be used for, among others. welfare, but also tax relief. All of this was written into the foundations of the Thorning Government in 2011, and after the 2015 elections a new settlement was reached in which the Social Democratic Party attached itself to these principles. The conclusion is that the promise to increase the retirement age has been kept to the letter, but welfare has not improved, on the contrary. That's not so strange. Shifting governments have squandered their money into tax cuts to the extent that they could finance a retirement age of 65 years. It has gone the same way with the promise to prevent wear and strengthen the working environment. The last two major studies on the health and working environment of the Danes show that both physical and psychological wear and tear have increased since 2012. The Factory Inspectorate has lost one in four employees since 2007, and the number of visits and orders on the companies has decreased accordingly. Now the boat must be turned around if it is not to go completely wrong on the Danish labour market and completely wrong on the people's confidence that the Folketing is able to secure the framework of good working life and good life at all. That is why I look forward to hearing the parties' bid for what they will do. The Enhedslisten has long since made his bid. Firstly, we must stop the increase in retirement age. It's not supposed to be a day over 67 years. Secondly, we must introduce a right to early withdrawal from unemployment benefit after 40 years in the labour market and 35 years in the cash register, and a right to partial withdrawal after 35 years in the labour market and 30 years in the cash register, a system which can be reduced in time and supplemented by the absence of hours of unemployment benefit. These rights must apply until the age of retirement. Thirdly, we must improve the opportunities for early retirement and early retirement for those who are so worn out or ill that they cannot obtain the right to early retirement. Last but not least: massive investment must be made in the working environment and training rather than the reduction policy that has prevailed in these areas for many years. Finally, I will read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the SF and Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that various proposals for differentiated retirement age and early retirement rights have been made. The Folketing considers that this is a positive development which allows the Folketing to provide good answers to the public's concerns about the increasing retirement age. Parliament therefore calls on the government to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations with a view to reaching an agreement before the parliamentary elections, which will ensure a safe and sound working life for all and equal opportunities for a dignified end to working life. V 66). The message in this proposal for adoption is clear enough: it is not right to turn the debate on such important issues into a closed party in a conciliation circle. History shows that the parties in this circle cannot carry out the task. That is why all parties in the Folketing must be involved in these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143754	Can the Secretariat have the proposal for adoption? Finn Sørensen The Secretariat is free to do so, Madam President. Thank you. I have, for the time being, two comments to make briefly, and the first one is Mr Beazley's report. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143808	Thank you. Now, it's like Mr. Simpson. Finn Sørensen is coming along, of course nothing new, because that is what was in the motion for a resolution which forms the basis of the call for questions here, about a differentiated retirement age from 40 years on the labour market and 35 years in an unemployment fund. I'm just gonna check with you about Mr. Cole. Finn Sørensen believes that a retirement age of 56 should then be introduced? I started working at the age of 15 and would have lived up to what Mr. Finn Sørensen says at 56. Now I've gotten into the Folketing, and I guess this isn't the case, but if I had stayed out on the labour market, would I have been able to retire at 56? Is that how it's supposed to be understood? There are, of course, plenty of nuances in such a thing. How does Mr. Finn Sørensen? Because when I was 56 years old, I would have lived up to what Mr. Finn Sørensen said.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143907	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205143910	Thank you. I'm gonna try again. I think I said that in the rapporteur's speech, but I will try again. We say: Stop increases in retirement age. Now we are on our way to the 67 years, and then we say: Stop there, the retirement age should not be higher than 67 years. But even today, thousands of people cannot stand on the labour market until the age of 65. Those people must have an opportunity to obtain a right to a retirement pension earlier than the retirement age, and that is what our model is for, namely that if you have been 40 years on the labour market and 35 years in your unemployment insurance fund, you will have the right to be able to retire on unemployment benefits until the retirement age. Similarly, if you have been 35 years on the labour market and 30 years in an unemployment insurance fund, you have the right to go down in time. Of course it requires an agreement with the company and then get the allowance for the missing hours until the retirement age, but of course not after the retirement age. That is our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144018	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144021	Thank you. Well, then I get it a little bit better, 'cause it's like, like, sir. Finn Sørensen said that if I had stayed on the labour market and had been 40 years on the labour market and 35 years in an unemployment insurance fund, I should have been able to go on unemployment benefits from the age of 56 and until I was 67. 11 years on cash benefits. That's kind of it, sir. Finn Sørensen says. Then I get it. It was just to get an understanding of what it was really about. I understand that now.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144054	That's right. That is what our model is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144056	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144102	Thank you. The age of 67 must be the age of retirement if it is up to Enhedslisten. Right now it is 651⁄2 years old, so the retirement age must be raised if Enhedslisten is to have his policy implemented. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I would like to ask how Enhedslisten feels about what the Social Democratic Party is proposing as a retirement pension if you have worked 40 years. Because what Enhedslisten is proposing is cash benefits. So for me, there is a difference between whether you can get a retirement pension of DKK 6,300. per month, or that is the daily allowance, which is DKK 18,600. Or in that layer. So I would like to ask Enhedslisten how you respond to the proposal we are now hearing from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144206	Thank you. First of all, I would like to comment on this issue of the retirement age. The Enhedslisten voted against when it was increased from 65 years to 67 years. We also voted against it when it was increased from 67 years to 68 years, and I wonder whether we are voting against it in 2020, when it is in the cards that it will be increased to 69 years? We thought 65 years was an excellent retirement age. Now we just say: yes, okay, the retirement age is heading for 67 years, and from a historical perspective it has also been there before for many, many years, so we will be able to defend it if it goes there, but then it should not be another day either. Social democracy's proposal? Yes, there is reason for us to maintain our own, and one of them is, of course, the benefit. We agree with the Social Democratic Party that we should have rights based on years on the labour market, but we do not think it is particularly attractive that we should be able to withdraw from a retirement pension rate. We think we owe it to those people to give them a slightly better level of dependency.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144306	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144309	Now the interesting question could be: How will the Enhedslisten finance our rising costs of health and care for the elderly and for primary school in the future? But I've probably given up getting a really good answer to that. But then I have to ask Enhedslisten: does the Enhedslisten not agree that if you can, then you should contribute to our common welfare, that is to say work and also work a little longer than you have done in the past? Now Enhedslisten proposes that the retirement age should be 67 years. It's not even today. So does the Enhedslisten not agree in principle that if you can work, you should also contribute to the community?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144358	Well, that's the basic point of view that I think lies in any society. What is the question is what is put into it, because what I think the rapporteur thinks is that people will be forced to work longer than they can by means of so-called economic incentives, which is that the retirement age will fade in the distant future, as well as after-pays. That's probably the difference between our view of these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144425	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205144436	Thank you. This is an extremely important matter, so thank you to the Enhedslisten for the question. We need to talk about this, and this is also very topical, as a number of parties and the press are starting to take an interest in it. So that's super good. Today we are discussing whether we really believe that people who start with hard physical work, from being young and leaving school, can work as long as they have to in relation to what we have agreed in this Parliament. About a bricklayer, about someone who drags luggage at the airport, about a social and health care worker, to take just a few examples, because I can mention many more people who have worked hard every day, in the future can work until they are well over 70 years old, is what we need to discuss. The answer is, of course, that some can, but the vast majority will feel it on the body, and a lot of people will have pain and take painkillers just to be able to endure being at work while others will succumb and could not. One might ask oneself: can it be that these people who have been working and dragging for so many years will experience the last years on the labour market as a painful and terrible time if they can at all be on the labour market? One might also ask oneself: can it be true that, firstly, they are not as old as other contemporaries with another job and, secondly, that their old age and pension, if they even reach that age, are not particularly worthy, because they cannot and have the opportunity to enjoy their pension in the same way as everyone else, that is, because they are simply in pain? There may also be a reason why the vast majority of Danes can actually see this problem and that they are worried about their old age that we heard the other day. There is probably also a reason why even the backland of the Left, the town council politicians, believe that a problem has been created for these people to whom we have to relate. We do not think it is worthy and we believe that we politicians are obliged to listen to these people and help them to have a dignified life and a dignified old age. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party have just come up with our proposal, which I think most people know. We do not believe that you should run around to all kinds of impossible work tests if you feel worn out because you have been working for many years. That is why, of course, we will also give these people the right to retire a few years before, if they so wish. It is important for us to say that it is only if they want it, because we want people to work as long as possible, and that we therefore stick to the retirement age that we agreed in the welfare settlement. However, we must also note that the rising retirement age is adversely affected. It hits very badly for some, and we do not think that is fair. There are a lot of debaters and others who are trying to talk this problem down, but from my own experience as an old port worker who has been working hard for many years out there since I left school, I have no doubt what this means. And when I look at my former colleagues at the harbor and see what it does to these people to work since they left school, in hard work, I have no doubt at all. Of course, it is hard for a person to work hard for many years, and I think that to claim something else would be deeply strange... either because you don't understand it or you don't want to understand it. Is it possible to change this politically? Well, I think I can be very unsure about that when you listen to the bourgeois. The Conservative and Liberal Alliance would prefer to phase out the post-retirement pay to finance tax relief, and it was only two years ago that the government, with the Prime Minister in the lead, proposed to increase the retirement age compared to what was previously agreed. And most recently, in a facebook update, the Prime Minister has also called our proposal for election pork wrapped in nice paper. Well, it just says a little bit about it, doesn't it? So I would say that it does not look very easy to get the government to understand how skewed our retirement age is getting and that we also have to do something. It seems to be uphill, and it's going to be difficult, but it has to be tried. I would like to say that, of course, I am pleased to see that the red block can see the sense of this. Okay, of course there are nuances, and that's it. However, it is also gratifying to see that not least the Danish People's Party supports our proposal and also supports the funding, where banks and the wealthy will be involved in paying past pensions to worn out, and that they are even ready to bypass a bourgeois government to get our proposal through. I am very happy about that, and I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for it and look forward to the negotiations. Then I will read out the Social Democrats' proposal for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament welcomes the fact that the Danes live longer and, as we grow older, it is natural that the retirement age also increases. The vast majority can and want to work longer. But the Folketing also notes that there is a group that is worn out. As a result of the deterioration in early retirement, the worn out no longer have the possibility of a dignified withdrawal from the labour market. The Folketing is obliged to take care of this. In this context, it is noted that the Government will call for negotiations on the labour market situation. Parliament calls for a differentiated retirement age to be introduced so that those who have been longest in the labour market and are most worn out will have the right to withdraw from the labour market earlier. • V 67).
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145006	Thank you. I'd like to ask that too. Thank you. There are four comments to be made to the rapporteur, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145017	Thank you very much and thank you for your speech. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the increasing retirement age is adversely affected and that this is not a dignified way of treating people who are getting into the labour market early and who are working their whole lives. But then I just do not understand why the premise of the Social Democrat proposal is clearly that the retirement age should continue to increase, as has been agreed with the other parties in the welfare agreement. For that means that the 17-year-old bricklayer, who otherwise has a 75-year-old retirement age under the welfare agreement, can be allowed to escape when he is 72 years old. The three years are, of course, very good if he lives so long, but if it's about him having to drag himself through and take painkillers from the mid-60s or even in the late 50s, as many builders do today, is it worthy? I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party will not deal with what is the basic problem here, namely that the retirement age will just keep rising from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145136	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen for the question. Of course, if you get older and you can work longer, you also have to do so. I also have to say to Enhedslisten that it is also what we have decided in the welfare settlement that actually helps to pay a lot of the welfare that Enhedslisten also helps to share when they have the opportunity. At the same time, I also have to say to the Enhedslisten that if we are to follow the Enhedslisten's proposal, I think, according to what I think we have been told, I can retire on unemployment benefit in two years' time. Can we really afford that? I don't think we have. And can we afford all the welfare improvements we need? I don't think we have either. The good thing about this is that we'll also come with the recognition that this has gone wrong. We still believe that those who can should work longer, but this is getting wrong in that some people actually cannot, and that is why we are saying that those who cannot, those who have worked for many years, those who are being worn out, should have a helping hand, and of course they should not have to work for so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145236	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145238	Thank you. No, but they are being pressured to do so, as the retirement age rises from there. There are two options for those people: either they bite their teeth together and work until they fall dead, to put it a little brutally, or they let go of the handle and leave the labour market with the result that they have to live on cash benefits or no benefits. After all, this is the reality that affects many of the people who enter the labour market earlier and who are hitting thousands of 3Fs and people from other trades and industries already today, and the rapporteur does not solve this problem with his model. On the contrary, it helps to make things worse because the retirement age continues to increase from there, including with the help of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145333	I just think that sir... Finn Sørensen forgot the third option, and that is the third option proposed by the Social Democratic Party. The third possibility is that if you are in the labour market for a very long time, you can actually choose to say: now I have a right, I have the right to retire three years before and retire, and I can then choose to take it if I can feel that I feel bad and I can no longer feel it. It's going to cost 3 billion. kr., and we found that money, so we'd like to. I could not imagine, if we get there, that Enhedslisten will say no to it. They seldom say no to improvements, so I think they'll say yes to that. This is a third option, and I am actually very pleased that, hopefully, they will have that opportunity, because of course we need to find a majority for it first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145412	Right now there are six inscribed for short remarks. So a small appeal to help hold the minutes and seconds. The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145425	Thank you very much. And thank you to the Social Democrats for acknowledging that the pension system agreed by Helle Thorning-Schmidt with Anders Fogh Rasmussen is unsustainable with this rising retirement age. It is a good thing that this step has been taken. So thank you for that. After all, we are so little concerned about what really lies in improvements in the proposal. So just to understand it quite correctly: what improvements are there in the Social Democrats' proposal for your colleagues at the port of your age, who are members of the early retirement scheme in advance, who allow to go 3 years before with a benefit-like benefit? Is there any improvement for a port worker your age with the Social Democrats' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145514	What makes us make this proposal, I would like to say to Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted, is that we stay and I get really sorry when I've been around on company visits and seen former colleagues and also all sorts of others and seen how they hurt every single day and simply can't do their job. We in here have helped to make an increased retirement age, which means that they are lost. I believe that as politicians we simply have to take responsibility and say that we simply cannot be aware of this and we must help them. That is precisely why we are proposing here to allow them to retire three years earlier. It is clear that if they are on early retirement, it is a rather better arrangement than this one. 'Cause this is retirement. That is why I believe that a great many people will choose to continue to do so if they are well in the labour market. I think even I would, if I could, and be fine and have a fair wage. I'd do that. But here they actually get a right. That's what Mr. Pelle Dragsted should also bear in mind that there is almost only a quarter of the beneficiaries who have not chosen to skip the early retirement pension. So it may actually be that many of them at the harbor and many others have skipped it, so they have no option at all anymore. Here we then give them an opportunity again to retire 3 years earlier if they have chosen to sell their early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145622	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145624	If we look at the group that this is going to relate to, that is to say those that are from 55 years up, it is actually about 60%. by 3F members who are members of the early retirement scheme. However, I am counting on confirmation that, for those who are already members of the early retirement scheme, there is no change in what the Socialists are proposing. I think that some will be a little worried about that, because that means that the concern they have is certainly not being remedied by this. So can the rapporteur tell us what you have for these people? What do you have for those people, such as, uh... is 35 years old today and is a member of the early retirement scheme? Are they still going to work with this scheme until they are well over 70 years old, as my colleague Mr. Finn Sørensen also explained?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145720	One of the best schemes I know and love most is the early retirement scheme, and it really hurt when it deteriorated greatly. And it has more or less been abolished now. This means that there are a lot of people who don't have this early retirement. Those who have the early retirement must be super fond of it, and they must, of course, hold on to that. But there are some who do not have it, and these are actually the ones we are helping here. I think that is also extremely important, because yes, the early retirement was abolished. It made the bourgeois government back in 2010-2011, and it annoys me deeply. That's why we're saying, if only we had had that early retirement scheme, but we haven't, and that's why we have to do these things we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145750	Mr President, on a brief note, the next item is the debate on the report (Doc. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145756	Thank you. Then you can ask the rapporteur, since it hurt deeply, that the Social Democratic Party voted to regulate the early retirement scheme, why the Social Democratic Party did so. Well, the opportunity was there to actually keep an election promise. But the Social Democrats did not choose to do so. So we could just ask: why did Social Democracy do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145828	That's actually not right. The opportunity was actually not there. For even though we had the former Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen tilted by the stick in 2011, which was a great victory in itself, we work every day to repeat it, there was actually the majority after the election that unfortunately pointed to the Radicals, to the Danish People's Party and to the bourgeois parties. We had no opportunity to change it because of the majority that was when we had deteriorated the early retirement pension back in 2011. We didn't have a chance to change it. It was a black day when I stood here on the platform and helped do it, because it was really bad, but the voters had spoken. We could not escape that; it is, after all, a democracy in which we live. That is why we are now saying that we are going to change it because we are against what happened at the time. That is why I think it is very fair and proper for us to say that what happened at the time was not right. We fought against • trust me in 2010. I can't even remember what kind of civil minister suggested it was Claus Hjort Frederiksen or some other one, but we fought really hard. But it did not succeed, and that is why we are saying that it should now be, and it even seems that a majority is emerging if the Danish People's Party holds on. And now is the time to do it, so I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145929	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205145931	I do not think that the Social Democrats should make the proposal they have put forward now look like the early retirement scheme. As far as I know, the post-retirement wage is triple that what the Social Democratic Party is now proposing can be obtained. Then I just have to say that, yes, we live in a democracy. I find it strange that the Social Democratic Party, which was the head of that government for a number of years, did not come up with a better proposal if, frankly, it was a bad idea. But the last question I would like to ask is: how many of the worn-out people we have think the Social Democrats should benefit from the proposal put forward by the Social Democrats? How many worn out are they?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150014	What we have proposed here is that we give 3 billion. kr. That people get a right to retire earlier, if it is that they are worn out and have been out on the labour market for many years. So I am asked: what are we talking about, what kind of model is that? What kind of model does the government mean? I asked the Minister for Employment here not long ago, and the Minister for Employment replied: we are doing an early retirement assessment. There the Minister would not make a single proposal on the part of the government. We're looking at the working environment... not a word from the government about what it wants. The only thing I can figure out is that the government wants to take a look at the senior pre-retirement. We have a play here, but the government's play is that it takes a look at the senior pre-retirement pension. It can actually stand in a capsule: We take a look at the senior pre-retirement pension. That's all the government's reported out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150103	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150112	I have it with the reward and the social democracy, as with the father who says to his son: "It's for your own good, and then he's gonna slap the kid, so it's gonna swing." It may well be that the rapporteur was ill, but he voted in favour. And I will never forget the Social Democratic Party to vote to remove the post-retirement wage. It was a scandal that a Labour Party or a so-called Labour Party did so. I would like to hear: when the rapporteur says that the Social Democratic Party maintains the rising retirement age in the welfare settlement, even if it hits really wrong it is a direct quote... what the hell is the reason why the Social Democratic Party will not terminate the settlement? And I would like to ask: if any of the parties to the conciliation on the continued increase in retirement age are blocking the Social Democrats' proposals, will the Social Democrats terminate the conciliation before the elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150210	Do we slap people? Now I've talked to a lot of people after we've made this proposal. I have also talked to a number of trade unions, and I would actually say that they are super happy. You said: it is wonderful that the Social Democrats have come up with this proposal that is needed. When I talk to them and tell them about it, I don't think they look like somebody who's got a slap and has red cheeks. You're actually happy about it, so I don't know what kind of picture that is, sir. Christian Juhl is trying to draw. At least that's not the picture I get when I talk to people. So, I have to say to Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl: As I said, these people are happy about it, and now we have set an agenda that we have helped to take on this debate. Is this the first step, is that what we're going to do in the long term? Well, that's the first step. Now we've said we're going to find 3 billion. kr., and we've done that. And then we'll make sure these people can retire earlier. To make it sound like we're gonna slap them, I think it's thin. I don't think many of these people feel that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150310	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150312	My comment about the slap was about when you voted against the early retirement. What I am asking the rapporteur is: if the conciliation circle on the continued increase in the retirement age blocks the Social Democrats' new withdrawal proposal, will the Social Democrats terminate the conciliation so that there is a clean path to play after the elections, in other words if the conciliation parties block? Now I've repeated it three times, so I think it's cut out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150343	The problem is, Christian Juhl, that when you ask questions, you have to be careful not to ask too many people, because then I can't answer everything. But of course it is. What has happened in the past is that with the settlement we now have it was then with the bourgeois and Radicals and the Danish People's Party... they chose back in 2010 and 2011 to do something that was on the verge of the welfare settlement. They did. But I might as well say this as it is: we are going to go very far for this, because this is something we are very concerned about, either now, if we are called to negotiations and if we can have it negotiated within the next 24 hours or before the elections, we will do so or if we are going to do so after the elections. We're gonna go a long way because we're serious about this. People who are worn out because they have been on the labour market for many years must have the opportunity to have that right to retire earlier. I think I'm gonna say it pretty clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150431	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150435	Thank you very much. Well, in the alternative, we have been positive about the social democracy initiative right from the start, and we would like to negotiate within 24 hours or before the elections. So to get a little bit over the steppes and it's actually a friendly question, it's not polemical: has the Social Democracy come a little closer to how many years people must have been on the labour market before they can get out again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150501-2	No, we're not, 'cause this is hard. We have said that, of course, we want to talk to the social partners. We need to discuss seniority in relation to working hours, remuneration, occupational pensions, what I know. We don't want to spend more than that 3 billion. kr., period, and we also need to find out how much we can get for it, who it is, it matters how we ensure that it does not become an inequality discussion, i.e. a woman/man discussion, so it also becomes an opportunity for women. There are very, very many questions we need to ask different people, which is why it is very difficult to give an answer to them. But I also think it is clear, and that is at least something more than a capsule can be behind, which the government believes to say that we are actually going to give 3 billion. kr. to give people a right; people who have worked so hard since they were 17-18 years old; people who have worked hard and worked hard and who are worn out because they have just walked and worked for so many years. We want to help them, and we have found money for that. And I'm so happy, I think you can feel that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150607	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150608	Fair enough. Another thing we are discussing is how to calculate the working time that people have had for the time being, and there we are wondering what to count on. What about learning time, for example?? Is this something that the Social Democratic Party might consider counting in these 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 or 45 years or how much it is going to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150632	At first, when I was thinking about this, I thought a few years ago: this can't be so hard, there must be a ready-to-be model, but I've figured out that this is technically difficult. And with regard to what exactly needs to be counted, that is where we need to get the social partners across and see if there are any special groups that we need to bring with us. And what if we only have that money and that money, how do we hit those people who really need help? Unfortunately, I cannot give an answer to it now, and I also think it would be best simply to turn it around with the social partners. It is of course also easier when you have that big calculator in the Ministry of Finance and everything else, and if the government does not want to negotiate something in place, I hope, of course, the voters think about it, so that we get the opportunity to do it after the next election and get a really good result for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150714	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150719	Thank you. It was just before I was prevented by Leif Lahn Jensen's colleague down here from asking questions. I'm actually glad that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen in reply to Mr. Torsten Gejl actually acknowledges that it can be difficult to calculate this with a differentiated retirement age and where the limits should be, because it's hard to calculate how long you have to be in the labour market and what you've been doing and all that. I have also listened to the fact that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says that this is something that needs to be looked through well, because it is not so simple. But I think, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen came around a little lightly at the senior early retirement. It doesn't work, and that's it, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen himself has said. So I would like to ask: would Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen mind that it was withdrawn from the ordinary early retirement scheme so that it had its own platform in this way? And then I'm gonna have to ask you about this, about how you can go on a retirement pension these three years before your retirement age. I've heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's colleague says that it can be done in such a way that it is not dependent on the spouse's income, but what is the social democracy's view of it? Should it be independent of the spouse's income, or should it just be a scheme that runs like a regular national pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150845	Now, I don't know if I'm gonna be able to answer everything, but I can at least answer it if we want to look at the senior early retirement. I think I can look down at the Minister and others, and then everyone knows that as soon as I get a call or written about negotiating, we will be here immediately. We have always done so, and we will continue to do so. Should something be changed in the senior early retirement pension, and will there be any suggestions for it? We're always ready to look at that, aren't we? If this can help some people who are worn out, then we're ready to look at it. But that is not the same as saying that we are dropping the second proposal we have, because we think that is important as well. But you can easily drive in two tracks. One can easily look at the senior early retirement scheme and also say that those who have worked for many years must have the right to retire earlier. Because I think it is important that they can have that right. That is why you can easily drive in two tracks, I think you can, and we will also be ready to look at it. So, of course, we are just waiting for us to be invited to negotiations, and then we will be happy to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150942	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205150944	That is the answer to the question of whether you want to have a more relaxed approach to early retirement. Social democracy is so ready to look at that. I did not get a straight answer to the other question as to whether the old-age pension, which you can get three years before, should be independent of the spouse's income or whether it is just the ordinary old-age pension that you give there. Because I've heard from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's colleague said that it could be done in such a way that it is independent of the spouse's income. It's just to spell out what the situation is. Is this just the ordinary folk pension we're talking about here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151022	For those who choose to retire earlier, it is the ordinary retirement pension. What is then with everything else is what we have to negotiate when we get there, and I think that is fine. I hope that the Danish People's Party insists that they will support our proposal and that the banks will help to pay a right to a previous pension. I think that might be interesting, and it could even bypass a bourgeois government. At that time, we have to count on the questions which Mr. Bent Bøgsted is coming with us. We'll stay within the 3 billion. kr., we have nothing more than that. We'll have to figure that out, and then we'll have to see what options we have. And I was supposed to know Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted very badly if those questions do not come into a debate, and then we just have to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151100	The next brief remark is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151104	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate, because it is difficult with retirement age, but that does not mean that we should not be able to solve it. And it strikes me that longer life expectancy is, in some way, the gain of a better welfare society. So I wonder if it might be possible to imagine that the distribution of the prize would be a little different when we are talking about higher retirement age versus whether there are some who should be able to withdraw earlier. Today, you think it's one for you, that employers get the whole prize, but could you imagine a different distribution compared to a higher life expectancy, maybe 50/50 or 70/30 or to distribute it in another way? Because the higher the retirement age, the more we have to compensate the worn-out, so it might make sense if we could try to squeeze the lid a little the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151204	So all we say here is that if you've worked a lot of years and you feel worn out, you get the right that you can walk from x years earlier, 2-3 years, depending on what it ends up with. That's what you can choose. And we will hold on to that. And then, in relation to the welfare settlement, we will also stick to the fact that if you can work longer, you have to do it. Then you can ask what's fair. And there I would say that we've been looking at who's gonna pay these things... what we think is justice. Well, it's first the high taxes on very large wealth incomes and wage incomes for over 10 million. kr., and then it is also the financial sector that has to pay it. So it's actually really fair, because it's some of those who have the most and earn the most in this society who help to pay for those who are unskilled and who may not have a high salary, but who have worked hard since they were 17-18 years old, so fair, that they are helping to finance that they can leave earlier because they have been many years on the labour market. We insist that this is the right that you get. Then I just want to say that this is the first step in the right direction, and that is what we are doing now. And then we'll see if there's more to be done in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151311	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151313	I also have a lot of ideas about how to do this, too. In other words, a good working environment makes people hang around and that is an excellent incentive, which could also be used. But the logic of the higher retirement age, as I understand it right now, is that every time life expectancy increases by one year, the retirement age also increases by one year. Could one not imagine that one could share it a little more equally, because it would then also be able to compensate some of those who have actually had a really hard job, at least until we have managed to prevent wear and tear to the extent that we are still seeing it right now, for example. 50/50 or 70/30?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151350	Now we first stick to what we have now proposed, that if you have worked for a long time, you will have a right to leave the labour market before. Then it is clear that those who come to the negotiations can come up with many things. I also have to say that we need to remember that there is a clue next door. Right now we're sitting over at the minister's and trying to do a proper and good work environment. Some people are also talking about a change of track by having some arrangements in the companies there are senior schemes. We must remember that there is also a clue next door that is super important. But we think that the right to go earlier is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151426	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151431	The rapporteur is very much aware that this is a right to be able to go a little earlier on a retirement pension than it was pre-arranged. In this way it is very similar to the early retirement scheme; it was also a right. Nor should you be searched there; it was a right that you got when you came to age and age, if you felt tired, if you felt worn out. But you didn't have to hold a medical certificate in your hand to do that. So, in this way, the arrangements are somewhat similar. You can always discuss it, because of course it is an improvement that you can retire at 72 instead of at 75. But I would say that it is still very many years to have to be on the labour market. So why does the Social Democratic Party not stick to the early retirement scheme instead of proposing a reduced pension scheme? After all, the pension is a very, very reduced benefit compared with the early retirement scheme. So I cannot really understand why the living conditions of those who have to leave will be reduced in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151542	Before giving the floor to the rapporteur, I would just like to recommend to those who make television recordings on the public benches that they do not have active interviews, as it is not so clever that they can be heard down here in the Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151559	When it is so important for me as the Social Democrat rapporteur to say that it is a right, it is because it is a right. And I'm so super happy that we can introduce it here. When was the last time we gave people a right? I think that maybe the last time was with the after-wage when it was made many, many years ago. It just means so much to me that you give some people who are worn out, who have some problems, a right here. And that also applies to those who do not have the option of early retirement. This applies to people who do not have early retirement, or to people who have just been worn out and who have been out there for many years. It is a right that they are given which has something to do with seniority. And that's what's super important. And that's why I have to say it to Mr. Knox. Henning Hylllested, and that's why I say it over and over again. Because it means so much to me that we have chosen to say here and now: it is not a reform that has to pay itself. It is a right that costs 3 billion. kr. I really like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151646	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151649	That's what I don't understand. Now that the debate has arisen and when you can say that a window has come, why will you not help to secure everyone's right to leave, for example? On early retirement? It was an excellent arrangement. The rapporteur himself said that it was really sad that it had to die, that it was bombed to pieces. But that's the problem. So why not use the window that has arisen here now? One possibility was to terminate the settlement. Then the Social Democracy was completely free; so, one could start afresh and try to see if, after a parliamentary election, there was no majority in favour of perhaps reintroducing the post-retirement pay as we knew it. That would have been great. I hope that the rapporteur has taken note of the speech made by our joint Federal President, Per Christensen, in Jyllands-Posten, together with Mona Striib, who says that the 2006 welfare settlement should probably be revisited. Why does the Social Democratic Party stick to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151802	What I think has been very special about what we have proposed and I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested should notice that virtually none of the professional circles have opposed and said it is a bad idea. A lot of people have praised it, and it doesn't happen very often. I don't know if it's happened before, but they've actually done that because they can see it's a good idea. Today, pre-retirers can leave earlier, but here we are actually doing it, saying that others should be able to do it too. In other words, we also give everyone else a right, and I think that is important. Those who have not just paid for early retirement, but who are worn out, we give a right.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151837	Thank you. And there is one more for short remarks, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151845	Thank you. I noted that the rapporteur in an earlier reply to Mr Seligman's question. Christian Juhl replied that the Social Democratic Party would go a long way in considering whether to terminate the welfare settlement in order to achieve these improvements. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur could be a little more precise about what it means to go very far. Does this mean that it is really an opportunity for the Social Democratic Party to terminate the conciliation before the parliamentary elections, so we see just as Mr. Henning Hyllested was in on it, like can start over? - Sir... Leif Lahn Jensen clarify what going very far means in this context?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151925-2	I can do that. This means that the proposal we are making here, a right to retire earlier, will be implemented as quickly as we possibly can. If it's for debate here before the elections, that's what it is. Then we'd love to. I would hope, when we come to the Minister, that he will clap me on the shoulder and say that this is a very good proposal and that is what we are doing. At least I'll be in a great mood. But if we do not, we must do everything we can to ensure that it is implemented if we have a majority after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151953	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205151956	Yes, but now it is the case that, in the situation we are in now, there is like an electoral date which is quite landmark to what opportunities we have. And there I just have to hear the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is willing to terminate the conciliation. If you do not have a guarantee that you will be able to implement the social-democratic patchwork solutions after an election, will you be willing to terminate the conciliation if you cannot get a guarantee that this can be done within the welfare settlement? Otherwise, it is necessary to terminate the settlement before this election, if it is to be possible to complete it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152028	But it is a little strange, because it was not necessary for the bourgeois government when it did so in 2010 and 2011. That wasn't necessary. They could just do it. So that means no, we stick to the settlement. We think it is extremely important, but we will do everything we can to get this done because we mean it. That is also why we are doing it now, hopefully, but also after the next elections, because we actually think it is important that those who have been working and dragging for so many years should have this right. They deserve that. I just hope that very, very many people who insist that the Danish People's Party insists that Enhedslisten and the others support, and that we can then do something for these people, because I think they deserve that, because they have really worked hard.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks right now, so the next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152125	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for having called this inquiry debate. This is actually a very important debate. It is then on a slightly different background than the one originally there when Enhedslisten planned to convene the debate because the Social Democracy came up with their proposal, but it certainly does not make the debate any less important. On the contrary, it is a little more topical at this stage. There should be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party are seriously looking at the problems that are around wear and tear. It is not sustainable when we see that there are people who cannot cope with being on the labour market because they have to torment themselves to get through the day and do not have the opportunity to get away from the labour market in a good way. This can be done in many ways; it can be done on a senior early retirement pension, it can be done by retraining or a flex job. But we now believe in the Danish People's Party that there should be an easier approach to it, which is why we are a little saddened that the senior pension scheme was placed under the large umbrella of pre-time flexible jobs, because the intention was precisely to have a more relaxed approach, and when you were worn out in the job, you should be able to go to a senior early retirement pension. But that cannot be done at this stage, and that is why, of course, we have a desire for serious consideration to be given to how we can rectify it. When we look at how and how to be in the labour market, we see that, of course, social democracy has played out that three years before the retirement age one can choose to resign. There we have clearly stated that we are ready to look at the issue of social democracy. We have also said that we need some concrete information, but I also understand that it may be difficult to provide them at this stage, among other things. how to measure differentiated pensions, how long to be in the labour market, whether they are specific subjects, etc. You can easily find all sorts of models, but I have no confidence that you can have a differentiated retirement age where there are 10 or 12 different differentiated retirement ages, and I do not think that is what the Social Democrats are talking about either. But there is certainly something to negotiate. We in the Danish People's Party can see that this has been laid out in such a way that it is electoral pork and that it is just something that should be put out, and then nothing happens after an election: so that is why we also grabbed hold of the Prime Minister, and Kristian Thulesen Dahl called on the Prime Minister to call for a debate, because we think it is important to get something negotiated, and if we can get something negotiated before an election, we will have an easier approach to it, because otherwise all sorts of things will come in connection with an election campaign, and it may end up with nothing after all. So the serious thing is that we need to have something negotiated and, rather quickly, to find a solution to the problems of people who are worn out and who cannot be on the labour market after a long life on the labour market. So all the other things being equal, I think it is a good move that has come from the Social Democratic Party; there is something to negotiate and there are some proposals for an approach to some solutions in what we can see we can negotiate in place. Now the first meeting of the conciliation circle on welfare has been convened, and if the will of the parties is there, we can also find a solution quite quickly. It should not be something like this that has to be dragged over and taken months or years before we find a solution. We have also said on several occasions that it is impossible to talk about an increase in the retirement age without at the same time finding a solution to it with wear and tear. There are many things you can look at, and we are looking at the working environment and wear and tear at work, and we also know that the more aids you have, the less worn out you become. But we have some vintages that, no matter how many measures and improvements we make in relation to the working environment, are worn out already at this stage, and it does not help to say that we are finding a solution to the working environment. We have also set out to find a solution for the future, that is to say for those who enter the labour market so that they get more tools and do not get as worn down as my generation is today. But all the other things being equal, I think we have an important debate and we could easily have spent more than the five minutes we have now, but the time has passed, and I would like on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Radicals to put forward the following: proposals for adoption. • V 68).
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152653	Thank you. This is, of course, part of the further debate, as are other proposals for adoption. I can say that for the time being there are seven inscribed for short remarks. When I get up, it's because you've spent your seconds or your whole minute. There are a great many rapporteurs still on, so I would like to make a further appeal that at some point today we are going to finish this debate. The first to a brief remark is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152727	I think the rapporteur can see that we in the Social Democratic Party actually mean this. But what I can be in doubt about is what the government thinks and what the government actually wants. We haven't really heard anything about that. And then we've also seen in the newspapers and in the media that the Danish People's Party has said that if they can't get anything through with the government... if the government doesn't want anything with this... they're actually ready to bypass the government. So do I get it right? If the government doesn't want anything in this area, then the Danish People's Party is ready to bypass the government and negotiate with others. And also if it is so unhappy that we have a blue government after the next elections, then the Danish People's Party is ready to bypass the government that you then choose to support and then negotiate with the rest of us. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152815	Well, in the Danish People's Party we stand by what has been said. Because we believe it is important to find a solution to the wear and tear, even before an election. And how we find the solution and with whom we find the solution, we haven't locked ourselves in, so that, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has been out saying, stands all the way to believers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152837	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152840	I thought the rapporteur would say that. Does this also mean that the answer then is that if we have a bourgeois government after the next elections, when you point to Lars Løkke as Prime Minister, even if he does not really want anything in that area, then you will actually choose to negotiate with others if the bourgeois government at that time does not want to do anything in that area? That's what I hear. I'd like to confirm that, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152911	If you mention a minister by name, you have to name the whole name. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152916	But now it is the case that the Danish People's Party has announced that we would like to find a solution to the wear and tear, but I also do not think that we should take care or rejoice in advance. It may well be that the government will help to find a solution. Now the Prime Minister has called for negotiations, and we should not have a wrong attitude to it until we have learned what is going to happen in those negotiations. It could be that the Minister for Employment might be able to negotiate something, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen and I can see ourselves in. We don't know that yet, because we haven't started those negotiations. But I think we should give it a chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205152957	The next short remark is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153002	Thank you. I understand that, after a week of reflection, the Danish People's Party was quite quick in the political sense to adhere to the seven principles of the Social Democratic Party that there should be a differentiated retirement age. After all, it was precisely the Danish People's Party that, with the agreement in 2011, de facto helped to abolish the early retirement scheme. But then I would like to hear something else, because I understand the points made by the rapporteur with regard to the Factory Inspectorate, and I think that both the short and the long track need to be properly funded by the Labour Inspectorate so that we do not experience stop and go. What I want to ask is whether the Danish People's Party will be involved in this. The second part of this is where the Danish People's Party stands outside. Because when you said yes to weaken the early retirement scheme, you got the straw called the early retirement scheme, and that is just the right to a faster refusal; you had estimated that it might be up to 8,000 who could get the scheme, but there are only 700 who are using it today. Will the Danish People's Party, if given the opportunity, enter into negotiations on the early retirement scheme and thereby help to ensure that the early retirement scheme can reach the number it was planned to reach?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153113	Well, I actually think it's amazing to hear sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Because if I remember someone who promised something, I have to say that I remember Mr. Bjarne Laustsen during our debate in Aalborg, where Mr. Bjarne Laustsen promised that this withdrawal 3 years before the retirement age was independent of the spouse's income. That's not what I heard from mr. Leif Lahn Jensen up here from the platform, so there are many things in play in this regard. To this with the senior early retirement pension: When we made a scheme in 2011, a senior early retirement pension was also made, but there you were so kind in Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's party said that it was put under the big hat, so it actually became the same scheme as the ordinary early retirement scheme, which is why the senior retirement pension did not work. I'd like us to pull it out. It should have its own platform, it should be completely on its own and not be under the umbrella of early retirement and flexible jobs. So if sir... Bjarne Laustsen is ready to pull it out, we could find a solution to the senior early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153221	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153222	Thank you. Now we are not going to talk past each other, but the rapporteur did not have time to answer everything because he would rather answer something else, and that is the way it is. However, what I said at Vejgaard Hallen during the quite excellent meeting that was there was that, as far as the parties that would be involved in the seven principles that we presented when negotiating differentiated retirement pensions were concerned, I could not imagine anything other than that they could also influence how it was to be arranged. So when the Danish People's Party emphasizes the fact that there is too much set-off, it should be looked at as well as what I noted that it would be useful to make a partial reduction scheme so that a new system did not have to withdraw completely from the labour market for the three years but could work partially alongside it. That's what the words were.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153308	Yes, please. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153309	Now it's the case that sir... Bjarne Laustsen asks a lot of questions, so it can be difficult to reach all the questions. But the problems that are and now Mr. Bjarne Laustsen has also partially withdrawn from the labour market. After all, the Senior Think Tank has been set up to look at, and this summer it will have to come up with proposals on how to reorganise the labour market, and partial withdrawal from the labour market is one of the things that needs to be looked at. I do not think we will be looking at this in the context of the proposal for adoption which has now been put forward by the Social Democrats. I think it's coming under the Senior Think Tank. And I have no more time to answer, sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153348	Thank you. But I'm sure there's a questioner who does. The next one is sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153355	Thank you. I would like to sign that the Danish People's Party has been out publicly saying that they support that we should help the worn out. I have of course also been at home saying on the streets and straits that we seem to have a majority now to help those people who have worn out who have been a long time in the labour market and worn themselves out at the work they have. But they are sometimes a little in doubt: does it hold now? But now I ask the rapporteur: are we sure that it will last all the way through that we are negotiating for a good result, even if the government does not want to join in?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153438	I hope we can then negotiate a good result. Of course, it's hard to say yet. Now we give it the chance where the circle around the welfare settlement can sit down and see what we can find out there. That's the first step. If we do not succeed, we will be ready to negotiate further. That is what we have said in the Danish People's Party, and then I hope that we can achieve a good result through those negotiations. However, I cannot say at this stage what the negotiations will end with. - Sir, you can. Jan Johansen didn't. We do not yet know that, because there is much missing, and more concrete information about how and how such a system is to be set up. We know in the Danish People's Party that it is not all concrete in the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party. We cannot do that; we are fully aware of that. There are no parties who can, unless you sit in the government and then sit and negotiate in place how it should be. But we hope we can achieve a good result, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153540	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153543	Thank you. Now I am very pleased that the rapporteur, Mr Gundelach, is here today. Bent Bøgsted has also been out working and knows that it's working on people when you're in a job like that. That is why, of course, I would like to try to get a receipt that Bent Bøgsted also thinks that the proposal we have made that we want the social partners to come in and help find the right solutions is the right way to do this, so that we take the social partners in and find the right solution. Because I know many employers who go out there and can see that there are many employees who are worn out early.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153625	It is easy to discuss whether this is the right way. I also think I remember somewhere having heard the DA say that they are not happy with the move that the Social Democrats have made. So how good it is to get the social partners across, I must not say so. But it may well be, sir. Jan Johansen can persuade the Danish Employers' Association to like the proposal that came from the Social Democratic Party. I just don't think I caught them liking it. So it may well be that it ends up, as I think Mrs Frederiksen said, that it will then be a political solution and that perhaps it is rather what comes up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153705	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153708	Thank you. I would also like to sign that the rapporteur says that this is serious for the Danish People's Party, i.e. that the Danish People's Party is serious about wearing down. I totally agree. This is about people who can't possibly work until they're in the late '60s, first in the '70s, if they're worn out. The rapporteur says that the Danish People's Party is ready to look at a proposal, but can the rapporteur not confirm me that Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually said very clearly last week that the Danish People's Party wants to introduce a right to early retirement for the worn out, in other words, very concretely wants to introduce a right to early retirement for the worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153800	I think that is a little in the answer that I gave to Mr Van der Klaauw. Leif Lahn Jensen, about the fact that we in the Danish People's Party of course stand by what has been announced in connection with the proposal that came from Mrs Mette Frederiksen. We have also said that we agree with the principles of the proposal that has been made. I believe that both the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party are very concerned that we must find a solution for wear and tear. That is not what is going to stand in the way of anything, because I believe that we agree on it far along the way. This applies more to the question of what it should contain, what instruments it should contain. We do not have that in place in the Danish People's Party, nor does the Social Democrats. There are some different issues, but overall we do not have a complete solution. I think that, in good cooperation, we can find a solution to everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153855	The questioner with his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153858	Thank you. It is true that there are outstanding issues, but there are also concrete ones. And I would like the rapporteur to be quite specific about this with a right. In other words, we believe that worn-out people must have the right to a retirement pension, that is to say to be able to leave the labour market earlier if they are worn out after a long life on the labour market. The same thing Kristian Thulesen Dahl said last week: that the Danish People's Party wants this to be a right. Can the rapporteur not confirm this and at the same time say something about funding, because there we have actually been very specific. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has also given us the right to wish that it is the banks that should help to pay for the fact that the worn-out can enter a previous pension, that is to say, it is very concrete.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153946	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205153948	Well, I don't think we've been negative about funding, as far as I remember. If I remember everything, we have not spoken negatively about the funding. When we talk about a right, it has to do with the question of these three years before the retirement pension, i.e. whether you should have the right to retire three years earlier. The question is whether this is the absolutely right solution. We are ready to look at it, whether it ends up being a right or not being a right or how and how. We do not want to prevent anyone from staying on the labour market, but we can also see that they can be worn out. But it may be that it is a senior early retirement pension they should have instead of, or an early retirement pension they should have instead of being put into retirement; it is also something that we think we should look at. But we stand by what has been reported out by Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154049	Thank you. And then it's sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154053	Thank you. I understand from the Danish People's Party that they support the Social Democrats' proposals, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen said just now. But isn't it sir? Bent Bøgsted's view that this proposal is on a collision course with the 2006 welfare settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154115	I am not sure that it is, because the welfare settlement says that if there is a basis for it, then the retirement age must increase by the average life expectancy. That's what it says. The welfare settlement does not say that you cannot put in place a system that allows you to resign earlier, if that is what you want. In any case, that is not my view, that is to say that we cannot then do what the Social Democrats have proposed. But that's one of the things we need to look at. But that is not my view, because I have not understood how social democracy goes out and says that the retirement age must not increase. And that means that if it then rises from the current 67 years to 68 years by 2030, you can still go from 3 years before that retirement age, and when it rises to 69 years, it is also 3 years before that. This is the way I understand the Social Democrats have arranged it. So I'm not sure it's against the welfare settlement. But that is one of the things that needs to be investigated.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154224	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154227	But if this is contrary to the welfare settlement or one of the other two settlements, which is about when you retire, is it the view of the Danish People's Party that we should just gallop out there and continue to have more and more time for our retirement age? Or is there also a limit to when the Danish People's Party considers it reasonable that people who have worked hard since they were about 20 years old should be able to retire? It is not boundless how long a body can last, for example. crawling on roofs or digging sewers or cleaning things like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154310	Well, if you look at the retirement age, of course there are many scientists who say that the average life expectancy will continue to increase. However, I am not at all sure that we will see the large increase in the average life expectancy, and hence the large increase in the retirement age, which many people believe. I think it's stagnating at some point. It always has. Then there'll be a move up, then it'll stand still for a few years, and then there'll be a move up again. But we do have a problem that we need to take seriously, and it is precisely those who are worn out. We also know that the progress of medical science makes it possible to heal more and more people. They get that longer life, but maybe not a working life. That is also one of the things we will have to look at and take into account in the negotiations that we are going to enter into.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154405	Thank you. There are still six on the list of short remarks, and the first of the six is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154409	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur. The Danish People's Party says that they are also in favour of differentiated retirement age and that they support the social democracy model. These are the words that have been used. We have the benefit of finding out exactly what this is for a model that the Danish People's Party is in favour of. What surprises me is that the proposal for adoption which the rapporteur has just read out in his rapporteur's speech does not say anything about differentiated retirement age. Is it an expression of the fact that there is no desire in the governing parties to implement it and that they have simply said: no, we should not have written anything about it, because we do not want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154453	It is an expression of the fact that it is a proposal for adoption which stipulates that we enter into a debate with the parties in the welfare settlement, and in this respect Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl out saying that he invited the Prime Minister to call for negotiations. The Prime Minister has done so, and the proposal for adoption is based on the fact that negotiations have been called for. If there is then a proposal for a decision that negotiations have been called for, then we should not start putting points on with it and what we should have, because then perhaps that negotiating environment will be a little ruined. So this is a proposal for adoption that is now being called for negotiations, and then we have to find a solution in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154547	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154550	It still puzzles me that, in view of the fact that the Danish People's Party has been out to announce that we should now have a differentiated retirement age, so that we do not make sure that it is written into the adoption. But that's good for us. What will the Danish People's Party actually do if it turns out that a differentiated retirement age cannot be achieved because one or more of the conciliation parties are blocking it? Is the Danish People's Party prepared to terminate the settlement before the parliamentary elections and start negotiations with the parties in the Folketing that will discuss rights for early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154625	But there is the fact that we have been out to say that if nothing happens, we are ready to negotiate further on the Social Democrats' proposals. What is happening in those negotiations, I cannot say at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154638	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154642	Then maybe I'd like to follow it up. It is, of course, convenient to say that you will not really reply to anything before the negotiations, but let me put it another way. It may be that no agreement has been reached on this side of an election. That election may come at any time and that it is the case that a change after election presupposes that the conciliation has been terminated before an election, as the rapporteur's party chairman has said, so it was important to get the negotiations started, because it would probably require the conciliation to be terminated before an election. That's how it was, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl spoke when he went out and supported the Social Democratic proposal. So if we get into the situation that the button has been pressed and are elections, and that the prerequisite for concluding a new agreement in the next parliamentary term is that we have terminated the conciliation, is that something that the Danish People's Party is ready to do, or would you just say that it was a pity, and then that it will not be changed in the next parliamentary term?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154744	If I remember correctly, it has been said that if we cannot find a solution in the negotiations we are going to start here, then the Danish People's Party is ready to negotiate further with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154754	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154756	That is also what I have heard. And then Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also said that it would require that the settlement was terminated before an election. Perhaps I can also try to formulate my question in another way: if there is no agreement to relax this very high and rising retirement age by 2020, will the Danish People's Party vote to raise the retirement age to 69 years by 2020?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154826	Now it is the case that we have to meet in 2020 and a lot can happen by 2020. So we look at that when we go to that meeting in 2020, that is, what happens next.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154843	The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154846	Thank you. The same retirement age for everyone is just wrong because we have different jobs to deal with, and there are still too many Danes who, when they retire, are totally worn out and thus have no good retirement years that they can spend on grandchildren, leisure interests or other. The rapporteur is talking so much about the senior early retirement pension, but it is also intended to compensate for the wear and tear and thus have been deprived of these good retirement years, which I also find interesting to talk about. I would like to know how many good retirement years the rapporteur thinks we should be entitled to. And does the rapporteur think that we need to have a differentiated retirement age precisely to ensure that we can all have a number of good retirement years where we also have time to do something other than just go around eating pills and being sick?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205154945	I think this is a difficult question, because there are different views about what good retirement years are. Some would like to have some retirement years where they can still be away a little in the labour market and have time for leisure work; some would like some retirement years where they can just concentrate on the family, although they are healthy and bodily. And what is a good retirement life? It can be very different from person to person, and therefore it is difficult for us to dictate what a good retirement life is. There are different views about it. I talk to a lot of people, and people have different ideas about what a good retirement life is. But we have to look at how we can ensure that we do not have to live in a pain hell to be in the labour market, and that is also what I understand Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is talking about. Because you don't have a good retirement life if you feel that way. That is why we must be able to get out of there in a good way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155052	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155054	But the question is precisely whether we should talk about the right to a pension for the worn out or whether we should talk about the right to have a number of good retirement years where you are very well, that is, before you are so worn out that you can no longer crawl around on the living room floor with the grandchildren and, by the way, are not able to get up again. So what is it that the Danish People's Party focuses on here? is it the right to a pension to wear out, or is it the right to a number of good retirement years for everyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155127	Well, maybe that's a double answer, you might say. Because we think you should have the right to get out of there when you're worn out. There we would like to see the senior early retirement scheme, which Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen's party helped to put under the large umbrella, broken down, that it had its own platform, where it was taken into account when you were worn out in your job, by means of a medical certificate that you could get from there in good order. We have also said that we are ready to see whether, for those who have been on the labour market for a long time, there should be an opportunity to retire a few years earlier, as the Social Democratic Party has proposed. We have also said that we are ready to look. But where the limit is to be whether it should be 40, 42, 45, 43 or 46 years on the labour market we have not locked ourselves on because it can be a little difficult to estimate exactly where the limit is. When people enter the labour market, it can also be difficult to judge.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155220	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155225	Thank you. Now I could hear that the rapporteur said earlier that we did not have to worry so much about this increasing retirement age, because life expectancy would probably not increase as much as was expected. Now I assume that it is also the wish of the Danish People's Party that life expectancy should increase and that we should so much like to deal with it with the increasing retirement age in a different way than by reducing life expectancy. I would like to follow up on what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen is asking, because the proposal for adoption here says that the government must call for negotiations in order to find solutions that take account of the opportunities for the worn out to retire from the labour market before the retirement age. It's just a matter of wear and tear. It is not about differentiated retirement age, that is to say, having some good years at the end of life after working life. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur agree that the negotiations to be convened should have a broader aim than merely to deal with the opportunities of worn-out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155332	Just to take the first one, this average life expectancy: There is no one who can stand here and say what the average life expectancy looks like when we get to 2030 or 2035. I have no pre-conditions for judging what our average life expectancy is at that time. That is what I am saying: it is not certain that the projection will run smoothly. Maybe there'll be a slow-down, so it'll stand still. When we talk about wear and tear, as stated in the proposal for adoption, we are, of course, looking at wear and tear. It may be, in relation to whether they should have a senior pre-retirement pension. But there are many ways to be worn out. It may also be that you are worn out in a way that does not have to have a senior early retirement pension, but maybe you can just retire three years before the normal retirement age, as the Social Democratic Party has proposed. So it's not like that either. You look at it all because there are many ways to be worn out. Nor do I want to deprive people of the opportunity to continue to be linked to the labour market. They may want to have a senior flexible job where they can keep some time, or combine pension life with working life. I think that should also be possible. There are many ways to do that. And there are already some things in advance through collective agreements where one can combine, and it might well be that one could also expand it with some other options. That's what the Senior Think Tank is gonna come up with, which we're gonna have to look at then.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155457	Thank you. The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155458	Thank you. When I ask, it is because it is very specifically in the proposal for adoption presented by the governing parties and the Danish People's Party that this is about worn-out opportunities to withdraw, and it is not all the other things that Mr. Bent Bøgsted is talking about. That's different. So it is just to clarify that the Danish People's Party is also of the opinion that the negotiations to be convened should also be about all the other aspects, as Mr. Bent Bøgsted mentions that it is not just a matter of wear and tear. Because the fact that you retire when you are worn out in the labour market is not about all the other things, sir. Bent Bøgsted mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155538	The questioner is, of course, a little sorry, but when you come to negotiations and you have an agreement that you have to negotiate a subject in place, it is amazing how many issues are being raised in such negotiations. It is not just the case that because there is one point on a proposal for adoption, that is only what we are debating. I can guarantee you, sir. Peder Hvelplund for the fact that many things are being brought up, and I believe that the Minister for Employment can confirm that I am bringing up many things, and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also, although we have been called upon to negotiate one thing. So there are a lot of things that are being brought up when we sit in the negotiations, and that is why they are coming along too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155620	The last thing I have on the list of speakers for short remarks at the moment is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155627	Thank you. I'd like to acknowledge, sir. Bent Bøgsted's answer earlier to Mr. Troels Ravn about the very fact that the Danish People's Party had not spoken negatively about the Social Democratic proposals for funding. As I said, I would like to acknowledge this and also the answer, because I have not heard it that way either. However, there are others who have been involved with other proposals in the area of pensions and other proposals for funding, which is why it could really be interesting to hear about it. We are now putting forward the Social Democrats' proposal to fund 3 billion. kr. e.g. from the financial sector to the side. We know that no negative opinion has been expressed. But then, for example, the Radical Left has been involved in a proposal to fund some other pension proposals by phasing in the agreement on a later retirement age, so that all Danes will have to retire later in order to finance some pension elements. I would just like to hear what the Danish People's Party thinks of the Radical Left's proposal for funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155742	In fact, I think I will confirm what I have said to the newspaper and which is in the newspaper, namely that it is not with the votes of the Danish People's Party that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155752	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155754	What I really want to do here is not to ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted, but just confirm that so has the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155804	I guess that's just a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155807	In fact, one more has been added to short remarks. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. We'll take that too).
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155814	The rapporteur also has to do so. The reason why I am entering the series of questions is actually the lack of answers which I think the rapporteur did not then give to Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted earlier. So I'm gonna try a little different wording as well. If the welfare settlement is not terminated before a parliamentary election, it is surely a fact that the Danish People's Party, as part of the conciliation circle in 2020, will vote in favour of raising the retirement age to 69 years. I guess that's a fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155903	No, you cannot put it that way, because it depends on what it all looks like in 2020. We do not feel that we are going out and terminating conciliation, but I think that the decision on what should happen by 2020 should be postponed until 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155921	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205155922	Well, is there anything that indicates that by 2020 we are facing totally changed assumptions in relation to the settlement we have reached? I have not yet heard that this has been achieved, and that is why I ask: is it not a fact that when you come to 2020, you will vote in the conciliation circle for raising the retirement age to 69 years if you have not terminated the conciliation? What would be the clever thing, as it were, in the eyes of the goose-eyes would be to cancel the settlement both for the Danish People's Party and for the Social Democratic Party, was that you were free to negotiate a new arrangement, so you could start afresh.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160007	Well, that's what's gonna happen in the negotiations. We will find out what we can negotiate and what will happen. Can we find a solution, or can we not find a solution? And can we then find a solution with the Social Democracy, and what do we do then? This is something we will decide on when we come to negotiations, depending on what we find out from the various solutions that can be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160028	Now I see no more short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. On the other hand, I see that the next rapporteur in the series of speeches is ready, and that is the rapporteur on the left, Mr President. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160041	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the other rapporteurs for a good discussion. There is no doubt that this issue is of great concern to both the people and the members of parliament and for good reason. This issue concerns all of us, and I am therefore pleased that we will have a discussion on the issue. Let me start by stating one thing: those who cannot work must not work anymore, it is not, and it has always been, and remains, the policy of the Left. Of course, worn Danes should not work. There can be no two views on this. That is why we also want a system in which we, who can work, work and contribute, while those who cannot, benefit from the community and can retire earlier. I think we all agree on that. After all, when we have reformed the area of pensions and retirement over the last 14 years, we have done so because we could see challenges on the horizon, challenges that would cause great problems for our welfare societies if we did not deal with them. That is why I am also pleased that a broad majority adopted the welfare agreement in 2006 and the withdrawal reform in 2011. It ensures the Danish economy and the welfare society that we all love. But there are challenges in the current system, and we fully agree with that. However, we do not necessarily agree with all the proposals on how to deal with them. When we look at solutions, we look at the current early retirement system. The reform of early retirement and flexible jobs, which Mrs Mette Frederiksen back in 2012, was the main architect behind, ensure that if you are worn out, whether you are 45 or 65 years old, you can withdraw from the labour market earlier. It also ensures that, if you are close to retirement age and can no longer do so, there is the possibility of retiring on a senior early retirement pension. We therefore think that the current arrangements are good, but that is not the same as saying that they are perfect, on the contrary. After all, back in 2018, we have adjusted the early retirement and flexible job reform. But challenges remain. Nine out of ten applying for a senior pre-retirement pension gets it. Well, that's pretty good, isn't it? On the other hand, the scheme has not been sought by as many people as originally expected. Well, that's not so happy. This shows, of course, that the system is not being used as expected, and we must take stock of that, because it is the reality that we have to deal with. That is why we are also willing to see whether we can do even better. How can we make a differentiated pension system even better? We would like to discuss this with the parties here today. This is the centre of the Left. The Prime Minister has also called for discussions so that we can also clarify what is in substance in the Social Democrat proposal. What is the meaning of this proposal? How is that fairer? We look forward to this, and we look forward to the President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, coming to the debate and having answers to some of the questions that have also been raised in today's debate: how are we to define the group that can get a former retirement pension of DKr 6,300? a month? What exactly is this group? So what kind of data base is this going to take to define this group? How will this affect the supply of labour and the Danish economy? Are they 3 billion? kr., proposed, a limit? What if there are more people who would like to take advantage of the scheme? How does the Social Democratic Party feel? The questions are many and complex. I look forward to having a really good talk about that. Let me conclude by saying that those who cannot work do not have to work and are no longer working. It has always been the policy of the Left, and we look forward to it continuing to be so. So we are open to the discussion. We have been focusing for a long time on solving specific problems, and we are also looking forward to continuing to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160602	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. The first rapporteur to make a brief comment is Mr Beazley. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160611	After all, one gets in a good mood when one hears in the Social Democratic Party that the government is constantly looking forward to sitting down and understanding what the Social Democrats have brought in. That's what gets you in a good mood. But it is strange that we are in a situation where it is the opposition party that has to make a proposal, in other words that there is not a single proposal on the part of the government, in other words that the government does not mean anything at all. Okay, two years ago, they wanted to raise their retirement age. Or don't they mean anything? What you spend most of your time on is sitting down and wanting to understand the Social Democrats' proposals, but you don't mean anything at all. I have to ask whether it is because the will to mean something is not present. Is it because the will to do something at all in this area is not there? I repeat: it is only two years ago that you wanted to increase the retirement age and you have two friends sitting in the government who do not want anything in this area, so it is not because the will is simply not there and that you just want to sit and botanise in proposals that others actually dare to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160711	We have the approach to it that if you are worn out and cannot work, then you should not work. Then we think that there should be an opportunity to leave the labour market. It may be on an early retirement pension, it may be when you are 45 years old or 55 years old. It can be a senior early retirement pension if you are closer to the retirement age. We say so quite openly that there are things in these schemes that do not work well enough. We would like to discuss this. And we would also like to hear a little more about the Social Democratic proposals, because what is the 40 or 42 years or 45 years or 47 years to work? What kind of groups are these? And what kind of industry do you have to be employed in to be included in the Social Democratic proposal? Such things we think are important because it is deeply complicated and there is no easy answer when we enter the engine room. And I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160821	So it is because the government cannot find out because there is no easy answer that is why you do not make any proposals; is that why you do not mean anything? Now the rapporteur again mentions that we are looking forward to getting to grips with the S proposal, and about our proposal the rapporteur says: it may be. It's so unconcrete. What is the Left's proposal in relation to solving this problem? Is it only, as the Minister said, to take a look at the senior early retirement pension? Is that the only proposal that the Left has?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160854	We are discussing this and I know that the rapporteur is fully aware of a large number of measures currently being taken by the Minister for Employment. They need to improve, for example. the working environment; they must improve our early and flexible job reform. Now we're also taking the senior early retirement. These are measures that must be taken to ensure that, if you cannot work and are worn out, you must not work any longer, and then you must have the opportunity to leave the labour market. We would like to discuss this and we would like to hear more about the proposals of the Social Democratic Party. We're very curious about it, because we've been there. After all, we tried to uncover this back in 2011 and 2015, but it's just not as easy as the Social Democracy makes it appear like, that is, it's just a right, and then done with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205160953	I understand that the rapporteur likes the red-colored button, but it actually means that we must stop talking. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161002	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now it is not because I am saying that this differentiated retirement age is quite easy, but it is no more complicated than finding out in one of our neighbouring countries, for example. Germany. But what I want to ask is prompted by Mr. Bent Bøgsted's remark that nobody knows what's going to happen to this retirement age by 2020. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's views on what has actually been agreed. Will the rapporteur confirm that when the increase in retirement age was adopted to 68 years in 2015, the average life expectancy had already increased so much that the retirement age should actually have been raised to 69 1⁄2 years, but that it was only 68 years, because there is, of course, a rule that the retirement age should only be increased by one year at a time, because it is in the conciliation? However, it is also certain in advance that in 2020 the Folketing will raise the retirement age to 69 years with effect from 2035 because the life expectancy has already increased so much that it is necessary to respect the conciliation. So does the rapporteur agree that that is what the conciliation is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161109	The view I have of the agreement we have on lifetime indexing is that we should vote in favour of the folk retirement age, if life expectancy continues to increase, to follow up. It ensures the funding of our entire welfare society as we look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161137	Thank you. But at least we agree on what that means. We do not agree that this is a good thing, but we agree on what it means, and this is also clear from the conciliation text and from Bill No. L 40, adopted in 2015. So thanks for the preparation. But I guess that's why, too, sir. rapporteur. If you do not like raising the retirement age and if you do not want to be accused of a conciliation breach by 2020, then this conciliation must be terminated before the parliamentary elections, so that you free yourself from it and then you are able to negotiate other solutions, and therefore, excuse me, this is nonsense when Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that nobody knows what is going to happen in 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161222	In relation to the principles that, as we live longer, we have to raise the retirement age, we have an agreement on this. That is why we can discuss the proposals of the seven principles that have come from the Social Democratic Party. Those are good principles, but they're a little airy. But we would like to discuss them with the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161251	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161254	Thank you. The left is curious and very little concrete, I think I can conclude from the rapporteur's speech. I believe that this is so important for a great many people that it is necessary for the positions of the parties to become very clear. The other day I read in the Jutland West Coast one by myself locally elected Left Member of the Danish Parliament saying that this proposal to grant entitlement to a previous pension, if you are worn out, is both dangerous and naive and an economic bomb under our welfare. Does the rapporteur agree with this parliamentarian elected in Billund?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161351	We have the approach to it in the Left that if you are worn out and cannot work, then you must have the opportunity to step out of the labour market in the schemes I have mentioned sometimes. We have been there, as I have mentioned here from the platform; we have examined it with a differentiated retirement age. Social democracy makes it sound like it's easy to handle, and it's just a matter of will. I just have to say that maybe it isn't quite. But that is why we want to discuss things with the Social Democratic Party. That is why I have also replied that I believe that we should come in and discuss how we can ensure that the worn-out gets better.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161434	The rapporteur's colleague, as I said in a speech, called the proposal here a bomb under Danish well-being. Is it not just proper welfare to take care of those people who are insecure about their old age because they are worn out long before they can retire? And can the Left not be so specific about the question: will the Left help to guarantee a right to a former retirement pension for the people who are worn out in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161510	We are concerned that, if you are worn out and unable to work, you must be able to withdraw from the labour market. On the other hand, I must also ask the Social Democrats whether it is reasonable that, if you have been a bricklayer for 17 years and then a member of parliament, you should also then have a right to step out and go on a retirement pension. I have to understand that is part of the Social Democrat proposal, and I think that we should at least talk to each other a little more. How is it ensured that, if you are worn out and unable to work, you will have an opportunity to step out, not just when you are 65 years old, but perhaps when you are 45 years old? I do not think this is so clear from the Social Democrats' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161558	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161601	The rapporteur keeps talking about this with wear and tear, but that's not just what this discussion is about. It is also about the fact that the pension system created by the rapporteur's party, together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, is notoriously unfair, because it has the built-in effect that some of the groups who enter the labour market early and typically have a shorter life span have fewer good years after working life than for example. the lawyer and the chief medical officer and others who later enter the labour market. Then we can talk about those at the top of society who can decide for themselves when they will retire, and then those who made the early retirement reform in here, that is, those politicians who can still go off when they are 60 years old. But let us leave the two groups behind and then concentrate on the fact that the 3F, the NNF and the FOA member, who has started early and has a shorter life span than those who have the long courses, therefore have fewer years after working life, because they are based on an average life expectancy for the whole population. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that the current pension system, in other words what the rapporteur's party has done together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, is notoriously unfair to those with short education or no education?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161721	I think we have a flexible pension system today. That means that we have an early retirement pension. Some 200,000 people are actually on early retirement today, so at an earlier stage than before they reached retirement age, they have resigned from the labour market. I think that's a helping hand. It is then a society that takes care of those people who cannot be part of the working community, even if they would like to be. I think that is a flexible pension system. Then today we have a fixed retirement age. It's uniform, I admit. It is to be expected that everyone can dispose of it, and that is what we need to have a debate on, i.e. whether it should continue to be, or whether there should be other models on the field. We have said that we will discuss it, but I do not think it is fair to say that the current pension system is as bad as the questioner makes it appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161825	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161826	But the reality is that if we look at people with a short education or no education and at people with long higher education and then look on average at the two groups, then the latter, the chief doctor and the lawyer, have between 4 and 7 more good years of pension than those with short education. In other words, those who start early on the labour market and pay taxes for a very many years have fewer years behind, on average, than the others. This is a system which, in structural terms, takes care of people like me at the expense of those who have started early and worked hard. That's not fair. What is the Left's position on this other than just being curious about what the Social Democracy comes up with? Do we really think it is right to have an average age which discriminates against them with short courses that have been on the labour market for a long time?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205161930	We're preoccupied with the fact that everyone gets as many good senior years as possible. That is also why I have mentioned here today that we need to work to get an even better working environment so that we do not get worn down by going to work, and we also need to look at the arrangements that make it possible to exit the labour market if we are worn out and unable to work, even before we reach the retirement age. Because it has to be the case that if you are worn out and cannot work already at 45 years old, there has to be a stepping stone to get out of the labour market. We want to hold on to that, and maybe I don't know... will Enhedslisten do it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162009	Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162012	Thank you. Now I heard the rapporteur make a first announcement when the Social Democratic Party had announced that worn-out people could leave the labour market before retirement age, and then the rapporteur was very firm that there was no mention of that and that we had the arrangements to do. There was a small amount of time, and then the rapporteur went out again and told us that it might have to be looked at. I would like to know whether it was because the rapporteur suddenly found out that there were worn-out people out there, or whether it was the mood of the people that made it necessary to report out in a different way from what had been done first.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162057	Now we can stand here and try to make fun of each other. In fact, I think the subject is far too important for that. This is about people; it is about all of us; it is about how we ensure that we can afford our welfare society and how we ensure that, if you are worn out and unable to work, you can step out on an early retirement pension or a senior early retirement pension, or whether you can have a flexible job and thus maintain a link with the labour market. I cannot understand why the Social Democratic Party cannot only welcome the fact that we are about to talk in a room, and then we can find out whether the Social Democratic model can work or whether it just looked so good on paper with the seven principles. We are concerned that we are improving the arrangements we have, and we would like to talk about this with the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162152	I am very pleased that the rapporteur announces that we would like to look at the Social Democrats' proposals. The rapporteur keeps saying that, and we are happy about it. But I'd still like to know what a worn-out worker is. Is it an assessment by judges to assess whether a person is worn out or would the rapporteur help to say that there is also a right when you have spent many years on the labour market and you know that you are worn out? I would like to know a little bit about what the rapporteur is thinking about this area, i.e. whether they should be judged by judges in order for them to be allowed to leave the labour market a little earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162238	I think that we should perhaps leave the concrete negotiations to Thursday, where we will meet and where Mrs Mette Frederiksen will appear. That's where it's gonna be exciting to find out. But I think we may be able to arrive at hopefully that if you are worn out and cannot work, then you have to have the opportunity to step out. I clearly admit that the senior early retirement scheme is not working well enough today. But vice versa, well, the lamp lights red, so now I stop with my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162316	Then we move on to another questioner. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162321	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen to make it quite clear from the platform that there is a conciliation and that, if that conciliation is not terminated, in 2020 we will be voting for an increase in the retirement age to 69 years. Finn Sørensen earlier. That's why I'd like to hear Mr. Hans Andersen's comments on Mr. Bent Bøgsted says that it is not certain that this will be the case by 2020 and that so many things can happen. So that's what I'm asking: which ones? So, sir... Hans Andersen to imagine what sort of things can happen that make you change the conciliation or the content of the conciliation so that by 2020 you do not find yourself in the situation of raising the retirement age? Did Mr. Hans Andersen fantasy to imagine what it could be?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162423	Now I think it's best that I tell you what the Left wants and that Mr. Bent Bøgsted tells us what the Danish People's Party wants. We stand by the agreement that has been made on the lifetime indexing. We stand by that and it commits. And then I think that Mr. Henning Hyllested might try to get into a new debate with Mr. Bent Bøgsted and ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted, what the Danish People's Party thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162502	Sir. Bent Bøgsted isn't on the list of speakers, but it's Mr. Bøgsted. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162506	I have no doubt about that, and I think that is actually clear from that, Mr President. Hans Andersen has just explained on behalf of the Left that what has come from the Social Democratic Party is basically junk. It is certainly very airy, as was said. So it's junk. That is why it is really important that the Left and Mr. Hans Andersen also makes it clear and says: Well we have a settlement, friends, and we must expect everyone to vote for this, including the Danish People's Party and also the Social Democratic Party. Conversely, when the Left believes that what has emerged is basically junk, perhaps we should have a little improvement in the senior pension scheme, okay, but that is because if the conciliation has not been terminated, then it is actually necessary to agree in the conciliation circle, or at least stick to the conciliation text.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162612	Well, now it's sir. Henning Hyllested, who refers to the Social Democracy proposal as a junk. I have listened to what the Social Democrats say, and I have also read the proposal, and there are seven principles, and they can be very good. We need to talk about them with the Social Democrats. We're having a hard time really unfolding it into something concrete. So, is it 5,000, 8,000, 12,000 that should be covered by this right? And if the money doesn't stretch, then what? Is it the first-come, first-served principle that needs to be applied, or what is going to happen? But I'm looking forward to it. We'll be smarter on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162709	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162711	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur asks: How can we make a good pension system even better? And that could be a fine enough discussion, but I really think that this debate is also about something else, namely how we can accommodate the many people who, in other words, cannot stand to work to a higher and higher retirement age. In fact, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether he agrees that there is a big difference between whether you start work at 18 at a construction site or at 28 in an office.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162750	Yes, there is certainly a big difference. In other words, at the construction site one can certainly be worn down both physically and mentally, and there is physically what is most prominent. But in the office, that is, in the job center where the social worker sits, you can also have physical problems.It's not always healthy to sit in office for many hours. I think it is very individual, that is, from person to person, when you are worn out in such a way that you cannot work, and that is what we must try to deal with in a pension system.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162828	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162830	I think that the rapporteur talks about the specific problem that everyone else agrees on, namely that there are some people who simply cannot stand to work until they are 70 or perhaps 75 years old. Some simply will not be physically able to do so. I heard the rapporteur say before he said that, if that is the case, you can get a senior pension. But it's like telling these people who are helping to keep the wheels going and to ensure growth and prosperity that they have to work until they fall. Does the Left really not have a better idea of the obvious problem that there are some people who simply cannot last as many years of physical work on the labour market as are being planned with an increase in retirement age? Doesn't the Left have a better answer for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162920	It is both about access to early retirement, about access to a senior early retirement pension, but it is also about our working environment. It is a declaration of failure that we now hear 30-year-old bricklayers say that it is not decisive whether it is until they are 70 or 73 years old, because they say: I cannot work more than 20 years as a bricklayer; then I am worn out. We have to do something about that, and I think the bricklayer is better off than having a retirement age of 70 years or 73 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162952	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205162956	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for clarifying what the Left means by the welfare agreement, the principles underlying it and, of course, the fact that, in order to change it, there must be consensus within the conciliation circle. And you can say that is quite crucial, because it also means something, in relation to the opportunities for the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party to change this agreement, in that it then requires that there is consensus within the conciliation circle. I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on the whole issue of differentiated retirement age. For one thing, wear and tear, but now the rapporteur has said that we would like to hear what the Social Democrats actually think, so what is the fundamental position of the Left? Is the Left of the opinion that it is necessary to change the pension scheme we have today, that is to say that it is necessary to have a differentiated pension scheme, as the Social Democrats see it, or does the Left believe that it is only a matter of wear and tear and the possibility of leaving the labour market if you are worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163106	But we have the opportunity to resign from the labour market on an early retirement pension or a senior early retirement pension, by the way, on a benefit which is far, far higher than the old-age pension which the Social Democratic Party is now proposing should be able to retire three years earlier. Then I have said that we have examined that option back in 2011 and 2015 for how you can also work with a pension system, where it is the number of years that determine when you can go to a retirement pension. And the answer at the time was that it cannot be used as a model, but it may be that on Thursday, when Mrs Mette Frederiksen will hopefully come, the Social Democracy can make us wiser. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163203	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163205	But early retirement and early retirement are all about wear and tear, and what I would like to hear a little about was the principle of the Left's position on it. In other words, there is no reason to solve a problem which the Left does not think is there, and therefore it might be interesting to hear whether the Left believes that there is otherwise there is no point in discussing the proposals that the Social Democratic Party is making now. In other words, the Left is of the opinion that there is
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163235	We are certainly concerned that you should have some good senior years, the best possible senior years. That's why we have to do something about the work environment. I think that's kind of important. But, on the other hand, should the cook, who has subsequently become Head of Department, also have the right to retire early? That would be the model of the Social Democrat proposal here. I would like to discuss this with the Social Democratic Party: is this a fair way of using our common resources, or can we find other models?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163315	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163318	It is not, of course, a great many answers that come from the Left, one has to say when it comes to what one really wants, and it may seem a little pauvert to talk about the working environment when one has cut down on the Labour Inspectorate during its reign and talks about improvements in withdrawal opportunities when the current Prime Minister has de facto abolished the post-retirement pay and, moreover, during this parliamentary term several times proposed that, on the contrary, the retirement age should be increased. Well, what I really want to ask is the second part of the equation, which is quite interesting, namely that this is also to be financed. Social democracy has made a clear proposal for funding. There are other parties that have been either neutral or positive in relation to it. It might actually be interesting to hear how the Left is dealing with the Social Democratic funding proposal of 3 billion. kr., part of which comes from the increased social contribution from the financial sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163421	Basically, we are not in favour of having to write higher taxes at work. We do not think that we should make the conditions for operating in Denmark worse. This means that jobs are moving out and that they are not being placed in Denmark. We think that would be a bad way to go. So that's kind of our approach to it. When the Social Democratic Party mentions tax on excessive speculation, it is a little strange, because at the moment we are trying to find solutions to regulate the banking sector in such a way that banks comply with the standards we want. After all, the source of funding is drying up, and what is the solution of social democracy? So that's just extra taxes? Is it the personal tax that needs to be raised to finance the social democracy's solution? It's a little unclear for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163527	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163528	In fact, it is new to me that the government has a plan to ensure that the financial sector cannot make any money at all in the future. It comes as a surprise, but now, we have to look forward to it. Now there is, in fact, another funding proposal which has recently been brought up by the Radical Left: a funding proposal; the Social Democrats in no way share the view that the retirement age should be further increased in general for all those on the labour market. It is actually a little unclear what it is, the government's policy and also what the policy of the Left is exactly. Well, then, sir. Hans Andersen is not just making us a little more aware of how to deal with the proposal from the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163610-2	It should not be unclear to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, for if Mr. Benny Engelbrecht followed a little with that I expect the rapporteur to do so, so it is very clear. I myself gave the answer on Thursday: we do not want to increase the retirement age further than we have already agreed. That was the answer, and I am happy to give it again today. So thus the doubt is cleared off the table and so: Good day!
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163639	Thank you for that, and you too, sir. Hans Andersen, because there are no more brief remarks. The trip has now come to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205163654	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for calling this question debate, but I would also like to thank the Social Democratic Party for having made it more topical. This is a good debate, which I think everyone has contributed well to. It is also an important issue, which many of us have been debating over the last week. I've had the pleasure of the other day in P1 debating with Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Our position on this is probably not so surprising for the House here. We think that, as we grow older and older, we should work longer. That is why we are in favour of the welfare pact. We would actually have liked to phase it in more quickly, because we could see that developments were moving faster, but we naturally respect what lies there. I think there's two leads in this. I think there is a challenge with the people whom I fully recognise today in a situation where they are worn out. We need to take care of that. We in the Liberal Alliance think that the smartest way to deal with this is to improve the arrangements that are specific to them. I acknowledge that the senior early retirement pension is probably not working optimally. We can see how few actually get it. So it may be there that needs to be adjusted. But we think the right thing to do is to take action against those who are worn out and not just because you have been x years on the labour market. Those who need help are those who can no longer work. That's one part of it. Then there is the second part, namely that this is not a long-term solution, for the people whom we then help, for example. With a senior pre-retirement pension, it still hurts if they're worn out. They still creep out of bed, and they still can't lift up their grandchildren. They still have a reduced quality of life. So what I think is wrong in this debate is that we are talking about pensions as a solution to this problem, because it is not a solution for the people who have become worn out. That is why there is another track called prevention. How do we ensure that these people who enter those professions are not worn out? This is a little like what we have talked a lot about in the social field about the negative social heritage. We have some who are in a situation where they need help... maybe placed outside the home and all sorts of other things... and at the same time we need to prevent so that in the long term fewer children get into that situation. And there will be a period of driving in both tracks. Clearly, it will be more expensive for society because we must both take care of some people and at the same time take action and prevent them, but we believe in the Liberal Alliance that we must do this two-track work. We are not in favour of a retirement age based on how many years you have been in the labour market, because we are basically in favour of the principle that if you can work, you have to work and if you cannot work, you need help. But we also recognise that there is some work where, as we grow older and older, we have to ask whether it is realistic at all, regardless of how good the working environment is, and whether or not we spend 1 billion. kr. to the Danish Labour Inspectorate, to be a bricklayer, a land and concrete worker, a mover, a scaffolding worker throughout our lives, when we get older and older. I don't know, but I think that's relevant to discussing. Now I understand that the Social Democratic Party has today shared something on social media and has quoted me as saying that I think you should have a change of direction before you get worn out and I think that if you can't have the job your whole life. If you want to be run down by it, it is a better alternative, I think that we are beginning to talk to young people early and already on the training bench about the fact that it is not necessarily a work that you can have your whole life and that it becomes a culture in the workplace that you talk about what is of development potential in another sector. I think it is very good that the Prime Minister has called for discussions. I think it is exciting what comes out of those discussions, because we are dealing with that, you can see from the proposals for decisions here today that there are different positions. It's not just two positions: a blue block and a red block. There are different positions so it will be exciting how the discussions will go and what we can get out of them. However, I think it is relevant and our approach to those discussions is: fine, that you look at some, the worn-out ones that need to be helped, but if we take people out of the workforce, we in the Liberal Alliance will be very interested in how we can then ensure that we also expand the workforce.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164228	We shall now proceed to the brief remarks or questions. First, it's sir. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164233	Thank you very much. That was a very clear message. The question then is: will the Liberal Alliance use its power as part of the settlement to block an agreement on a differentiated retirement age? That was one question, and it is a very short one that can be answered yes or no. Then there's the other part. Everyone agrees that we must set up the labour market so that people can hold to work for as long as they want to work. Why, then, has the Liberal Alliance, together with the other conciliation parties in the welfare agreement, done exactly the opposite by failing to honour the commitments to strengthen prevention, to strengthen the good working environment, but to drastically reduce the Factory Inspectorate? You have the Prevention Fund, yes, but you cannot use it, says the Minister for Finance. And that is how we can give countless examples of saving everything that we promised we would do and which was the prerequisite for increasing the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164339	To the first question, whether we want to block, I would say that right now we are where we are open and prepared to discuss this openly. We haven't decided now what we want and what we don't want. We are therefore interested in trying to find solutions, including broad solutions. So no, right now the message isn't that we're just gonna block. We want to be open to the discussions that are going on. In relation to the prevention part, I just think that we do not share the view that the Factory Inspectorate and the resources in the Factory Inspectorate are the only and absolutely crucial thing about how the working environment is out there. We have therefore seen a labour inspectorate which has been running around in office jobs. We've had visitors of them down in the Liberal Alliance, where they wanted to create a manual for us on how to clean up our warehouse. There is therefore something that needs to be adjusted in the Danish Labour Inspectorate and this is well under way so that it is targeted where there are challenges. As long as you have time to visit the Liberal Alliance and provide us with guidance on how to clean up our warehouse, something tells me that it is not the economy of the Labour Inspectorate that is pushing them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164453	Thank you. In other words, one can well imagine that the Liberal Alliance is contributing to an agreement similar to that proposed by the Social Democrats. I would just like to say that no one claims that the Factory Inspectorate is the only means of getting a good working environment. But how to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate's ability to contribute to it if you prune it, so that one in four employees or one in four positions, you should say that has disappeared in the Labour Inspectorate since 2007? The Liberal Alliance is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164530	I am not saying that the Liberal Alliance, as it is right now, can see itself in an agreement on a differentiated retirement age based on how many years you have worked. In other words, the Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the post-retirement pay altogether and has wanted it all the way through because we do not want a society in which healthy and bodied people can simply withdraw on behalf of other people. So no, we find that hard to see, but let's see if we can meet and get the ends to meet in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164600	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164603	According to an inventory by the Ministry of Health and the Elders, they live with the lowest incomes, and it is typically also those who have been longest out on the labour market, nine and a half years shorter than those with the highest incomes • those who may not have been out there so long on the labour market. It sounds like the Liberal Alliance just doesn't recognise that being out on the labour market for a lot of years, from 17 to 18 years, is working hard on your body. They just say: Well, of course you just have to work, and you can, and it doesn't matter that you work for many years. There's a reason some people don't get as old as others, and that's because it's actually working. Does the Liberal Alliance not recognize that part at all, and does it matter, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164645	No, we fully acknowledge that. I do not think you need to poke your nose into any statistics from the Ministry of Health and the Elders to figure out that the people who start working as 16-17-year-olds and every day use their bodies physically are, of course, more worn-out than I am, for example, in the function I have. We fully acknowledge that. Of course, being a soil and concrete worker, for example, is a harder physical work than being a politician in parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164712	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164713	But will the Liberal Alliance help to give them the right that when they have worked for so many years, they can actually retire 2 or 3 years before, because they have worked for awful many years, many more years than academics are going to work? I was just outside talking to a 28-year-old bricklayer, Danny. He's very, very worried, because he doesn't really think he can stay in this bricklayer trade for many years. He also doesn't think there's a lot of young people who want to choose it because they get worn out. What's the Liberal Alliance gonna say to a guy like that? Hurry up and pick another job, and we'll have to build our own houses when we get home? At least I'm not gonna build my own house, it's not gonna work. What are we gonna tell him?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164752-2	At least I think that if we have a 28-year-old bricklayer who is worried already now, the solution is certainly not to say to him: You can go 2 years earlier, so you should not leave when you are 70, but you can go when you are 68. Probably won't help him either. That is what the Social Democratic Party is proposing to him. I do not think that is the answer. I think the answer is to say: how do we ensure that we do not get worn down at all? And if you are de facto working for many years, then it is right for him to make a change of track along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164821	Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164823	Thank you. Does the rapporteur really believe that the solution for these many, many thousands of people who will be worn out in the labour market long before they reach retirement age in the late 1960s, early 1970s, will be a change of direction? Is it a dignified, reasonable, proper response to one of the greatest challenges of our welfare society, in other words, in terms of wear and tear? I cannot quite understand why, when the rapporteur talks about these two tracks, he says that one of the tracks is to improve the existing arrangements, and at the same time, I say, and here I think, that the chain is jumping off the rails, that the post-earning pay must be abolished altogether. Because the early retirement is still one of the existing schemes which, after all, come to the fore with the people who are being worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205164931	No, early retirement is a right to all; whether worn out or not, one could choose it. And what we are against here is the principle that healthy and bodily people of 60 years of age, for example, should retire; we do not think they should. Whether a switch is a dignified answer? So, is it a dignified answer to say to the 28-year-old bricklayer who can already feel a defect that he can retire two years before? Well, I actually think we have to try to be a little bit serious in this debate. I actually think it's okay to talk about switching in connection with some jobs, for example the job as a mover. Few movers expect them to be moving men from the age of 15 until they reach retirement age; no one has imagined that they should. And what's wrong with that anyway? I don't think there's anything wrong with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165020	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165022	To talk about a change of track for such a large group of people, that is to say, where to tell people that a change of track is made to them at some point, I do not think it is a serious starting point. With regard to the early retirement, I would say that the early retirement was just used by them. It shows all the figures that needed it. It was a myth that it was dentists, lawyers and well-educated people who just dropped it on early retirement. However, I would just like to stick to what the rapporteur said on the subject of labour supply, namely that the rapporteur is concerned about losing labour supply. Does the rapporteur think that these people who are worn out are really part of the labour supply? They are so worn out that they are not part of the labour market but go out and out of different kinds of transfer income. So again I would like to ask: is this a worthy, proper, serious way of dealing with this challenge that the rapporteur is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165130	I think so myself, and we in the Liberal Alliance think so, so it makes sense to try to illuminate every angle of this. I'm not saying we're gonna make a switch. I say that I think it would be healthy to have a culture in the educational institutions and in the workplace that, after a few years, it is quite natural to start thinking about what is of superstructures, so that, for example, we can start thinking about what is of superstructures. as a carpenter seeking training for the construction designer, so that you stay within the profession, but can go other ways and thus get a change of track. In fact, I think that is a very worthy way of talking about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165211	Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165213	Thank you. The rapporteur says that healthy and bodied people must not leave the labour market. I just heard that. At the same time, we must say that they must not be worn out before they leave the labour market. What exactly is the rapporteur's position? May they be there, and shouldn't they be worn out? I believe that a dignified senior life is that you are not worn out and can move and play football with the grandchildren when you get home. Then I would also like to ask the rapporteur something. You've helped save on the Factory Inspectorate, and then you'll help to say that people don't have to wear out at work. There is one thing that is not related to the policy that you yourselves stand for, that is, what the rapporteur is saying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165308	No, there isn't. We fully agree that a dignified senior life is a senior life where you still have a quality of life when you leave. That is why I do not think that the Socialists' proposal is a solution to the problem that we have, because it will only mean leaving the labour market, but is still worn out. That is why I said at the outset that we must also get a process of prevention going, in other words how we can ensure that we are not worn out, so that we retire when we reach retirement age and still have good years left. In relation to the Factory Inspectorate, I would like to say again that as long as the Factory Inspectorate is messing around in my office and telling me that there is a wire that I should be careful not to fall over, I find it very difficult to take it seriously that the Factory Inspectorate is so pressured. Because if they are so pressured, they should not visit office jobs like mine and go where some people actually need them to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165359	I would like to say that we have voted against the savings made by the Labour Inspectorate. It is, of course, on the basis of the fact that we know that it is needed. It may well be that the rapporteur has just set an example now. But it means a great deal to look after the workplace and to look after the working environment we have. The rapporteur cannot escape the fact that she has helped to save it somehow. Then you could go in and try to talk to the Labour Inspectorate about where it is best for them to operate. Then I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that I know a great many employers and have been at a great many jobs. I've worked on Lindø myself for 28 years as an unskilled worker. I just want to say that there are a lot of employers who know that many people are worn out, but they do not have the jobs so they can retrain them to something else, because we have not designed the labour market for that. I hope that the rapporteur can go out and influence employers to say that there must be much more room for us to retrain people and that there must be room for one to be on the labour market, even if one cannot provide a hundred percent. I could understand that. But the other thing I'm having a little trouble understanding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165512	But that is what I think is the problem in this debate, namely that we continue to talk about the fact that those people cannot give a hundred percent and that we have to retrain the worn out. My point is: how can we put in so that we do not get the worn out? It's like it's hard to get through to Social Democracy. On that agenda you will maintain that you have the worn out and that we will have it forever. Come up with your ambitions here and let us try to look into a labour market where we actually prevent people from becoming worn out. That would be ambitious. It would suit Denmark's largest party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165547	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165550	Thank you. Perhaps with what the rapporteur said in his last remark, it would be very good if we were able to prevent wear and tear before it was actually a reality. But right now we are faced with large generations who have been on that grueling labour market and who cannot just prevent wear and tear, because that race has just run. So I'm actually a little curious about two things in real life, and one is: what is it, the Liberal Alliance will do about that work environment, when it's not the Factory Inspectorate? I think the rapporteur has yet to make a proposal on this. What is needed to avoid wear and tear and prevent it in the future? The second part about switching: is it rehabilitation that we are talking about so that you can actually get another education in the middle of your life? And if you imagine that all bricklayers are going to be retrained or taking another education in the middle of their lives, are we not really going to lack bricklayers because we should have trained twice as many from the start? Or how does the rapporteur think we are going to solve the Gordian knot?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165659	In terms of prevention and how we do it, the switch is an important part of what I see, but of course it is also automation, and fortunately we have made a great deal of it. Now I know that the hairs will stick to someone in here, but a lower corporation tax would mean that companies would have better opportunities to invest in new machines, in new technology, in research and invest in how to get better solutions in the workplace. So that's a good guess. In relation to switching, it is not about rehabilitation; it is not about seeing sick people entering a course, a municipal process through the job center. It's just that people, when they've been there for a number of years, naturally start talking to the workplace about what to do now, because you just know that they shouldn't have a whole life there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165751	So the proposal to prevent OSH stresses is about switching. What are the citizens going to live on when they are going to start another education? That was one part. The second part is: if a lower corporation tax should actually be a way of preventing occupational health and safety damage, because companies then buy better machines and other things, why do we still look away, that there is so much wear and tear as there actually is? For corporation tax has been lowered, lowered and lowered over a number of years, in fact for almost two decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165829	But a change of direction is not meant to be something about the fact that we are now taking some of the workforce. I mean, it's a flow that runs like it's been running all along and like it's running today, for example. within moving companies. There is a completely natural flow, people come in at a young age and are moving men for some years. Then they check out and find something else to do. That's how it works in a lot of industries, and I just think it's the same concept that needs to be spread out. Compared to lower corporation tax, it is still not low in Denmark, so there are plenty of things you could do there if we want to be a pioneer country in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165904	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Torsten Gejl of the Alternative, who has the right to use the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205165924	Thank you very much. I think one of the best things about this debate is that we are now going to talk this through so thoroughly and so in detail that it is almost going to be difficult not to introduce something similar to this model, after an election it probably won't be before the alternative, because we are positive, and we have been from the start, in relation to the Social Democrats' proposals about this pension scheme. I myself have stood here on this platform for all pension debates and question debates on pensions in the Folketing and talked about the German model, in other words that those who enter first into the labour market also come out first. In Germany it is after 45 years, which means that people come out a few years earlier if they have entered the labour market early. After all, the Socialists are not so specific in their proposals. There is no mention of exactly how many years you will have to spend on the labour market or how much funding is sufficient or how we figure out how many years people have been there. A lot of things can be attacked here, but in the alternative, we don't demand that everything be in place for the first time. We can accept that as big a proposal as this one is presented more generally and is going to be debated and going to run with a little bigger brush strokes. I am glad that a differentiated pension model, that is to say, first in, first out model, came on the table. Many of those who are most worn out in Denmark are also those who have been first in the labour market. I find it interesting that DF is approaching the model and that the Left is doing so to some extent and at least calling for negotiations on this basis. Unfortunately, this model does not solve all problems for everyone who is worn out. For example: school teachers, nurses, educators may have entered the labour market later and will not be able to get a few years earlier free and may well be burdened with psychological and physical work injuries. So we should not stop talking about pension models for them or stop talking about working conditions. Fortunately, we have major negotiations on this in the Ministry of Employment. There we have to be really, really good, and we also have to make sure that the senior early retirement pension is no longer secret. For some reason, it is almost impossible to get it going. We have been discussing how to get it going throughout this parliamentary term. And then there is one thing we need to be careful when discussing differentiated pensions and when discussing wear and tear pensions etc. We must be careful that we do not accept a certain premise, namely the premise that so many must leave so much of their health and their health and quality of life in the Danish labour market. Therefore, in the alternative, we would also like to discuss how to avoid wear and tear, in other words how to prevent it here, how to get to the root of the problem, and draw attention, for example, to: reduced working time. We have to have working hours in Denmark phased out, preferably down to 30 hours a week with the possibility of a job bank, where you can put in working hours, when in periods of your life you want to work very much, and where you can pull out working hours when you want to be less in the labour market, for example. Because you have kids. So we have to get out of the hamster wheel and we have to dare to think of a radically different future, for example. If you need relief during your working life, you can take a period out of the labour market on a modest income. So we also hope that we can use this debate to start a discussion on how to prevent wear and tear in the labour market rather than just treating wear and tear by means of various withdrawal options. In the alternative, we are incredibly pleased with the debate on differentiated pensions, and we are happy to support the further development of a model, and I think we should try to look to Germany where they have made it work. This can be done. So let us continue to talk about differentiated pensions, and let us see if we can find a model, but let us not forget that we cannot solve the problem at the root, that is, prevent so many people from being worn out. In the alternative, we have made our own adoption text. It comes here: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it is a major problem that too many Danes are worn out on the labour market before they reach retirement age. That is why a differentiated retirement age must be introduced so that those who come first on the labour market can also retire first. The Danish Parliament also notes that it is important to create a labour market that reduces the risk of people being worn out and affected by stress. It must be possible to live rich, meaningful lives, both before and after retirement. For this reason, the Danish Parliament must work for improving the working environment, introducing shorter working hours and, in the long term, citizens' wages, as these measures can promote sustainable development which reduces the risk of stress and wear and tear. • V 69).
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170446	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. None of our colleagues challenged that, so there are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170500	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the question. It's good to have this discussion. The Radical Left, like the other parties in the Folketing, is concerned with the worn out in the labour market, and we also think it is important, as several of the previous rapporteurs have said, and a high priority for us to avoid wear and tear. We do not think anyone should have a job for more than 40 years dragging rooftops or similar hard physical one-sided work. It is not because there is something wrong with dragging rooftops, but I can only remember that it is one of the examples that has been highlighted, so that if you have now entered the labour market at 15 years of age in a job of that caliber, you will be worn out. That's right. The aim must be to change functions along the way in a long working life. But once the damage has been done and it happens that people are hit by severe physical wear and tear, there must of course be a dignified way out of the labour market. That is why, as I am sure you are all aware, there is a radical proposal on the table that an improved senior pension can be granted. If, according to the radical proposal, 5 years before retirement, no matter where the age of the population is at that time, you can no longer do your present job, you can get a senior pension with a medical certificate. In this situation, you can also choose a flex job without visitation. This is a consequence of the fact that the senior early retirement pension has not worked as intended. We now want to take an initiative in the negotiations that may come to try to put in place such a senior pension that can correct it and, overall, give more people who are physically worn out a way out of the labour market. We have also put forward a proposal to finance this proposal. We would like to see a faster phasing-in of the increase in retirement age, so that by 2025 we already have a retirement age ranging from 67 years to 671 1/2 years. It would be able to finance this proposal and thus give a redistribution from the many people who can do their job to those who, unfortunately, have become physically worn out. On the other hand, the Radical Left is not interested in a generally lower retirement age. Those who can must be on the labour market and those who are worn out must not. It's very expensive when people move from the labour market to retirement... we lose revenue, we lose hands, we get expenses. It is a well-known fact that it is an expensive pleasure. If we as a society spend a lot of money here, they are missing elsewhere, and popularly said, the bill will of course end in the nursery along with the bill for the green transition and for climate change and all the other things we let slip down through the generations. We want to give a radical priority to investment in education and in the green and not in an earlier retirement age. However, as I said, we would very much like to take due account of the wear and tear that we do not want to model. We want to set up the labour market to prevent wear and tear; we want to set up the labour market so that those who are worn out can find a way out. We support the government's text. We would very much like to come to the negotiations on withdrawal which we expect to begin as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170818	Thank you, but there are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170823	Thank you. I have not seen the text of the Radical Left's proposal, but as the rapporteur puts it here, I have to say that when I look at the criteria for obtaining a senior early retirement pension, it is much better than the current one, because the rapporteur says that if you cannot contest the work you have and you can get a medical certificate on it, you can get a senior early retirement pension. But there is probably the problem that it is only five years before the retirement age, and that perhaps the Radical Left is the party in the Folketing that is most warm that the retirement age should just increase. And I have heard it put forward in the press that the funding needed to improve the early retirement scheme must be provided by a further increase in the retirement age. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205170922	Thank you. Yes, it is true that it is five years before retirement age that you will be entitled to this senior early retirement pension wherever we are in relation to the retirement age at the time when you come to your doctor and can find that you can no longer physically take care of the work you have. As I just said in my rapporteur's speech, we want to fund this proposal by bringing forward the increase in retirement age from 67 to 671 1/2 years already in 2025. However, we are not aiming for an overall retirement age which is higher than has already been set up in the great reconciliation of welfare. We just want to phase in the first six months faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171003	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171005	Thank you. Well, that's one great thing for the people who suddenly discover that their retirement age has increased by 1⁄2 years. So, unfortunately, I got confirmation of that. It is like demanding that in order to help a little more people to a senior early retirement pension, some others have to work longer. How many people does the rapporteur really expect to benefit from the early retirement pension? Is it even something that solves the problem? I would just like to remind the rapporteur that we know the figures from 3F: 20%. by 3F's members that is probably how about 40,000 people have left the labour market before reaching the age of 60, because they have either worn out or died. Is this the size of the rapporteur's idea that the senior early retirement pension should be able to help? Because that is where we have to rise if we are to solve just a small proportion of the major problems that are increasing the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171115	In the radical proposal for a senior early retirement scheme, we expect to have a slightly larger volume than what was originally intended for the senior early retirement scheme, i.e.. Some over 1,000 a year, when there is a considerably smaller number of people who have been awarded a senior early retirement pension in the years it has been in existence. And the radical proposal does not directly include people who are worn out before, for example. it was 60 years old. There it is still the well-known and existing system that comes into force. And, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, the ambition is that we should have a labour market that does not gradually wear people down to the extent that we see it today, either through automation or rotation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171155	Then we have come to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171200	Thank you. Those who can, must. It has sounded that way a few times from the platform today, and not surprisingly also from the Radical Left. But it is a fact that the later you start on the labour market, the greater the chance that you actually can. And, on the other hand, we know that for the bricklayer and the social and health worker, who starts significantly earlier on the labour market than many others, there is a greater chance that they will leave the labour market and home in the sick bed directly. I just want to ask whether the Radical Left really believes that this is a fair distribution of good retirement years to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171242	I don't think it's a chance. It is a risk that they move directly from the labour market to the sick bed. But right now we have a retirement age which follows an average life expectancy, and of course there are some who get quite awfully wrong about it and who, as the questioner says, go directly from working life to having poor old age. It is very difficult for me to find a model that is not either very bureaucratic or very expensive or a mixture of it all. We have chosen to adhere to the principle that there is the same retirement age for all and that it then follows the average life expectancy. I would really like to talk about all the things that make people get a better old age than they do today, because of course I do not think it is fair that people at the age of 60 or 65 or something like that are physically destroyed. But I am not prepared to say that what we have to do is a differentiated retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171338	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171340	Now, the risk is very great for some, and when the Radical Left continues to say that medical evidence allows you to have an early retirement pension, it is the same as saying that there are some citizens who need to be prepared for them not to retire until they are simply too sick to work. It certainly does not offer the prospect of a good senior life, where you might be able to crawl around the floor with the grandchildren and get back up yourself. Is it bureaucratic or expensive? So, is it bureaucratic to agree that we should have an equal number of years on the labour market? And is it fair when we talk about how expensive it is that it is they who have the hardest work to pay the most for the pension scheme we have today? Can the Radicals not at all see the idea that we are perhaps trying to think in a more balanced distribution of the number of years on the labour market and thus also the number of good retirement years where we are still healthy?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171451	Thank you. I have no wish that people should have poor old age or, by the way, poor health because of work. That is also where I put the emphasis at the beginning of my rapporteur's speech, namely that we want to have a labour market that does not in this way physically degrade people, and we would like to discuss this in all possible ways. I can see, moreover, a corresponding link between training and wear and tear. It is not necessarily the labour market alone that is involved here. I believe that this can be solved equally by means of an education system that brings more and more people with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171524	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171530	When Radicals were involved in implementing the welfare agreement, it was said that it was to be able to afford it when there were more elderly people in the future. But now we are looking at these years when this welfare agreement is really being phased in, we see that there has not even been a growth in public spending that has followed the demographic trend. There has therefore been less money for the elderly, not more, as was promised to the Danes when they were said to raise their retirement age. Will the Radicals guarantee that the party will not support financial laws in the future, which do not ensure that the demographic move is least followed? Or will one continue to cheat the Danes, as has been done over and over again, by spending the money that the Danes have created with a slightly later working life on, for example. to reduce corporate tax and then have a much lower trend in public consumption? This is historic cheating that the conciliation parties here have been involved in. There's less money per person. older today than there was before you made this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171644	Thank you. I take a little offense at the fact that the questioner believes that it is the Radical Left's intention to cheat the Danes. As you know, the Radical Left has not been part of the government and therefore also of the financial laws that have ruled the last 3-4 years and have thus not had a decisive influence on the Finance Act during the time the current Prime Minister has been sitting. We'd like that. That is why I do not want to take responsibility for the economic priorities that have taken place, among other things. in relation to taxes and in relation to training savings and in relation to much other good. I firmly believe that if we had not tackled the retirement age with the withdrawal reform, we would have had quite considerable economic problems today. Our room for manoeuvre had been completely different. Our labour market had had a completely different supply of labour. We probably had not had the benefit of the recovery that we have had. There were some independent reasons to reform not least the early retirement scheme and other things, and also to ensure an increase in the old age of the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171747	So let me try to ask in a perhaps a little different way and more forward-looking. The viewers came up with a report a year ago which showed that there are 22 billion. kr. In terms of sustainability, when we look beyond the medium-term plans. This means that we have made an increase in the retirement age beyond what was necessary in order to have sustainability. And remember that sustainability is, therefore, the money that is on top of a growth in government at 1.2 per cent, something we have not seen in the last 10 or 15 years. So there is a huge amount of money out there in the future because we have raised the retirement age more than necessary. Will the Radicals not help at least to guarantee that that money will be spent on, for example? I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Are they to be used for new corporate tax reductions or new top tax reductions, as under the latest government with radical participation? Or should they be traced back to the Danes in the form of an example. lower retirement age for those who have been very many years on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171854	Thank you. Well, I'm really glad that there's talk that we're starting to be in place with a durability in the Danish economy. I challenge the fact that there should be a degree of sustainability. I am also absolutely convinced that we had not reached a situation where we could discuss whether we had a sustainability or not in the economy if it had been the economic policy of Enhedslisten that should have been carried out when we made these reforms. I would personally, if I had to dispose of a room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy right now, look very, very positive on the green transition. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Assume, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted makes it possible to spend the money on a lower retirement age, so the money would have been used up very quickly. If the question is how I would prioritise a large number of billions in the future, then I would say green conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171938	Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205171951	Thank you for that and also thank you from me to the Enhedslisten for calling this query debate, which I think is really, really important. The age of retirement is becoming increasingly unfair. It is a fact and especially as some have to start early in the labour market and others have to start late. The same retirement age for all means just an extreme inequality. If you have had a tough working life, you should also expect some harsh senior years. Yes, Minister, life expectancy is increasing. Unfortunately, however, there is nothing to suggest that at the same time it means that we can hold to work for a long time on the contrary. Wearing is still pronounced. Too many people have to take painkillers just to keep working. The senior early retirement pension, which several people have mentioned during this debate, is just an emergency solution. It is, of course, a signal that we have had to work in an overly hard physical working environment, but it is also a signal that some people think it is okay that some people have to work for them. In the SF, we believe that we should look at a changed approach to retirement age. It must be differentiated according to the number of years we are on the labour market, but we also agree that it cannot stand alone. The working environment must be improved and ensure that we may be able to work longer in the future, but that requires a great deal of priority in relation to the working environment, because it will actually only work in the future. So we still have to take care of those who are already worn out. This means that we must give priority to the work done in relation to the Factory Inspectorate, but it could also mean that we should give priority to the work done in relation to the occupational medicine clinics, and this also means that we must demand from the business community that they also contribute and take the working environment very seriously. Yes to more education, even when it is the case that in the middle of life it will be necessary to change tracks, i.e. make the change of track that I hear, among other things. The Liberal Alliance is referring to. It makes quite good sense for those who do not last for so long, but it must be on an economic basis where adults also find themselves able to take an education. It could, for example, be done. I think it would be a good idea if the rehabilitation tool were to be used again. Then, of course, we need to clean up the law on early retirement and flexible jobs, because it is worthwhile working with retention in relation to our own job, but we also need a labour market that shows greater tolerance, among other things. in relation to age. It makes very good sense that extraordinary efforts are needed if we are also to be able to recruit for vocational training in the future. It is very difficult, I think, to imagine that in the future parents will say to their children that education is a very good idea if we in the Folketing cannot figure out how to take this situation quite seriously. For who would like to say to his child: You should take an education where you should not expect you to be able to hold to the retirement age, but should risk that you actually rather than have to leave the sick bed? This is an important area of action that we need to take quite seriously. So thank you to Enhedslisten for taking the debate and SF supports the proposal for adoption made by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172331	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments, so we now turn to the last rapporteur, Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172345	Thank you. In Denmark, pensions play a crucial role in a secure future when we get older and have to retire from a long working life. In order to ensure security, all citizens in Denmark have the right to a retirement pension, which we, in connection with the Finance Act here for 2019, have given a general boost. In addition to a national pension, there are fortunately a great many Danes who secure themselves further through private pension schemes, so that they can also continue a higher level of living when they reach their retirement age. In recent times, the waves have gone high in the political debate here too today on the retirement age of the Danes. This has happened with the proposal for a differentiated retirement age and an early withdrawal from the labour market based on years on the labour market. That all sounds very good and sympathetic, but how will it work in practice? We may still have to get a little bit smarter about that. As a starting point, we in the Conservatives do not believe that healthy people should retire earlier, and we are afraid that if they now follow the Social Democrats' proposals and put them into practice, it will lead to a new system, an expensive system, just as we did with the post-retirement wage, which has run out of hand. We must take it seriously that there are worn-out, but perhaps it is primarily a matter of looking at the working environment, working conditions and much more in the direction of conditions that require us to have a proper talk with the social partners precisely about those conditions. I can also understand from the Minister's speech that a process is already under way. Now I am not currently in the circle of employment rapporteurs, so I have not been to that meeting, but I can at least understand that a process is under way in which we are actually discussing it here in the Ministry. So, of course, we welcome that from Conservatives. For us Conservatives it is important that as many as possible are part of the working community. But, of course, at the same time, we must also ensure that there are good solutions for those who cannot stand to work until retirement age. Of course, if you cannot work for health reasons, you must have the opportunity to work less or leave earlier. Here we need to see whether the opportunities we have today are good enough. We would very much like to take a look at that. This applies in particular to the senior early retirement pension, where fewer people have taken advantage of the scheme than provided, and where there is a large difference between the number of people receiving a senior early retirement pension, depending on the municipality in which they live. However, this also applies to early retirement pensions for persons who do not meet the requirement of long-term employment. We must therefore support both those who can work to stay a little longer in the labour market, but at the same time we must prevent one from becoming so worn out that one has to leave the labour market early because one is worn out. In 2015, there was broad support for the principle of lifetime indexing in the 2006 Welfare Agreement, which means that the increasing lifetime of the population is reflected for several years in the labour market. However, we must, of course, be sensitive to proposals for solutions that take care of those who cannot manage to work until retirement age. That is why we in the Conservatives are very pleased that this week the Minister for Employment has already called the conciliation parties behind the welfare agreement to a meeting of the Ministry so that we can have a discussion and a deepening of the parties' proposals and get answers to the many unanswered questions raised by the proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172800	You're welcome, and thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are two who wanted to make brief comments. The first is sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172808	Now it's quite exciting to hear what Conservatives want, because Conservatives are part of the government. And then we are interested to hear what the answer is here and I think the Danish People's Party is interested in that too. Because we need to just assess whether the proposal we have made can be made in relation to granting an early retirement right. Now, I hear, some negotiations are under way, and it is quite interesting to see where the government stands. And the government is not just the Left; the government is three parties. So I have to ask: will Conservatives completely refuse to enter into an agreement to give worn-out a right to early retirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172856	I think it is very important, and I actually said this in my rapporteur's speech, to distinguish between worn and worn. For it is clear that if you are worn out, there must of course be some arrangements that allow you to withdraw from the labour market. And in my world, it is not about being able to withdraw from the labour market two years early because you are worn out. If you are worn out at the age of 48, you have to be able to do so at that time. So I think it is important that we keep the focus on those we should help with a possible new scheme or by changing the existing schemes should be those that are worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172922	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172924	That is to say, even if you have been very many years on the labour market, well over 40 years, Conservatives will never agree to an agreement that you should have a right to retire earlier. Is that what I'm hearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205172939	That's not what I said. But I'm just saying that in our world, we actually feel that if you're healthy and you can go to work, you obviously have to contribute to society. I think that is quite natural, so that if you have the ability, you also have the duty to contribute. It is not fair that some can withdraw earlier if they are actually fully capable of working, because then it is just others who have to pay for them. The ones we need to focus on are those who are really worn out, and that is where we have our focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173007	Sir. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173010	The rapporteur said that healthy people should not leave the labour market. What does Conservatives really mean by that? Should you be worn out before leaving the labour market? And what about those who started early? Does the rapporteur know what it's like to be a 14-year-old and to have worked hard for many years and to be worn down that way? You really do look well on the outside, and then you cannot leave the labour market because you have to be sick and worn out in order to be able to do so. Is that what the rapporteur thinks?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173054	I just don't quite understand how much difference it makes if you've started working at 14 that, based on this Socialist proposal, you can retire at 69 instead of at 71. In other words, that is not what solves the problem if, through a long working life, you become worn out. These are quite different things we need to get hold of. We must have a look at what the working environment is like, what the conditions in the workplace are like; that is one thing. Technological development is part of the solution. But, of course, we also need to have some arrangements that meet the 48-year-old or the 28-year-old, which we have also discussed today; there must of course also be some models. I don't think it has been discussed several times during the day that this saying that you are in the same job with hard physical work until you are 70 or 72 years old is the solution; no, I don't think that's the solution. I also believe, as several rapporteurs have said before, that if you have a very hard physical job, you have to expect some shifts during a working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173155	Will the rapporteur recognise that if you start early in the labour market, there is a greater chance that you will be worn out along the way, in other words when you have more time in the labour market? It's like having two hunting dogs, where you take one with you on a hunt... it's with you every day... and leave the other one at home in the sofa cushions and have fun. Then we know which one gets worn out first and which one dies first. Can the rapporteur recognise that the longer you are in the labour market, the more you are exposed to hard work and thus also to wearing out and not getting a decent senior life?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173230	I certainly think that we should address the challenges facing those who are being worn out. I think I have also said that we would very much like to look at that. I also think that we should be careful not to say that it is precisely one type of work that makes you particularly worn out. For example: After all, we are discussing the issue of equal mental and physical illnesses, and I believe that we also have to recognise that there are other industries or other professions where we are worn out, regardless of whether we have worked physically hard since we were 14 or 20 years old or when we started. So, I think it is important that we have some arrangements that take care of and are tailored to the needs of the individual and not just take such a general group and say that here you stay per. definition worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173310	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173312	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Unfortunately, I just have to correct the rapporteur in relation to what is happening with young people and retirement age. This is the case if you look at the Agency for Labour Market and Recruitment's projections of pensionable age that a 17-year-old can only retire today when she is 75 years old. What would result if the Social Democrats' proposals were implemented by two or three years earlier was that it would then be at best 72 years. But what I really wanted to ask the rapporteur was something else. I think what the rapporteur said about the fact that if you are worn out at the age of 48, you should be able to get a senior early retirement pension was interesting. Then you don't have to wait until sometime later. Then you have to be able to get it there when you're 48 years old. Does this mean that the Conservatives are prepared to change the principle of the old-age pension scheme today, which says that you can only get it five years before the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173417	No, I don't know if I said exactly senior pre-retirement. I'm just saying it's important that we of course have some arrangements that take care of those in our society who are worn out or ill for some reason. Whether it is because of work or otherwise, we as a society have a duty to be able to deal with those who are having a difficult time in society. I would very much like to take part in that and we, the Conservatives, would like to do so. In fact, we think it is very important that we take care of those who are challenged in our society. But what I'm just upset about is this saying that if you've been working in a particular industry, you're pr. Automatically worn out. I think we need to have this individual assessment. It is therefore more individually determined than just saying that it is a particular industry code that makes you per. definition is worn out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173502	Thank you. I understand that the Conservatives are opposed to the introduction of clear rights for employees, so that one can say: I have now been given a right to retire before the age of retirement or I have been given a previous retirement age, as the Social Democratic Party has proposed. I get that. Then I am sorry, if I have heard wrong, that the rapporteur was not talking about senior early retirement. I would just like to ask: now the rapporteur is talking so much about dealing with the weak and the worn out, but what concrete proposals do the Conservatives have to improve the early retirement and early retirement schemes?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173547	Well, I don't have any specific offers here and now. What I'm just saying is that there's gonna be a talk about this in which some negotiations have been convened on Thursday, as far as I know. That is where we must try to reverse the possibilities that exist. What I think, and what we have an ambition for, is that, in broad agreement, we can try to reach an agreement that can provide security for the situation of the Danes, so that we know that if we are run down, there is also a system to help. I think that is the most important signal. We can actually ensure that by making a broad deal in here. So we go constructively into this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173622	The next question is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173627	Thank you. In fact, I think it must be very simple for the rapporteur to answer this question when the rapporteur concludes by saying that we must ensure security and ensure a system where the worn-out can get help. So very briefly and very concretely: will the Conservatives help to ensure a right to wear out the labour market can get a former folk pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173655	Now you talk about worn-out again. I think we need to distinguish between whether someone is worn out or not worn out. Because if you're worn out, you're in a situation where you can't work full, and that's another situation. That is precisely where we as a society must be able to step in, and then there must be flexible arrangements, either a flexible job, an early retirement pension or a senior early retirement pension. We can call the scheme what we want, but that is where we, as a society, should go in and help, and that is of course also where we as an employee and an employer should have looked at how we might be able to retrain or change the possibilities in good time so that someone does not get worn out. I kind of think that's the most important thing in this. But I just think that when you are directly questioned about the worn out, you have to say that this is precisely where we need to help. That's what I've been saying from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173741	You have to get back in if there's a follow-up question. Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173747	The question is, of course, whether the rapporteur recognizes that there are people in some jobs in the labour market where there is a wear and tear, where, as we can see today, relatively many people cannot continue until they reach retirement age and there will be more as the retirement age is written up. So the question is quite specific and simple to the rapporteur: will the Conservatives help to ensure that the people who are worn out of work have a right to go to a former retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173833	I can, in effect, repeat what I said before. I agree that we have a challenge and if you have a hard physical job, I also think it is difficult to imagine that you can have a long working life in that particular job. That is why it is important that we focus on the working environment, and a dialogue is under way in the Ministry of Employment. I think that is sensible, and we must continue to work on that path. But there's also the thing about expecting you to change tracks along the way, so that you don't have these hard physical jobs through a long working life. Because I think that's a huge challenge. Then it is clear that, in relation to those who then find themselves in a situation where they become worn out or, for some reason, cannot work full-time, we must have some arrangements. We are very positive about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173922	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205173926	Does the rapporteur think that the pension system which the rapporteur's party has helped to create with a number of other parties in the Folketing is fair when it results that professional groups with short or no education have fewer years of life after they have retired than people with a long education, i.e. that the sosu, the warehouse worker, the bricklayer, the taxi driver have considerably fewer years with their grandchildren than, for example, the sosu, the warehouse worker, the bricklayer and the taxi driver have considerably fewer years with their grandchildren? The chief doctor and the lawyer? Is this a fair pension system for which the Conservative Party would like to take responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174015	We live longer, and fortunately we are also healthier and healthier for longer. Therefore, it is also the case that one should expect to contribute more time to the community before one can be supported by the public. But the problem, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted travels, is kind of different, I think. Because I do not think it is necessarily about the subject in which you work. I think it is more about some inequality in health, and this is, in fact, a very relevant discussion. I do not think that has so much to do with the sectors in which you work. But there is something we need to take care of to get more groups involved in creating a healthier lifestyle at all. This is a challenge that I think is very relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174108	However, the problem of precisely the fact that we are getting older, which the rapporteur is talking about, and that we are taking an average of the whole population. But the reality is that if we look at some of them with short education or no education, we can see that they have 4 to 7 years less after retirement because we have made an average where those who are lucky to have a really long life span can have a nice otium, while those who have worked hard and have come early on the labour market have an average shorter life span. This means that those who have worked most, most years, i.e. also get the least years as pensioners. That is unfair, it is notoriously unfair, and that is exactly what the Social Democrats are trying to address with their proposals, the injustice that they themselves have also helped to create with the pension system that has been created. Why do the Conservatives not want to help solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174202	After all, we have the approach to it that, as a starting point in this society, you have to support yourself and take care of yourself and contribute to the community. Then, of course, there are some who cannot do it, and that is where we must take action. I mean, the thing about giving a general right that, even if you're not worn out, you can retire early, you're really, really expensive. That is what we tried to do with the early retirement, and it would have cost 16 billion. kr. a year, if we had continued to do so until today. That would be money that we could not spend on our health care, for example. or anywhere else in our welfare community. That is where I think it is more important that we focus the use of our money on those who have the need. And, of course, those who can actually take care of themselves have a duty to do so. But it is another discussion about inequality in health. I think that is also a relevant discussion. But it doesn't have much to do with retirement, I think immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174257	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174303	When I listen to Mr. Knox... Anders Johansson's answer, it is quite clear that Conservatives are not part of a system based on rights based on when they have entered the labour market. So, first of all, I would just like to confirm that the starting point for the Conservatives for a debate is that such a right will not be guaranteed based on when someone has entered the labour market. In addition, however, there is just one question: whether the rejection of that part of the Social Democrat proposal also means that the Conservatives reject the funding that the Social Democrats have included in this specific context.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174400	As far as the right is concerned, I have answered it, and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, too. We are in favour of this being an individual assessment, and that is why it is certainly not our cup of tea that we need to create a new system of early retirement which is really, really expensive for society. However, it is clear that there are some challenges in relation to the funding of the Social Democrats' proposals, which we are not in line with in any way either. One of the challenges we have in Denmark is actually something like raising capital for our companies. Were we then going to increase capital taxes significantly? I think that's a very wrong way to go. In fact, we need companies that are competitive, that can raise capital, that can compete with foreign companies, and if you start imposing additional taxation on that part, it is at least a very, very wrong course in my world. In fact, we have the OECD's highest return on capital tax in Denmark, and that is what Social Democrats want to increase even more. In any case, I think that is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174506	There are not so many other proposals for funding on the table, but there are some. Among other things: in writing. - (FR) The Radicals have proposed increasing the general retirement age even more than has already been agreed, and the Liberal Alliance has also been involved in a proposal to abolish the post-retirement wage, that is to say, the last parts of what remains of the post-retirement wage. So can we not just hear: how do the Conservatives deal with the two funding elements?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174537	We are behind the agreement on the gradual ageing of the retirement age. In other words, we have no intention of changing that. However, we would very much like to look at if we can find some funding to improve some of the existing arrangements or within the existing framework can change the criteria. Then we are very positive about it. For example, one of the things that also emerges is that the senior early retirement scheme is treated and interpreted very differently from municipality to municipality, as is the early retirement scheme. If you can make clearer rules that will give you better opportunities for the citizen to see through his or her rights, then we are positive about that. But let us now sit down on Thursday and have a look at it, and then we are open to the solutions we can find in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174626	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur and pass on the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205174644	Thank you. Thank you for one, it has to be said, fairly thorough debate, which has been a long way away. I think that at least some of the parties will now have ample opportunity to discuss this issue again later this week, because the government, at the request of some parties, has taken the initiative to invite negotiations to look at the whole of this discussion about wear and tearing out of the labour market. I would like to sign the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, which is also supported by the Radical Left and the governing parties, and which I think provides a good framework for further discussion. I would also like to acknowledge the comments made by Rasmus Helveg Petersen and, for that matter, also acknowledge the many good observations made by Bent Bøgsted during this debate. I also owe my thanks to Enhedslisten for a good discussion. It has been a long time since we had a four-hour debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly on this subject, and I think that has illustrated the importance of it, but also some of the differences that exist in this debate. The Social Democratic Party must also be mentioned in this connection. There were many things you could say. After all, we got around a lot; among other things. It was said that the government had no views and that what we thought could be in a register which I think the Socialist rapporteur had analyzed for the time being, but then it should at least be a very large capsule, because what I started by saying was that we have to look at this whole issue, and we have, as it were, already before this discussion today, taken the initiative. We have current negotiations on working conditions with all parties in the Danish Parliament; we have had an evaluation of the early retirement and flexible job reform going through a number of months; we also note that there are challenges in relation to the use of senior early retirement pension because there is too much inequality; and then I say that I am also open to discussing some of the other issues that relate to it. Of course, I also owe it to you to say that I agree with one thing, as Mr. Christian Juhl said in this debate that the Social Democrats could have chosen to vote against the changes introduced into the early retirement scheme. After all, it was Mette Frederiksen who was Minister for Employment at the time. One owes it to say that, but one gets the impression that Mette Frederiksen wasn't there at all. She was in one way or another, it's almost the irony of fate that she carried that proposal through. Then there is always some Christiansborg talk about there being a majority for everything else, but we all know as members of parliament that you can vote as you like. So it was Mette Frederiksen who was behind that bill. I just thought Christian Juhl had a good point in saying that. Then there has been a major discussion about whether the social partners can then find a model and whether it is the one to lean on if one is to look at the whole issue of differentiated retirement age. There I have just noted that at least one of the two parties does not want to enter into that discussion, so no matter what, I do not think we can outsource this discussion to the trade union movement or employers' organisations. I think this is a political discussion we need to have. I look forward to this, in a way, and there should be no doubt that there are things that can be better done, both in terms of preventing wear and tear, but also in terms of ensuring that we get a look at the arrangements that exist and that some people today may not be able to use and that we will get them better. At any rate, it is from this point of view and with an entirely open mind that I look forward to the political negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175120	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, in fact a large number. The first question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175127	Then I'll try again to ask the minister what the government wants. What does the government think about this? Now, I don't want to ask you how the government will prevent you from being worn out, but what will the government do for those who are worn out? Now we mentioned that with a capsule, but when I say it can be on a small capsule, it's because the government didn't mean anything about this. I have not heard the government come up with anything other than that it has called for a sea of negotiations, but you can always do that, but that is why you do not have to mean anything. So I have to ask the Minister again: what exactly will the Minister and the government do, apart from convening all sorts of negotiations that may take a long time? What exactly will the government do? What are the government's proposals to help those people who have been on the labour market for many years and who are worn out in addition to looking into the senior early retirement pension? We must be able to make a concrete proposal when we are so keen to ask for the Social Democrats' proposals. Why has the government not come up with a concrete proposal? And what is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175226	This is very strange, I must say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. We're discussing the work environment settlement. In the light of the proposals made by the Committee of Experts, where a former Social Democratic Finance Minister has been chairman, the government stands there. The 18 proposals that are there are, after all, some that I am promoting. These are some that I think should be discussed. That's some of what the government thinks. Those are some good suggestions. They can be supplemented. I think we've been sitting for six months discussing early retirement. I think we have had four or five evaluation meetings. At the last meeting I announced that I would pick up and make the proposals that I have to change the early retirement pension. I changed the early retirement part. It was one of the first things I did. I made a change of law which was broadly supported in the Folketing because the law that Mrs Mette Frederiksen made as Minister for Employment was not precise enough. In fact, in many ways it was a scandal because it helped to prevent people from receiving an early retirement pension. I have now announced that we must look at the area of early retirement, and I have also said that this issue deserves a political discussion. So the Left has meant a great deal, and the Left believes that something more needs to be done for those who are worn out and cannot be in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175341	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175343	Well, that's a politician's talk and talk about it. The working environment is actually very good, and we are participating in it, but it is the prevention part. The only thing that has then been said, and the only proposal that you make, is that you want to look at and negotiate on the senior early retirement pension. As far as I am aware, the Minister has not yet been able to confirm this, and the Minister himself confirmed that he has made a single suggestion as to what to do in relation to early retirement, even though we have been sitting at a number of meetings. So I just have to say that we have a government that has meant nothing at all. What it spends the most time on is pointing the finger at the rest of us who mean something, but the government doesn't even make any proposals, even if you are the government. That's what I don't understand. We will then just have to make that clear if I cannot get an honest answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175422	I admit, and you can get an honest answer to that, that I'm in government. I would like to admit that and it will continue for a long time to come. I'm not pointing my finger at Social Democracy. For once, I have not actually pointed the finger at Social Democracy today. I have taken note of some historical points, such as when Mrs Mette Frederiksen, as Minister for Employment, changed the early retirement scheme. I have, in fact, welcomed this discussion and invited you to political negotiations. So I don't think there's any reason to hang around like that. There is, in fact, reason to sign off on the fact that we would like to discuss this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175456	The next question is Mr. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175459	Thank you. I also hear that the Minister for Employment is concerned about the need to create security and that it is important to get this debate started. After all, the Minister for Employment also mentions that there are things that can be better done; there is a senior early retirement pension. But what exactly is the Minister's position? It runs a lot like that in the same shed. I would also like to bring to the attention of the Minister here the speech I read a few days ago in the West coast of Jutland, where one of the colleagues of the Minister for Parliament in the Left says that the Social Democracy proposal is a bomb against the common welfare, that it is naive and that it is unthinkable. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175554	Well, I'm afraid I'm not reading the Jutland West Coast on a daily basis, so I don't know what's been said there, and I don't think we're getting around that either. I now note that the Social Democratic Party has made some political proposals, and I would like to acknowledge that. We must then discuss this politically. There are many questions to ask. When the Socialist rapporteur was most pressured, he said that this is very technically difficult; that is not a clear answer. And that is something for which we simply have to say as it is, and that is something for which the Socialist Employment Rapporteur should not be mocked. When there were really detailed questions today, they said: I cannot give an answer because it is too difficult to answer. As the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party have also mentioned, we have had this discussion before. This does not mean that you should not be interested in seeing whether there are things that can be better done. What, then, is the Left proposing? Well, the Liberal Party has already taken initiatives as a government party, both to clarify the granting of early retirement in relation to people who are in the process of resource development and to clarify the legislation, and now we have some current negotiations that should lead to political agreements in a short period of time, and these are some that we have had over several months.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175705	There is no pressure on the button for a follow-up question, but there is now. Here you go, asker.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175711	Thank you. Well, welfare is just about people having security, also about their old age, so this is welfare. It is important to meet those people who, after many years in the labour market, are not able to go to work any longer and cannot stay there until they receive their pension in the late 1960s or early 1970s. I am one of those who, as a young man, worked in a slaughterhouse, and I could see that former comrades from the slaughterhouse went on early retirement. We have lacked answers to those people in the industries, slaughterhouse workers, carpenters climbing on roofs, sosu assistants, etc. who cannot be on the labour market until well into the sixties or early seventies. Will the Left help to guarantee those people a right to a former retirement pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175807	What I want to help ensure, and I think this is an even better offer than a previous retirement pension, is that you can withdraw from the labour market. I think it is absolutely essential that, if you are 49 years old, you have the opportunity to receive an early retirement pension if your ability to work is completely destroyed. Then Mr. After all, Troels raven himself funny during the debate when it comes to switching tracks. Changing paths along the way is quite natural, and I believe that Anders Johansson, the Conservative rapporteur, also mentioned it. This is part of what the trade union movement has been asking for for many years. We made a tripartite agreement in autumn 2017 and set aside 100 million. kr. to the possibility of making a change of track. If, for example, you're gonna have to... is a slaughterhouse worker, one can get another training for precisely not having a physically wearing, straining job. I think that's one of the things that deserves much more attention. Far more people will have to make a change of track during their working lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175907	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175909	Thank you. As my colleague next door, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, it is not true that the government has meant anything about this. The government of the Minister for Employment has done so to a great extent. On 30 December, the Minister said to the newspaper.dk, and I quote it is a very short quote: I do not think we should introduce a differentiated retirement age. Quote out. So I guess the government meant something, and the minister must then answer if the government still means it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205175944	We had a debate a couple of months ago on the same theme. I think it was in the autumn that we also discussed differentiated pensions. I take the view that I see a great many challenges in making a differentiated retirement age, but when we call for negotiations and discussions, we do so with an open mind. Social democracy has a position, the Danish People's Party has another, other parties have a third, and Enhedslisten has a fourth, and they do not come either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180012	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180015	I understand that the Minister still means what he has been quoted for and, as is absolutely right, he has also said from the platform here, so there is nothing new in it. And that is also a clear signal to the Social Democratic Party that there will be no solution for differentiated retirement age, out of the negotiations starting on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180036	If you scrape away all the political christiansborg polemics, and I think you should, then I actually have the impression and also the hope that both the Social Democracy, the Danish People's Party, the Left and other parties that are part of that agreement actually now want to try to find solutions on a theme that matters to really, very many people. So I hope we can. It has been seen in political negotiations before that, if we are to try to find solutions, we have to bend some ends, and we do so on a daily basis here in Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180115	The next question is Mr. Jan Johansen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180116	I would like to ask the Minister what I asked Conservatives about. I don't know if the minister's hunting. At least he's got a farm or a farmhouse. But would the Minister agree with me that when you have two hunting dogs and use one for hunting every day, from it is a young dog, and the other is a lap dog that is not used for hunting, but for having fun and sleeping in bed, the last one is not worn out in the same way as the one used for hunting? Would the Minister agree with me that the more you are used, even if you are not a dog, the more you are worn out? For that is at least what I have observed out there in reality, namely that when you are used, also as a human being and for longer periods of time, you are also more quickly worn out. And when you start when you're young, you get worn out for many years. Therefore, they must be longer in the labour market and risk being so worn out that they will have a poor retirement time as seniors.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180229	I think I'm gonna move a little away from that dog picture. I think it will be too difficult to give an answer within that framework. I think it is important to say that you can be worn out in many ways. Well, I recognize that you can be physically worn down by having been on the floor for 45 or 50 years, crawling around your knees. It can be super hard. There is also the slaughterhouse worker. But you can also be mentally worn out. You can be under stress, you can be hit by a lot of other things. That is why I think this discussion is too serious to say only that it is a matter of physical wear and tear, because it is a matter of all aspects of working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180311	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180313	I fully agree with that, but it is just an example. For example, I have. Even the 50th anniversary on the labour market next year. I started when I was 14. And I can't help bringing it in. When I wake up in the morning and I don't have any more pains, I'm sorry, because I think I'm fucking dead. Because one has worn out when one has entered the labour market so early. I have colleagues with whom I have worked for many years. I've been spared the last 71⁄2 years. That's what I'm saying, and I can feel it. But the workmates I've been with and went on the ships out on Lindø The yard and was a cleaner with are worn out today when they are the same age as me. That's why I know from experience that you're wearing out faster. And it is a pity to see that they are going down and judged by some people and some judges, whether they are worn out or not worn out. They have the right to do so and they have been on the labour market for so long that they have earned it and paid their taxes for so many years. Then I also think they should be allowed to go a little earlier than those who have not worn out so much. There I use man as an example, and it's out of the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180420	We must set a good example for the people, and that is why we must refrain from swearing like hell. The minister is responding.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180427	Well, I do not disagree that people who are worn out should not be tormented and tormented by being in a labour market. That is why we have made arrangements that can help ensure that you can withdraw from the labour market when you have an urgent need for it or a current need for it. This is both in relation to early retirement, but also in relation to early retirement. And you just have to say that senior early retirement has a lot of challenges in it. That's what I've been addressing here today. I told you, we have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180458	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180502	Thank you. In fact, I would like to hear the Minister's very personal opinion that the people I know a few of them at least take the heaviest turn, so that the whole community machine can run; those who take the physical work; those who meet every day, also at kl. 6.00, and those who take night work etc., die 9 years before the doctor and lawyer and other highly educated. Some say 7 years, some say 9 years I don't know what's the right number, but we can figure that out. At least they die before. Another thing that is even worse, I think, is that the number of years that are the difference in life expectancy between the highly educated and the uneducated has doubled over the last 20 years. Does the Minister not think it is quite unreasonable if those who take the hardest turn should actually have a shorter senior life if everyone has to retire at the same time? Is it not reasonable that they should also have, for example. 18-20 years, like the highly educated have, without pain and without mental or physical impairments?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180615	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180616	I am not in a position to present all health aspects at this late hour in this debate. If we're going to have a discussion on this, I'll be happy to run for it. But then it will be with the Minister for Health when it comes to life expectancy and what is crucial in relation to different groups of people. I am not in a position today to give Mr. Christian Juhl a clear answer to here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180640	One more remark is evidently wanted, even if you have not pressed it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180644	Well, that's what this debate is all about: the injustice that some people have to get the lowest pay, the hardest work and the shortest senior time. That is what is unfair on this issue; that is why we are discussing it. And it is known that there is a difference between highly educated and uneducated because they do different kinds of work that work differently on the body. So I don't think it's that hard to answer. The question is whether we should have some justice in our senior times, so that we all have a fairly good and fairly equal senior time before we, as expected, die and have to leave here. Surely it is not fair that those who have worked hardest to make things work should have the shortest time and the lowest life pay. These have been the facts of all the time the Minister has been sitting here in the Folketing. That is just the question we are discussing at the moment. It is so unfair that there is inequality in health, inequality in senior times, inequality in pay, and that it is the same group that draws the shortest straw each time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180743	I mean, what I answered was the question of going into a long discussion about lifetime. And that's what I said to Mr. Christian Juhl that I couldn't today. I think it is absolutely crucial that you can withdraw from the labour market if you need it. That is what I am discussing here today. That is precisely what is crucial. There I recognise that more needs to be done in a wide range of areas, for example. prevention, which we are discussing at the moment. Sir. Christian Juhl is himself part of that discussion. We are also looking at the evaluation of some of the other arrangements, which are about how to withdraw from the labour market early, if necessary. Then there is the whole discussion about lifetime. There, too, one is influenced by one's way of life. There are many different things here: How do you live? Do you smoke? Do you drink? After all, all these things have a bearing on how long you live. I know it myself • I enjoy smoking a cigarette every once in a while; nor is it very healthy to do so. But it's an active choice I make myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180844	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180845	If we just say that it is a question of giving a right to retirement three years before the retirement age for people who have been 41 or 42 years on the labour market and now we disregard the technical and zooming into the conciliation procedure, can the Social Democrats' proposal as it stands and if a technical solution is found, then, after a choice in the current conciliation, if an agreement is not reached before? Or will it require that the Social Democratic Party, before an election, and the Danish People's Party, if they want to be with • cancel the settlement? Or will they alternatively be bound by the compromise and not be able to implement this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180935	Now the Socialist proposal is not quite as clear to me as it does to Pelle Dragsted. So now I would like to know exactly what is in the Socialist proposal, what it looks like, and then we will have to discuss it in the political negotiations. And then I would like to answer Pelle Dragsted on the question of the conciliation obligations of the old agreements we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205180959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181000	Okay, so I can't get an answer to that today. That's the way it is. But then I actually just want to follow up on the more political, as Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned it. I think it's a little funny that the Minister is starting to talk about all sorts of things with regard to health and all sorts of other things with regard to Mr. Christian Juhl's question. It was a little the same with the Conservative rapporteur before. The fact is that we have a pension system today that operates with an average lifetime. There are some groups of short-term graduates where the average has a very short lifespan, and some groups of long-term graduates where the average has a longer lifespan, which means that we have a pension system which notoriously discriminates against those who have a short-term education or no education and have been the longest in the labour market. Does the Minister think that this is a sensible way of setting up a pension system?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181051-2	Sir. Pelle Dragsted says he could see that he did not get an answer. Well, you just got an answer that I'm gonna learn more about the Social Democratic presentation, and then I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted an answer. That was just an answer, and it is becoming so elaborate. After all, we are basically very divided, I think, about how to look at the welfare arrangements we have. I think it is precisely solidarity in a welfare society that you can withdraw when you need it. That is precisely what we need to ensure, both in relation to early retirement and early retirement. It is precisely to ensure that it serves those who may need it. I can see that Mr. Pelle Dragsted sits and smiles at my answer, and that's fair enough and that's exactly what I think we should do more about. Then you can imagine many other models, and we will then discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181141	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181145	Thank you. Thank you, too, for reminding us that giving some people the opportunity to get early retirement, if that is the case, is an expression of solidarity. I fully agree with that. But that's just not what we're talking about here, because it's gonna sound like the senior pre-retirement pension is gonna have to face the challenge that, even if our life span gets longer, there's still nothing to suggest that you're getting less worn out by, for example. to be a paver. And some people still have to start working when they are 18 and some who can wait to start working for less physical hard work until they are 28 years old. This means, as long as the retirement age is the same, that there are some who have to work for relatively many more years than others and perhaps even with physically heavy work. And then we're gonna eat them off with them getting a senior pre-retirement pension. Doesn't the Minister think that's unfair?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181244	I think that if you have to choose between a senior early retirement pension and a pension, you should have listened to what Hans Andersen said, because I do not think you have followed the whole debate at all. There are some fairly large economic differences • I also assume that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen knows huge economic differences, where senior early retirement pension is much more attractive financially than getting a pension which, unfortunately, for good and bad may not be able to cope with the way in which you live at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181320	Now everything can't be made up of money. In other words, if you are entitled to a senior early retirement pension or an early retirement pension, it is also an indication that you have become ill, that you have been worn out of work and actually have no chance of getting a good pension year, just as you would probably have if you had had less stressful work. That's what we're talking about. It is the quality of life, it is the possibility of still having time with the grandchildren, time to cultivate your leisure interests and also to have some good retirement years before you might end up getting sick, so to have some proper time before you get there. That is the time we are talking about, and that is what the Minister keeps not commenting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181402	No, I would like to comment on that. I do not think we should rewind the time so many years to have a retirement age of 67 years. Actually, I think it was back under Poul Nyrup Rasmussen. Let's just keep that in mind. And it is not the case that we have become a worse society since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was Prime Minister 20 years ago, on the contrary. We live longer, we get richer as a society, and that's good. It's just really, really good. And it is clear that, when we live longer, we must also help to ensure that we also have a robust society so that we do not get into the situation that it is future generations who have a huge economic challenge. It's part of this discussion. Now we have not discussed much of the economy here today, and I myself have deliberately not wanted to do so, because I think that one thing is the economy, but another is how to adapt from the point of view of the welfare society helping people. But, of course, there must also be an economic framework for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181502	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181503	Thank you. Now, of course, we have talked a lot about what divides us on the pension issue today, but if we are to talk just a little bit about what brings us together, I would say that the Minister calls some parties, unfortunately not the alternative, for negotiations here on Thursday. And this is not a very small exercise, because there must be a lot of politicians in the Ministry of Employment, and there is also usually a nice line-up of skilled officials at the Minister's negotiating table and a good service with cuts, coffee and cake and water, etc., if it meets the same standard as usual in the Ministry of Employment. When the Minister launches all this and calls for these negotiations, I am curious to know whether there is one thing the Minister is looking forward to, whether there is one thing the Minister can mention which is positive in what the Minister has, after all, understood from the differentiated pension model presented by the Social Democratic Party. He may mention two or three things, but it is also good to have just one thing that makes the Minister look forward to those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181611	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181612	I am always looking forward to meeting with the parties of the Folketing, otherwise there was no reason to invite them. But what I look forward to and what I think I am discussing with the parties on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181619	There is no follow-up question. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181623	If the Minister has now called for meetings on Thursday, we expect, as always, that there will also be an apparatus, such as Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl just described, who is ready to assist in also getting clarification on outstanding issues etc. I think that the answer given by the Minister to Mr Seligman's question. Christian Juhl's question earlier was a very good example of it, i.e. this, that there may be some calculations, for example. about expected years of life at certain levels of education, on which it would be obvious to get closer calculations. So just to make that expectation vote: will it be the case that the government is prepared not only by the Ministry of Employment but also by the other government ministries to assist these negotiations in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181716	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181716-2	I simply have to say that I did not understand the question. In other words, if the question was whether we are going to answer the questions put to us, then the answer is yes and I will coordinate with my fellow ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181728	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181730	The reason I ask is that we have prepared ourselves a little in the Social Democratic Party and among other things. I would like to ask a few questions in advance because we thought that when we come to these debates it might actually be very useful to have some of these specific answers. And that very question, as Mr. Christian Juhl, who was unable to reply to the Minister before, asked the Finance Committee to the Finance Minister on 4 January with the expectation that there might be a sensible answer to that. However, the Ministry of Finance has replied that this would not be answered within the time limit; in fact, it will not be possible to answer that question until the end of March. So just to be safe, can the government even answer any of these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181813	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, that is, it's late, but this is just too far-fetched. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht himself has been a minister and knows very well that there may be difficulty in how and how to respond. I hope that the Social Democrats come from a sincere heart to actually want to have some negotiations, and that it is not just, if you may say so, because it should look good in reality, but that you are genuinely interested in going into a negotiating room to try to find solutions. That is at least the position that I take as Minister for Employment. That is why it goes without saying that we cannot sit down on Thursday at the start of the first negotiations and then believe that we can make a final agreement there. That is where we set the framework for how and how we are going to talk to each other, just as it is in many debates, as I think Mr President. Benny Engelbrecht has also been part of the • most likely also while he was minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181901	The list of authors has been exhausted, so I would like to thank the Minister. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur for the questions to the Commission. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for the concluding remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205181913	Thank you. It will then become apparent whether it will be final. I have now not planned any provocation to any of the rapporteurs present. I would just like to take this opportunity to thank you for a long, good and committed debate. I would also like to thank the Socialist People's Party for supporting the motion for a resolution we have tabled. I should now like to begin by expressing my regret at the many people who have been sitting out there watching us and who may think that we have talked too little about them and that there have been too much parliamentary fudges about which settlement is applicable and when it should be terminated and what can be done and what cannot be done. I have taken part in it myself, and I am sorry, but I would like to try to explain that I feel it has been necessary to have those questions made crystal clear what the problem really is in this discussion, namely that a large majority in the Folketing has tied each other up, that the retirement age must continue to rise as the average life expectancy rises, and that such a conciliation puts very narrow limits on what can be done about the problem as long as the conciliation parties hold that principle together. What we have unfortunately got out of the debate is that the parties in the welfare agreement are all standing firm: the retirement age must continue to rise as agreed. Unfortunately, we have also been confirmed that this means that by 2020 the retirement age will be increased to 69 years, with effect from 2035, unless the conciliation is terminated before the parliamentary elections or one or more of the parties jump to the goal when the button is to be pressed by 2020. That is what is at the heart of the problem. That's why we're standing here. That's why there's a lot of anger out there. It is, of course, because the vast majority of parties here at Tinge have tied each other up to the fact that the retirement age must only continue to rise, regardless of the fact that we can see that the wear and tear in the labour market is increasing. That is what means that many more thousands, than we already see, will be excluded from the labour market in the years to come, because they cannot stand to work as long as the conciliation parties think they should, or because they just do not have the necessary qualifications to bite their way into the labour market. It is, of course, the fundamental injustice that means that those who enter the labour market early will have a much longer and usually far more grueling working life and far less good years after working life than those at the other end of society. That is what causes insecurity and anger and raises the questions that I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. It may be that some people think I'm too picky and hard to make comfortable, but I don't think I've seen answers to the three key questions that I myself encounter, every time I'm out discussing this with, let's just call them ordinary people who are exposed to these conditions. So allow me to repeat the questions: why do we have to work until we are worn out or until we fall dead? Why should those who enter the labour market early on not be entitled to as many good years after working life as those with long education and high wages? What should all those people live on who get out of the labour market long before retirement age in the light of all the restrictions on cash benefits, early retirement, early retirement, sickness benefit and cash benefits? These are the questions that are being asked and the solutions that have been discussed here today by the conciliation parties are not solutions to those questions. Sooner or later, the conciliation parties will have to deal with the reality that is hiding behind those issues. I shall then sign for the Social Democrats' initiative, because that can only be interpreted as an attempt to provide some answers to those questions. I simply do not think that it will be seen as an adequate response for the simple reason that they are based on the same premise that I have just described, namely that the retirement age simply rises out there. But we have had one important clarification today: there is one problem, and that is that all the conciliation parties have tied each other up with this, with the increases in retirement age, but there is the beginning of a second majority in the Parliament only the beginning, I do not overestimate the possibilities. I am just saying that there is the beginning of another majority which speaks of ordinary workers having some rights to withdraw earlier. So suddenly there is a completely new contradiction, or not a completely new one, because we are some who have stood on the view that grows for a long time, you might say. The two cannot be reconciled in the long run. This recognition may not have been fully achieved everywhere, but that is what this is all about. Then I have taken note of something else. The more we talk about rights, the more others talk about the fact that we also have to look at that with the senior early retirement pension and the early retirement pension. These are the answers we get from the conciliation parties. That, what is to be said, is a positive statement that they must have a nod for from here. That's a good thing. And if the result of this at first on this side of the election is that we actually get some real improvements in early retirement and early retirement, that's very good. I just have to say that it does not solve the problems, and it leaves the Social Democratic Party with an election if they cannot get through with differentiated folk pensions in this situation. Then what do they want? Will they terminate the conciliation and start negotiations with us who would like to discuss rights, or will they bow their necks and submit to the tough law of conciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182542	Their comments were brief, and the first questioner is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182548	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen, for having initiated this debate, which has been long and not at all uninteresting. We've turned a lot of things around. I just want to know if the rapporteur also shares my disappointment a little. We have been debating, I think for four rigid hours, and we have not managed to get the Minister to say a single thing about differentiated pensions... not a single thing about this, which could be used for anything at all... even though negotiations have been called for on Thursday. Is it just me who is disappointed, or should we not have been able to share, within four hours, at least a tiny bit, which led a tiny bit forward in the concrete thing about the very concrete call for this question debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182637	Yes, but now the rapporteur must not take it as if I am such a haughty old man. But when I have not been disappointed, it is because I know the Minister and his views, and he has made it very clear before we came to the meeting here today: we do not need a differentiated retirement age; and he has maintained and confirmed that is his point of view. So, yes, that's why I may not be fully responding, or I've got too much hard skin on my soul. That's probably the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182709	But if we are not to do so, what is the rapporteur's analysis of the Minister's convening negotiations on the same subject?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182724	Care must always be taken to examine the kidneys and intentions of others, and that is not what matters in politics either. What matters is not what we stand and say, but what we actually do, and we do have the benefit of seeing that. I can only wish and hope for all the people who are affected by these crazy rules, adopted by a majority in the Danish Parliament, that there will be some good solutions, and from the point of view of Enhedslisten we will support every single one of those who are going in the right direction. As I said before, one can of course hope, at its most optimistic moment, that the pressure that is gradually being exerted on the conciliation parties, and not least on the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, will bring about some real improvements in early retirement and early retirement, which we can hope for, and we will support and vote in favour of if it is, and welcome it. We just have to say that this does not solve the problems caused by the increase in the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182817	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182820	I'd like to thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen just to give the opportunity to round off here. While we have been discussing this question, something has happened in the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has called for a so-called technical briefing on the retirement age tomorrow, I understand. The press It is, as I understand it, a technical briefing where the Minister will be present and where the press will be present and where there will be officials present, but where it will not be possible to record sound or to record pictures. In view of the fact that other activities of a communication nature have also been under way by the Ministry of Finance, which has also been criticised, I would really just like to know whether Mr. Finn Sørensen has an idea of whether this is normal practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205182920	No, I've only been here for seven years now, so I don't dare say if it is. But I would at least like to say a few words about the fact that we have now had a long debate, in which the Minister has been on the floor several times, no, twice, sorry, one, two, many times, and where he has not mentioned anything about the fact that such an initiative is under way. In some way, I think it is strange if it is, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says. For now we have, of course, agreed that in this circle we are discussing it, and then it was nice to know that in the meantime the government has apparently been sitting and preparing a major briefing, yes, now it is a technical briefing. We're all a big question mark, but I really think it's weird. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183014	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183015	I must point out that I wondered just as much as Mr. Finn Sørensen does, and especially because it is not something that the Minister has indicated in the course of the debate, in other words that something like this was happening along the way. And then perhaps I just have the quiet wonder that it is not exactly because the governing parties have seemed to be particularly accommodating in providing information and providing opinions on their own positions on this. It would then have been possible to imagine that some of the technical information which is evidently available in the Ministry of Finance could have been given in the course of the question debate we have had here?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183103	After all, we do not know what will be provided by technical information tomorrow, so I cannot answer that question. However, I have to say that it reinforces my impression that none of us, including the Social Democratic Party, will be able to raise their noses after that debate on Thursday brings some concessions to what the Social Democrats want: one or an agreement on a differentiated retirement age. I have just to say, as I said here in my attempt to round up the debate, that it would then put the Social Democratic Party in front of an election: which way will one go? Who will you try to make a good solution with? But we do have the benefit of that, and we will have to take it at that time. And then it's exciting, because it could be a warm-up for Thursday what's going to happen tomorrow. We will follow this with great attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183155	Then there are no more authors, and I would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday, 7 February 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183212	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183238	As an old defence rapporteur, it is, of course, a pleasure to have B 52. And thank you for the motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten here on a referendum on Danish accession to the banking union. The proposal imposes on the government and calls on a future government to hold an indicative referendum prior to possible accession to the EU's strengthened banking cooperation, what is called the banking union. Enhedslisten refers to the fact that the decision on Danish participation will have huge national and economic consequences for Denmark and great importance for the supervision and regulation of Danish banks, whether we choose to participate or not. As I think the Danish Parliament is aware, the government has initiated a work which will lead to a decision on Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation by autumn 2019. A working group has been set up which is in the process of resolving the relevant issues in relation to whether Denmark should participate in the cooperation. This concerns, among other things: on possible consequences for Danish mortgage loans and the consequences for financial and economic stability in Denmark. The government has not yet decided whether Denmark should participate in the cooperation and we await the work of the working group and analyse all relevant issues. These are issues which are quite important and which we feel should be highlighted before we have the full picture of what participation will mean for Denmark, and it is only then that the government can decide whether we believe that Denmark should participate. I can honestly say that personally I have not yet decided whether or not I am in favour of Denmark joining the banking union. That is why we do not think it appropriate at this stage to address the issue of Danish participation in the strengthened banking cooperation. We therefore also believe that it is premature to start calling for a referendum, in that we do not really yet know what we are going to have to vote on. We also feel that it is too early, at least before we have decided whether we want to join the banking union, to start talking about a referendum. After all, a referendum does not make sense if we decide that we do not want to join the banking union. Then it does not make much sense to demand a referendum on that subject. Then, of course, we are going to propose that this is the status quo and that we are not in it. We therefore reject the motion for a resolution. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183541	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183546	I think it would suit the Minister of Business to stop wearing that mask pie. Now, of course, we have heard time and again from the government's various ministers when they have been to meetings on this area in Brussels that yes, but a working group has been set up and so on. etc. If you get them a little on the blade, you can clearly see where it goes. There is a clear position on the part of the government that you want to join the banking union. The only thing that prevents the government from doing so is that, for tactical reasons, it would be better to get the blue stamp through some mandate this autumn. I think it would suit the Minister for Industry to take this opportunity to say that the government was in favour of it. If not, then the Minister for Industry must explain why it is that it is not going to commit to a referendum • quite quietly a referendum, just as I have an understanding of the Social Democratic Party's commitment to it by its President. Why won't the government give that hand to the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183657	Well, that's not true, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says. We have not decided whether or not to join the banking union. If we had it, we'd tell you. But we don't. I don't know exactly what those statements are, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth refers to, but it may well be that some of the governing parties have said that they want us to join the banking union. I do not have the full overview of what the parliamentary groups might think which individuals in the parliamentary groups might think so. But the government hasn't decided that we're going with the banking union. There are important issues to be analysed before we decide whether we want to go or not. I therefore believe that among other things. this with the future of the Danish mortgage system is crucial because it is extremely important for the Danish economy. If our mortgage system falls to the ground, I would not recommend that we join the banking union. So there are quite real concerns that mean that we have not yet taken a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183804	Why, then, can we not have a hand in giving the Danes the opportunity to have a referendum on this issue? After all, we have heard the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, say clearly that Mrs Mette Frederiksen would give the Danes a vote before accession. Why, then, is it that we have a government that is craving social democracy and is not even able to just tell the Danes that they are allowed to take part in this? Why is it so important that it is a decision that should be taken in the Folketing alone, when this means that the ECB can close down Danish financial institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183849	We don't come crazy for Social Democracy. If we did that, we would demand the same thing as the Social Democracy, and that is what we are not doing. We insist that we make this decision calmly, that we analyse what it is about, what consequences it has for Denmark, for Danish mortgage, for the deposit guarantee, for a large number of other matters that we need to know before we can even take that debate on an enlightened basis. I mean, I can understand if Mr. Knox... Kenneth Kristensen Berth thinks it's best just to discuss it without knowing what it's all about. Kenneth Kristensen Berth will win the debate. However, I believe that we have a better chance of getting a proper decision-making process if we first have clarity about what this is about and what consequences it will have to go with the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183932	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205183934	Thank you. The Minister said that he was not aware of whether there were individual members of the government who had said that they wanted to join the banking union. I have a piece of news back here from 4 November, when there was a public hearing about the EU with the party leaders and where the Danish Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, says: There are more and more indications that it would be wise to join the banking union. I just want to say: is it still the case that the government is leaning towards joining the banking union?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184009-2	I've noticed that statement, so I haven't missed it. But the government's policy is that we haven't taken a position yet. We take a position when we have the explanation that will clarify what the consequences will be for Denmark to be part of the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184029	After all, at the same hearing, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, asked the host whether one would have a referendum on the banking union that, yes, one would. That means, of course, that if Mrs Mette Frederiksen's words remain in force, there is a majority in favour of adopting the resolution we are discussing right now. So I just want to hear the government: are you prepared to come into the minority on this issue and insist that the Danes should not be heard in a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184057	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184058	In other words, we are voting against the motion for a resolution and if the resolution is voted through, then it is certain that it will be required of the government to hold a referendum. And of course we must navigate that after we obey what is decided in the Folketing. But we do not think it is the right time to decide here that there should be a referendum, because we think it is wisest to first clarify what should be voted on before that decision is taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184136	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184139	Professor Jesper Rangvid of CBS says that Denmark's accession to the banking union is a major decision.Yes, it is probably the most important decision since we had to decide whether we would participate in the euro. Isn't it okay if I say, sir? Minister, come out of the bush? Everyone else is looking very seriously at these things, and somebody is tripping and can't give a clear message. It's, honestly, okay for me. But it is not okay for me that in two and a half months' time we are going to have to discuss European elections and we have no idea whether we can be sure that the government will promise the electorate that they will at least be allowed to vote on it. We have been cheated many times with the EU over the years.I remember as far back as 1972, unfortunately, I am that old. I would like to know whether the government will not come out of the sand a little and then give a guarantee that we will at least have a chance to discuss it and vote on it, because it is so important a resolution, both for and against. It is a little pathetic that a government cannot give it a guarantee. The opposition can do that, and it's kind of nice, but you should be able to do it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184257	I am not in a bush; I stand on the speaking chair of the Folketing and have an open debate with the Folketing on this matter. And I do not see why it should have a particular relevance in relation to the European Parliament elections, since the decision on a referendum will be taken by the Folketing. That's why this is where we have to discuss it, just as we do now. Finally, I do not see anything pathetic about the government insisting that we should have a good, enlightened basis on which to make decisions. In fact, I think it is a good parliamentary practice to insist on this instead of making premature decisions on an uninformed basis. It is not the government's view that better decisions will come out of it, and we are also insisting in this case that we should take decisions on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184347	I do not think anyone here has asked for somebody to make a decision on an uninformed basis; I think we all like as enlightened a basis as possible. And that's why many of us are starting to care about it when some people start talking about it. What we are talking about is whether the Danes should once again be cheated in order to take a position on something very, very important, such as. The professor from CBS says, and whether it should take place in a closed meeting of the government. It is quite crazy, because everyone knows, including the rapporteur, that an election campaign about the European Union in Denmark is fortunately also about how little and how much openness and democracy there is about the enterprise called the European Union and how much one can trust it. That is why it is so important for a lot of people, and I also believe that a lot of people in the country will punish you for it if you do not give a clear answer to that question to the European Parliament elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184438	I hope that people respect a government that insists on making decisions on an enlightened basis, rather than just rushing out and trying to have a debate before we have clarified what we really have to deal with. And we think it is best that we first find out what the consequences are for our mortgage system, for example, which is absolutely crucial for the Danish economy, and then address the question of whether we should join the banking union. And before we consider whether there should be a referendum, it makes sense to clarify what it really is that one would have to vote on at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184516	I thank the Minister. We move on to the list of rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184539	In the Social Democratic Party we have not yet taken a position on whether we are supporters or opponents of a Danish membership of the banking union. It is also too early to decide whether we should have a referendum if we think it is a good idea to join. In the Social Democratic Party, we think that the debate on the banking union is complex and should be treated as such. Therefore, it cannot only be reduced to whether you are in favour or against increased EU cooperation. Because if the banking union really has the final result that the banks are growing even bigger, taking even greater risks and will act more irresponsiblely, as has been pointed out in the debate on this, then Denmark must exercise the utmost caution. We await the government's statement on the pros and cons of joining the banking union before we take up our position. And in the natural consequence of this, we are discussing our position on a possible referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184627	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184631	Excuse me, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, but what on earth is this? Your own President, the rapporteur's own President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, is standing on live television promising the Danes a referendum on banking union, and Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen here in Parliament and says that he will certainly not promise that. Well, what's the point? What kind of double-play is the social democracy currently playing in the area by area? What kind of cowardly jargon is it to drive around in here? What is it you try to deceive the Danes by saying that you want to pursue a strict immigration policy, because when you come in here, you vote blankly? How can you say on open television that you want a referendum on the banking union prior to Danish accession? When you come in here, you don't want to? What kind of play is being played against the Danish people? I think it is so unworthy, so unworthy!
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184735	The questioner needs to remember that we're addressing each other in the third person in here. The rapporteur is in favour of replying.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184739	It's okay, there's got to be something for the audience too. I would say that, as I understand it, Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said that she is leaning towards a referendum. Now I have been looking at what has been said, and that is our position as well, but we would like to make the decision on an enlightened basis. I understand that the Danish People's Party already knows what comes out of it. After all, it is no secret that since Mrs Mette Frederiksen said this in the autumn, there have been some very violent consequences for England in relation to the referendum they have had. So we want an enlightened basis. We want to know exactly what we are going to vote on and what the consequences are for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184811	It's extremely unworthy. What the Social Democratic Party is doing over these months is simply a democratic attack. Time and again you vote yellow to things down here in the Chamber, which you say in public you support. And now it has been said clearly and clearly to the Danish people that they want a referendum on banking union, and then they are not even able to go down here and say the same thing. You even send an apology to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, then Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen avoids spanking. I think it is too poor; I think it is scandalous; I think that, as Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and his party are currently making fun of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184853	It seems as if there is a panic before closing time with the Danish People's Party, since you have to get so excited, but it must Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth will talk to Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen about later. This does not change the fact that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that she is leaning towards a referendum. So does the Social Democratic Party, but we would like an enlightened basis, and we would like to know what the consequences are for Denmark, also in relation to the overall EU cooperation. I don't think that's so hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184914	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205184917	I have to say, I'm deeply amazed at what's going on. I mean, we've made this proposal, and it's not the first time we've done it. We asked this question specifically because we believed in Mette Frederiksen when she was on live TV in a party leader's round and was asked by the TV host whether she thought there should be a referendum on the banking union, and Mette Frederiksen's answer was clear: yes, I think there should be. Excuse me, but if you cannot believe what the Socialist President says to the Danes, and you have to see that you do exactly the opposite in this Chamber, how can you ever believe in Mrs Mette Frederiksen and the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185004	But the exact opposite would be to say that there should never be a referendum. I understand that Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti are the only ones who know the consequences of this bank package. We say that we just want to know the consequences of the content for Denmark. I don't think there's anything strange about that. That is what the government has promised to return with. And then we also know how to shape the issue for the citizens if it comes to a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185028	Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, was not asked whether she knew the content. She actually said she wasn't so familiar with the content of this interview. But she says, "Yeah, that's clear." So I would just like to hear: when you sit as a Dane and hear the Socialist President say yes to a referendum on the banking union, how can you ever believe in a yes from the Social Democrat in the future when that is not the case and you turn 180 degrees on a plate as we see it happening now?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185105	I don't know if it's the same program I've seen. But now I have just checked it out, and I see that Mrs Mette Frederiksen says that she is leaning towards a referendum, too, in the subsequent interviews that have been given, among other things. in Berlingske Tidende. Having said that, I think it is perfectly legitimate to wait for what the government is returning with, also in relation to what question it is that one should answer yes or no and what consequences it has for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185125	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185127	Thank you. I would like to take up the rapporteur's thinking on what to say 'yes' to the banking union has consequences. I think this is a complicated issue and I think that we should have a very thorough discussion on it, both here and out among the population. And when we know the consequences of that, the parties can choose their position. Another question is, of course, how we are to decide whether Denmark should join the banking union. And when professors and others say that this is perhaps the most important issue since the euro, then surely it cannot be the case that for tactical reasons social democracy will choose a referendum or not choose a referendum, depending on whether it is difficult to get through with the people or not. For then it is that I agree with those who say that it may well seem rather untrustworthy on the part of the Social Democrats. As far as the content of the banking union is concerned, it is complicated and we need to have a thorough discussion on that; I fully agree with that. I have no opinion on it yet, and I will first hear what the wise people say to me about this kind of thing, because I have no idea. But I have no doubt that we should not think tactically about whether the people should be allowed to vote on it. My position is clear: of course they must when people say that it is so important a decision for Denmark. The fact that the Social Democratic Party does not yet have a position on it shows that it is complicated to find out what to think about it. But I didn't think that you would think tactically about whether we should have a referendum or not. Whether we should cheat the citizens of a vote or not cheat them is, in fact, the question we are discussing today. • Whether we should get to grips with things properly before we take the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185310	In other words, Enhedslisten has also said many things about the European Union. It is not long ago that the Enhedslisten thought we should have a vote as in Britain, but I have not seen Enhedslisten suggest that we should have that now. So things change, but that doesn't change the fact that I think it's quite fine with an enlightened basis so you can take a position on it when the government returns. I have only seen two parties who have decided on the consequences for Denmark's participation in the future EU cooperation to say yes or no to the banking union, and that is Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185339	After all, there is no doubt about the position of Enhedslisten on the European Union. We have said that we need to have a thorough discussion about this and that we are in favour of our leaving the European Union, but we could never dream of tactically considering whether we should have a referendum on it. We must even have a very thorough debate and a referendum on it if we are to be withdrawn from the EU, especially after brexit, because some situations have arisen that could not be dreamed of. Of course we must have a thorough discussion first, and we must also have that about the banking union, but we could never dream of cheating the people of a referendum, never! And that is why it is important to know where the Social Democracy stands: will you think tactically about it and say that if it is difficult to get through with the people, then we will not take the vote, but if it is easy to get through with the people, then will we take a referendum? Surely we should not think tactically about such things; it should then be a democratic principle that is upheld as a party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185431	So, I do not know whether it is also tactical on the part of the Enhedslisten that no proposal has been made that Denmark should follow England out of the EU. When Britain had a vote, the Enhedslisten was out saying that it should also have in Denmark. This is not something I have seen highlighted very much either in this Chamber or in the media. I also believe that the Enhedslisten knows what the consequence of this has been for England in terms of resigning. I do not know whether this is the situation that is also wanted in Denmark. This does not change the fact that our President has, of course, said that we are leaning towards a referendum, but that we think it is quite fair that we know the consequences for Denmark and are making up our own mind about for or against the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185507	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205185521	I'm starting somewhere else than I really would have started. There are people here who wonder why a person like Klaus Riskær Pedersen with the blurry reputation he has can come forward in the world and can get a lot of signatures in a very short time. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen just delivered the explanation. For what the citizens, what the electorate is experiencing in this country, is one electoral deception after another, and social democracy is leading it. Social democracy led it under Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, and the Social Democratic Party apparently intends to take the lead under Mrs Mette Frederiksen. That's why we see one yellow vote after another in this floor. Out among the citizens there is no understanding of that. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and his social democratic cronies, that if it is the line of a parliamentary election in which the Social Democracy may have won, then the Social Democracy will stand exactly the same place as the Social Democratic colleagues in the Netherlands, in France, in Germany, etc., because the Danish people will not tolerate a further deception from the Social Democracy. There is a great saying in English called: Fool me once, it's your fault, fol me twice, it's my own fault. You know, the first time you're fooled, it's the one who's fooling you. The second time you're fooled, you're to blame. I don't think social democracy will survive fooling people again. Then I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for raising this question about whether we in Denmark should have a referendum prior to participation in the EU's banking union, and it is, of course, a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party tabled in the last assembly of parliaments, and at that time, as you know, only the Enhedslisten supported the proposal. We had actually had an expectation that this time the Social Democratic Party would support this proposal, but I have to say that it does not do so, whatever the Social Democratic President may have said or done on television, live television, where the impression had to be quite clear to the Danish people, namely that there would be a vote on the banking union. The government has said that the government has not yet determined the government's position, and the government therefore believes that it is untimely out-of-date and that a decision should not be taken now on whether or not to hold a referendum. That's what it is. But that a party that has clearly said clearly has said! The fact is that the competence to close Danish banks, the five systemically important financial institutions in this country, is transferred to the European Central Bank, where Denmark is not sitting because Denmark is not a member of EMU. That is why we are not on the board of the European Central Bank and will therefore not be able to prevent the closure of a Danish financial institution. Similarly, we, the Danes, Danish bankers, are in danger of paying for cracked financial institutions in Italy, Greece, Bulgaria, all sorts of places. And there's only one thing to do, and that's paying by box one. That is the burden that will be imposed on the Danes without hearing the Danes about it. We certainly do not think that should be done. We believe that when you take such a drastic decision as to oblige Denmark to pay debts from other financial institutions, then it is clear that then you should ask the Danes first. If you allow an ECB without Danish representation to close a Danish bank, then it is obvious that if you have to surrender sovereignty in this way, it is all about asking the Danish people before then. That is not where we are going to stop, because there are also problems with mortgage credit, as we in the European Committee have seen on several occasions in the European Union quite simply do not understand how it is screwed up. It is not understood, and that is why one intervention after another is being made, which means that our mortgage system is being challenged. Therefore, it is quite reasonable to ask the Danes before such a far-reaching decision is taken. We therefore naturally support the proposal presented today by the Enhedslisten, just as we naturally supported our own proposal when it was discussed in the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190031	Thank you. And the first to make a brief comment is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190039	It was sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth from the Danish People's Party, who was very busy with the change of attitude. We haven't changed our mind. To change your mind would be to say that there should be no referendum. If you look at it a little, it says here in headlines: DF changes its attitude about the residence requirement, DF changes its attitude about savings at the Danish Labour Inspectorate. DF changes its attitude to everything else. Why should it be something specially social democratic, as if the Danish People's Party has never changed its mind about anything? So I would also like to ask: what is wrong in principle with sometimes voting yellow? I guess there are also times when the Danish People's Party has voted yellow. As far as I have been able to see in the years I have been sitting in the Chamber, that has not been a problem in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190123	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190123-2	That is because it is electoral deception, I would say to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, when you go out and say that the idea of an island is ridiculous, but that when you come down to the Parliament hall you cannot find a way to vote in favour. That is because it is electoral deception, I would say to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, when you say about Soulsmark, that there should be no change in it, and when there comes a suggestion that the child's best interests should play a greater role in the question of whether or not to have a residence permit in this country, you vote yellow again. It is because it is electoral deception when you come and say in an open debate on live television that you want a referendum on the banking union, and then down here in the Parliamentary Chamber you end up with probably, according to what I understand from Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen to vote red. It's electoral deception. It is the recipe for electoral deception, it is the recipe for how to make a people dislike politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190220	So, it is very strange that a party of about 15-16 per cent can speak on behalf of all Danes and blame the Social Democrats for the Klaus Riskær phenomenon. I know someone who has been around all the parties here in Denmark. This does not change the fact that the Danish People's Party itself has changed its position many times and is responsible for the entire municipal reform and is now running around and is the great advocate of Udkantsdanmark, even if you have voted for it yourself. This is the way we can go on instead of going on about the fact that there might have been some things that had changed. And that's just what I think we should be allowed to discuss. After all, we have not said that we should not have a referendum, whereas the Danish People's Party has on several occasions changed its position one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190256-2	That's totally wrong, and Mr. Knox knows that. Lars Aslan Rasmussen well. Since 1995, when this party was founded, we have had a wish that there should be two bodies in Denmark there should be the state and there should be the municipalities. Then we reached a compromise on the regions, and from the same day as this compromise was reached, the party's position was that the regions should be abolished. There is no party, perhaps with the exception of the Left, which, like the Social Democratic Party, has sailed around like a fishing boat on the high seas from post to post to catch some voters here and there. There is no party in this country that is more populist than Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190334	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Jan Ejnar Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. But preferably from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190354	Thank you. I almost fell dizzy over the bandbulls of the Danish People's Party. It's cheerful to hear when you're not in the line of fire yourself. Thank you for the floor. We are dealing today with a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. The motion for a resolution is short-sightedly aimed at holding a referendum prior to any Danish accession to the EU's banking union. And it is a motion for a resolution which is very similar to a similar proposal, which had the number B 130, which the Danish People's Party tabled last year. It is not every day that we see political agreement between the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, and I am, of course, pleased to see that these two parties too can find common ground and common ground, but nevertheless I must unfortunately say that it will not be a brotherhood that will cover the whole of the Folketing, because although the proposal has now changed the sender, the Left still believes the same as we have always believed, namely that we should not have a referendum on this issue, since it is not a question of surrender of sovereignty. As I also pointed out when we had the debate last year, this is a rather hypothetical discussion, and it is because it has not yet been decided whether to seek support at all for Denmark's participation in the cooperation. As you know, this is happening at the moment. We are therefore still awaiting the outcome of this analysis, as the Minister also mentioned, although I agree with my Prime Minister that more and more points towards a banking union being a very good idea. The Enhedslisten writes in the proposal • and I quote: • Decisions on whether Denmark should join the EU's banking union can have huge national and economic consequences for Denmark and major influence on the supervision and regulation of the largest Danish banks. This applies regardless of whether Denmark decides to join the banking union or remain outside. I kind of agree with that. It's a big and important decision. But we are elected as politicians to make decisions, including major decisions, also important decisions, decisions that affect Denmark, decisions that affect the Danish economy, and some decisions are more important than others. So the fact that this is an important decision is not an argument in itself for holding a referendum. The Danish People's Party then justified its motion for a resolution, B 130, by the fact that Danish participation in enhanced cooperation will mean that sovereignty will be given to a supranational authority, namely the European Central Bank. And however much I have for the Danish People's Party, I choose to allow the legal assessment of this issue to be made in the Ministry of Justice. And in the Ministry of Justice it is clearly estimated that there will be no surrender of sovereignty if Denmark chooses to join the banking union. And since we in Denmark do not have a tradition of referenda on EU issues when there is no question of surrendering sovereignty, we can therefore conclude that there is no reason to have a referendum on this matter. There is no need to make an exception. Now it shouldn't just be like that because we don't usually, or there's a tradition for that. It is a good tradition for us, of course, to follow the constitution. When the Constitution requires us to hold a referendum, we will hold a referendum. And vice versa, when the Constitution does not impose a referendum on us, we take our responsibility upon ourselves. Then we act as elected politicians, and then we make the decision that we are elected to make and the one that we think will be the best for Denmark. Nor did we have a referendum when we joined the Treaty of Nice. We did not have a referendum when we acceded to the Treaty of Lisbon. And then there are some who might remember as far back as the EEC package in 1986 I could, I was out freezing with the chair, I understand, and hang on lampposts. It was February, it was really cold and it was a good result, by the way. But the reason why a referendum was held at the time was that the government was in a minority. The government was unable to obtain a majority in the Folketing for membership of the EC package, and that is why we had a referendum. So this is quite a different situation than it would be in the case of a question of banking union. I also fear that some slippery path will be introduced, because if you are going to have a referendum on this issue, are there not other issues on which to have a referendum? Why just the European Union? Why not agreements that are being made at the United Nations and elsewhere? So, we have a representative democracy in Denmark with few referendums. I think most people are quite right in saying that this is the case. So, with these words, I can say that the Left does not support the motion for a resolution. I should also like to thank the Radical Left and to say that they do not support the motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190858	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205190904	Thank you. This is actually the second time Enhedslisten has put forward this proposal. It is true that it was tabled in the last session of the Danish People's Party, but in the previous session it was tabled by Enhedslisten. The reason why we are putting it forward again is, of course, the announcement made in the party leader's debate by Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Socialist President, in which she clearly said that yes, they wanted a referendum on the banking union. I have an article here from 21 November, in other words from about two months ago, when Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is very puzzled by this change of course with the Social Democratic Party. As I said earlier, Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen was up on the platform, I am deeply puzzled. After all, I thought that Mette Frederiksen could be trusted when she said that she wanted a referendum and that it was a yes, not a perhaps. But I just want to hear Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, if he is happy with this change of course in the Social Democratic Party, where you are now back in the position of trying to avoid referendums if you can get away with it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191012	I think Enhedslisten's rapporteur is a bad man when he tries to make me relate to whether or not Mrs Mette Frederiksen can be trusted. So it's too much of a temptation if I have to deal with it. I should like to leave it to the voters of the Social Democratic Party to decide whether they believe that Mrs Mette Frederiksen can be trusted. So I have no comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191039	Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur to address the question of a referendum that the rapporteur mentioned. The rapporteur said that we did not do that either with the Treaty of Lisbon, nor did we with the Treaty of Nice. That is what I myself, and I think a lot of Danes, really go and are frustrated about, i.e. not being allowed to vote on such major issues. I am here with an article by Jesper Rangvid, a chronicle from Berlingske, where he says that he has a lot, very hard to understand that there is no question of surrender of sovereignty when the question, for example, whether Danske Bank is to be settled or saved, will be decided by the European Central Bank and not by us here in the Folketing if we join the banking union. Is it not precisely a question of sovereignty whether you want to save a Danish bank or not save a Danish bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191141	I think we are simply in very different places. I mean, I do not see such a broad popular frustration about the fact that we have not voted on the Treaty of Nice and the Treaty of Lisbon. I think that if we go down to Strøget and make a voxpop and ask people if they are unhappy that they have not voted on the Treaty of Nice and the Treaty of Lisbon, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen be very, very lonely with his view that there is such a great popular desire for it. You might find some, I won't deny that. There are also around 8% who have indicated in an opinion poll that they want to get out of the European Union altogether. Moreover, as regards the specific question, it is a decision that Denmark itself can make, but it can of course have an impact on whether one can continue to be a member of the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191233	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191236	Perhaps it was quite appropriate that this particular rapporteur should welcome the Radical Left and say that the Radical Left has the same views as the Left on this matter. Is that really sir? Jan E. Jørgensen's sincere opinion that leaving the power to dismantle one of Denmark's five most important so-called systemic financial institutions to an authority in which Denmark is not represented is not an expression of the surrender of sovereignty?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191320	Yes, that is my sincere answer, because what the Danish People's Party says is not correct. This is not a question of the surrender of sovereignty, and if the European Central Bank or the Banking Authority makes a decision that Denmark does not want to follow, we will just leave it to it. Then, of course, it can have consequences for whether we can continue to be part of the banking union, that goes without saying, but it is therefore a decision that we can ultimately make ourselves, but with consequences of course; that is almost self-evident. So to place the premise that the Danish People's Party does so on the question is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191400	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191402	- Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen mention just one example of the fact that we in Denmark have chosen to ignore a decision from the EU system, that is to say to ignore a decision from the EU system and not follow it, but just do what we want? After all, with the children's cheques, we tried, and I actually believe that the Left was also involved in trying, but that would not be the case when the government was given power, and that is often the case. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen mention just one example?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191437	The difference between the banking union and the issues that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth mentions that Denmark can at any time choose not to follow an instruction from the joint supervision, and that may then mean that we have to resign from the cooperation on the banking union. However, there is a big difference between having to leave the banking union, which we are not in now either, and then we are just back at the status quo, and then having to leave the EU completely, which could be the consequence if we chose to ignore all kinds of decisions from the EU system. So that is simply another situation. We can withdraw from cooperation on banking supervision if a decision is taken which we do not want to follow, and therefore there is an essential, fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191528	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments, and I should like to welcome Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191538	Thank you for the floor. After all, the Minister for Industry has already explained the general position of the government. We should wait for the investigation that has been set in motion to assess participation in the banking union. And then there will be some government that we don't know who is at that time, that is by the end of 2019, and decide on the outcome of the investigation and then decide whether Denmark should participate. It is a good custom that we must follow that we do not hold referendums when sovereignty is not given in the sense prescribed by the Constitution. And there it is that the Ministry of Justice already four years ago, i.e. in 2015, came to the conclusion that a Danish participation in the banking union does not trigger a §20 situation. For these reasons, the Liberal Alliance and the government believe that motion for a resolution No. B 52 both anticipates the course of events and breaks with a good Danish tradition and should therefore be rejected. Having said that, however, I would also like to make some additional comments, which are somewhat in line with what the Minister for Business said earlier, where he said that he personally finds it quite difficult to decide whether the banking union is a good idea. I myself am waiting with great excitement for the investigation that is coming, and I am glad not to be pressured to take a position now because, as I understand the banking union, it also solves a number of problems, not least that the left has pointed out, and which I actually sometimes think it is right to point out. Because there is this whole question of moral hazard, which unfortunately I do not know what one calls in Danish, but which is that one should not bear the consequences of one's actions. And one of the challenges facing these systematic banks is precisely the moral hazard, and that is a problem with all organisations that cannot in practice go bankrupt, and that is to say public institutions and banks that are too big to go down. So if you could get some kind of solution through the banking union on the moral hazard problem, it wouldn't be so bad, but we have to see what the government's bank advisors say, I would have almost said, to advise the government on. As far as I understand, what is in this single resolution is that the first ones to lose all their money by shutting down a large bank are the shareholders, and that is a sound principle that should make them more critical of irresponsible actions. I am also looking forward to seeing what the committee will say about a more professional financial supervision, too large and very complex banks also make very large demands on supervision, and there might be some specialization and experience perhaps theoretically surpassing the expertise of the Financial Supervisory Authority I do not know, but that is something that I look forward to hearing more about. That is why I am in a good position, and it is another argument for waiting for the investigation to follow the argument that sometimes we hear, namely that the banking union is an improvement in the internal market and that it should be understood as a way of making the internal market work better. So I am in such a state of wonder at the quite clear critical attitude towards the banking union, which not least the left side stands for, but for the reasons I have mentioned, I am also in doubt, which is why I am very pleased to hear what will come out of this final analysis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191946	You're welcome. There are two brief comments. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205191952	Thank you. Now you can hear that the Liberal Alliance has a lot of doubts as to whether you want a referendum. I have here an article in which Mrs Mette Bock, the current Minister for Culture, the leading candidate of the Liberal Alliance for the forthcoming European Parliament elections on 30 April 2015, that is, just before the last parliamentary elections, clearly says: the position of the Liberal Alliance is that there must be a referendum so that the Danes can be asked if we are going to join the banking union. What do the rapporteur think the electorate of the Liberal Alliance is thinking when you have a situation where you say 'yes' to a referendum on banking union before the elections, and now you stand on the platform of the Folketing and say 'no', we do not want a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192045	I believe that our electorate has an incredible respect for people and parties who choose to use the right that everyone has, but not everyone takes advantage of, to think about, and therefore also understand that it is of course very important to get this overall description of how the banking union works.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192120	After all, Mrs Mette Bock is dealing precisely with this matter in that article. She says that it is easy to take a position on the question of a referendum, regardless of what is being achieved in this analysis, which has been going on for many years now. That is why we must expect to be able to get an answer. What is the reason why this issue has been completely turned around and promised the people and voters a referendum on the banking union prior to the elections and is now standing here saying that you will vote against a proposal from the Enhedslisten for a referendum? What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192159	Well, I have made a mistake if I have said that we categorically reject the question of a referendum. We're just saying that we think the right order to do things is to see the result of this analysis and then relate to what's in it, and then take it from there, if you have to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192220	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192223	I sometimes get a little confused when I listen to the Liberal Alliance, especially after the Liberal Alliance has entered government. Because when we had an election campaign four years ago, the Liberal Alliance decided to be a very EU-sceptic party. Sir. Anders Samuelsen was even told that the Liberal Alliance was more EU-sceptic than the Danish People's Party, but then something seems to have happened. Suddenly one has become in favour of abolishing the defence reserve. Perhaps you're a little on the way to becoming a supporter of this. Where exactly is the Liberal Alliance moving? If the Liberal Alliance does not continue in government after a forthcoming parliamentary elections, can we expect the Liberal Alliance to be back on such an EU-sceptic course, or has the party's new self been found on such a small course as the Conservative People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192324	I believe that the party I represent, like many other parties, is marked by the fact that the term of office we are leaving has been very, very dramatic in terms of foreign policy in a large number of areas, but also in terms of brexit. The generally changed world in which we have come to live since the 2015 elections also means that we have to take a very thorough view of a wide range of things that might otherwise have been taken for granted in the past. I think that the parliamentary term since 2015 has been extremely dramatic in terms of foreign policy, including brexit.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192411	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192413	So, sir. Henrik Dahl has had a thin stomach with the rest of the party in relation to the EU's position. I actually think it's good to know. So, it is good to know for the Danish electorate that if you are to support a bourgeois EU-critical party, there is only the Danish People's Party to choose in the forthcoming election. So, sir... Henrik Dahl thank you very much for clarifying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192437	I do not know whether the Rules allow peristaltic issues to be discussed, so I will refrain from going into a deeper peristaltic discussion myself. I mean, being principled is beautiful, but being stubborn may be inappropriate. So whether one is principled or one is stubborn is also something that slightly depends on the eyes that see. I could play the ball the other way and say that perhaps you should also be careful not to be too stubborn.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192509	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And welcome to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192517	Thank you. When we were going to deal with this, I thought about just taking the minutes from the last one and reading it. Because this is one of these proposals where you can say: we've been there before; then we'll go back to the carousel. But, of course, we are discussing matters properly when there are matters on the agenda, including those that are dealt with for the second and third time. First of all, I would like to talk a little about this with referenda, because it is mentioned by both the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party with such a dreaded, treacherous smile: we must have a referendum, because then we must be afraid. Referendums don't scare me. But it could also have been interesting to discuss how we can have a really engaging and engaging debate on something as important as: how is it that we can control banks that are much bigger than Denmark; how is it that we can actually have proper control of the banks that operate across national borders together at European level? It might also be interesting not only to shout for a referendum, but perhaps to say: how is it that you work with the inclusive and participating democracy in other ways? I was at a meeting this weekend, where we were just going through a number of the many ways that have been done in Canada and Australia, where people have been working on citizen stuff that could go in and assess these kinds of cases. There is also the whole question from Ireland, where before referendums citizens were reduced to having a proper process and not just taking matters out for a referendum. In relation to the banking union, I would say that if I just read the comments on the proposal, I actually think I would be a little tired of just saying the same thing as last time. Because the only reason it has been put forward is that a politician has said something during a debate and we must take it back. I have to admit, I think it's a little poor. However, when we were going to discuss this proposal again, we went in and discussed the situation of the banking union now, in relation to the reality we are facing, after a year when we have seen some big, big bank scandals in Europe with some banks that have not been properly controlled nationally, some banks that are operating across national borders. And I must admit that I am beginning to say that the banking union looks like a better and better idea. As I recall, we said last time that we were not at all opposed to a referendum. We waited for this investigation from the government. We still think that this study should be ready before a referendum is held. I understand from the proposal that this indicative referendum is a little something to take right away. It's kind of unclear when you want it. And these are some of the questions to which we certainly need answers before we take a final position. We tend to say yes this time because it has become such an important question. And I actually think it would be very good to have a good, popular debate on how we control banks that are so large that we cannot do it nationally. Well, it's so nice that we have the European Union so we can do it together. Then, of course, we can also discuss: is the banking union that strong enough? Should it actually be strengthened? These are, after all, some of the issues that are being discussed around Europe, and this is a discussion that I actually think we should have at home. So we have a positive attitude to the proposal. Yes, let us finally come out and have the good public debate. I am sure that there are a lot of people who will actually support us getting proper control of the banks that are far too large. At the same time, we just have some questions about when it is that the vote should be. Because we are in fact inclined to have a proper debate before a referendum, and we think it is sensible to wait for the study that is under way on the part of the government before it is held.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192922	Thank you. The first brief remark is made by Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205192924	Thank you. I'd be happy to have a good debate. I think that the problem with the banking union is precisely that we are not doing anything to divide the big banks; we are not doing anything about money laundering. I would very much like to discuss this, but I think it is the case that if you are to have a good, popular debate, it is a good start to ask people, and that is exactly what we are proposing today: it is a referendum. I'm sorry, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is so negative that we are retabled. After all, I feel so laughed at having believed in Mrs Mette Frederiksen when she said: yes, I want a referendum. That was the reason for this proposal. The chairman of Denmark's largest party, at least in terms of mandates in the Folketing, says that she is in favour of a referendum, and then we think, of course, that it is obvious to have a majority in favour of it. Because, as we see it, parties can have opinions, be for or against the banking union, the question we are discussing today is: should we ask the people before they go along?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193035	Well, the questioner's disappointment with Mrs Mette Frederiksen must go directly with Mrs Mette Frederiksen. So what I wonder about is the fact that in the first line it says: "The Parliament is imposing on the current government...', which means that before an election to be held on 17 June at the latest, a referendum would have to be held. It is very soon, and I think there is far too little time for the process that must take place before a referendum. I would just point out that some quite sensible, skillful and thorough processes have been carried out elsewhere in the world around referendums, among others. in Ireland on abortion and equality legislation in relation to marriage. And what I'm really just asking for is that we grab other tools and take them down. That's why I just asked these questions openly about exactly what you want. If it is the present government, I think there is too little time and if it is then called upon to keep it, then I am, as I said, in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193130	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193132	In other words, the proposal is precisely that if the current government is going to join the banking union, which it has not said it will, before it holds parliamentary elections there is no indication that it will be obliged to do so if there is a majority in favour of this proposal. Otherwise, however, it is all about calling on a future government to issue a referendum, and that is something we clearly can do. The more parties supporting it, the harder it will be for a government to avoid holding such a referendum. So I would just like to call on the alternative to consider whether it was not appropriate to have a referendum on this issue. Well, we have been standing shoulder to shoulder in the past calling for a referendum, for example on the EU-Canada free trade agreement, and I think it would be good if the alternative and the Enhedslist could also stand together on this issue and say that this is something that requires a proper public debate and where the Danes should be allowed to be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193230	I really hope that the questioner, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, actually listened to what I said. I say that we are very positive about this. I had some questions about the way it is formulated here. Again, I would say that I am not one who gets scared when you say referendum. I think that referendums can be a very sensible and good tool. I am also just appealing for us to understand that direct democracy is not the only way of involving ourselves. We can create an inclusive and participatory democracy in many ways, and I think we should learn from all the countries that are already experimenting with it instead of just taking the simple version, which is the referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193308	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. And the next rapporteur on the list of speakers who is present is Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193319	Thank you. The proposal here is a motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten, which instructs the government to hold an indicative referendum prior to possible accession to the EU banking union. It is, of course, a proposal which is exactly the same as what was discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly less than a year ago, on 22 May 2018. At that time, the Conservative People's Party could not support the proposal, and neither can we today. We feel that, if we are talking about the surrender of sovereignty, we must, of course, have a referendum. Back in 2015, the Ministry of Justice made an assessment of the importance of joining a banking union and whether it would mean that there was a surrender of sovereignty and it is the clear assessment that there is no surrender of sovereignty. It is a tradition that we have in Denmark that we hold a referendum on the European Union when it comes to the surrender of sovereignty, and that is not the case here. We do not intend to change that from the Conservative People's Party. We respect the division of labour in the Constitution and, of course, we take a referendum when it comes to doing so. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, and as the Minister also mentioned, it is still a relatively hypothetical basis to discuss this here, in that it is still unresolved what exactly this is going to mean. We are also as a party unanswered as to whether or not we will support Denmark's accession to the banking union. With these comments, I would like to say that we do not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193506	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193512	Conservatives are also unanswered, at least on paper. Could Mr. Anders Johansson does not point out whether he agrees with the Prime Minister that there is more and more evidence that it would be wise to join the Banking Union? Is Mr. Anders Johansson agrees with the Prime Minister, or is Mr. Anders Johansson doesn't agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193545	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we as a party are not clear as to whether or not we support it. And that is why I cannot really stand here and comment on whether there are some things that the Prime Minister knows which make him think that it is more likely to be joined. We have not had that discussion and, in fact, it is waiting for these conclusions to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193615	I find it strange that as a party one cannot even come up with such a rudimentary understanding of whether one tends to be a supporter of something or is opposed to something. In other words, it is usually the case in the European Union that we have such an idea of the direction in which we want to go. And here it appears that Mr. Anders Johansson apparently believes that one can almost flip a coin over what the Conservative People's Party's position should be on this issue. Well, sir. Anders Johansson doesn't tell the wondering Conservative chooses to the extent that someone might sit out behind the screens... whether the Conservatives like that tend in one direction or another?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193658	No, I cannot, of course, because we have just not taken a position on this and we do not know the conclusions. So I think it is quite appropriate to say that we are awaiting the conclusions of the work being done. There is, of course, a working group which is precisely assessing the advantages and disadvantages in relation to whether Denmark should join or not. I think it would be a little strange if we were to stand here in advance and say that whatever that working group is going to do, we have made a decision. Of course, we are assessing our position in the light of the serious work currently under way. There are some fundamental things that the Minister also mentioned about the Danish mortgage system. It must, of course, be dealt with properly. This is something that is really important for the Danish economy, and it is also important for the Conservative People's Party, where we are watching over, for example. The landowners. So, of course, we have to wait for the conclusions of that working group before we take a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193746	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we have come to the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205193805	I'd like to admit that I've been naive. When Mette Frederiksen was asked on live television in the party leader's debate during the Danish Parliament's EU hearing on 4 November whether Denmark's accession to the banking union should be a referendum, the answer from the Social Democratic President was clear: yes, I think it should. So not a perhaps, not a 'no', but a clear 'yes' to the Danes who sat and watched this television-transmitted party leader debate, which should focus on what the parties think about the European Union. But apparently that wasn't right. When the Socialist Party chairman says to the public that she wants a referendum, we obviously cannot believe her. That is clear after today's debate. And I'd like to say to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen and the Social Democratic Party: It is not an excuse to run from what is said to the Danes that some others have done the same. In other words, saying one thing and doing the exact opposite must be accountable for. I have to say that I am deeply astonished that we can have a Social Democratic party chairman who three months ago on live television and then with great headlines in the media proclaimed that now we were in favour of a referendum on a banking union, and then we have to see today that we are doing exactly the opposite. So, in the Enhedslisten, we have fought for a referendum if there is a majority wishing to join Denmark in the EU's banking union. We have proposed this, but it has been rejected, among other things. of the Social Democratic Party. However, when the Socialist President clearly announces what she did during the public hearing, then we believed what she said. It was a mistake. I think there are many voters who have believed that Mette Frederiksen would have a referendum when she says that she wants a referendum when she says 'yes'. She didn't say maybe she said yes to the reporter's question. But it's not like that. You say one and you vote another. I find it disappointing. I think it's really, really disappointing. On behalf of Enhedslisten, however, I can promise that we will not run from our promise to the Danes. We will fight for the people to be asked if a majority in the Folketing will decide that Denmark will join the EU's banking union after the forthcoming parliamentary elections. The EU's banking union is not just a small thing. According to the European Commission itself, the EU's banking union is the largest project that has been created since the euro. The decision on whether to join the EU banking union can have huge national and economic consequences for Denmark. In concrete terms, this will mean that the decision to save or close a Danish bank in the future in a possible future financial crisis will not be taken here in Parliament. No, the decision will have been moved to Brussels, more specifically to the bureaucrats, i.e. the non-elected governors of the national central banks, who form the Board of Governors of the European Central Bank. Denmark does not even have a seat at the table here. On the other hand, the former Goldman Sachs-speculant Mario Draghi sits at the end of the table. That's right, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has said that a small cat door was negotiated which says that Denmark has the right not to follow the decision of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank that Danske Bank, for example, should be saved or must be wound up and closed down. But if you do not follow the decision of the European Central Bank, you will be thrown out of the banking union. That's what it says in black and white. That is to say, if you try to imagine that you have a situation where Europe's banks are in an extreme financial crisis, and in that situation you have to sit here in Parliament and decide that now you want to be thrown out on the hands and feet of the European Central Bank's Governing Council and of the banking union. When the Czech Parliament dealt with that possibility, they came to the conclusion in the expert study they carried out that it was not a real possibility. It's not a real choice you have. In other words, if you are in such a situation where there is a huge financial crisis, it is not a realistic choice to choose to be thrown out on your hands and feet. For this reason, not a single noneuro country has joined the banking But the Danish Prime Minister tends to do so, and funny enough the decision has been made, whether it should be done with the government's spectacles, after the forthcoming parliamentary elections, after the forthcoming EU parliamentary elections. I find that worrying. I think that something as big as this is something that the Danes should be allowed to take a position on, and that is what is best done in a referendum. In terms of content, I also think it is important to look at what is really at stake. With the banking union, we do not avoid new financial crises, but democratic power over what needs to be done, whether banks should be saved or not saved, removed from elected politicians and given to the bureaucrats in Brussels, where there is not a single Dane sitting around the table. The reality is that this is just one of the centralisation initiatives we are seeing from the European Commission at the moment: there is increased militarisation; there is discussion of the creation of a genuine EU army; there are direct EU taxes; there is a stronger in EU governance of Member States' economies; there is the possibility of determining tax, labour market and foreign policy in Denmark; a strengthened Fortress Europe; the inclusion of the financial pact in EU legislation itself, as well as a significantly larger EU budget, where Denmark has to pay significantly more than we are doing today. These are just some of the proposals that we are currently at the drawing board or are about to be implemented in the European Union. Developments are moving very fast, and time and again we see that the EU summit and unfortunately also changing Danish governments fail to ask the people. I think that should stop. I think that we should stop sneaking more power into the European Union and, in concrete terms, as we are discussing today, more power into the European Union about the banking union through the back door when both a parliamentary election and an EU parliamentary election have been decided. I think the Danes deserve to be asked.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194616	Thank you. There are two brief comments. One of them's from sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194620	I am still a little confused about this with the time period, as I also said when I was on the platform. I understand that you have to be asked before a parliamentary election. The European Parliament elections have less to do with it. But does the Enhedslisten believe that a referendum will have to be held before a forthcoming parliamentary elections, that is, by 17 June at the latest?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194649	No, Enhedslisten doesn't think so. As it says, we are talking about a possible Danish endorsement, and when we say as we do, it is because we are wearing belts and belts and thus saying that should it be the case that the current Danish government decides by 17 June that Denmark should join the banking union, then a referendum should be held. Of course, this is far too short a time to have a proper democratic debate, so it is by no means something we are calling for, but we are just concerned that we should once again choose to do great things in the European Union without asking the Danes. The main objective of this proposal is to look at what will be done after the autumn of 2019 when this statement comes, i.e. whether there will be a referendum, if the majority of the Danish Parliament decides that Denmark will join the banking union or not. If you support this proposal, then the government is required to call on the future government to hold such a referendum, and I very much hope that the alternative will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194758	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194759	I think I said this quite clearly when I myself was up and giving my rapporteur's speech. But there is one thing that also makes me a little curious, and it is this that we must have a referendum if there is a majority in the Folketing wishing to join the banking union. If you really want to involve the citizens in the decision on the banking union, does the Enhedslisten not really believe that the most consistent thing would be for the referendum to be held automatically once the statement on what this will mean? So, whatever there is a majority in the Folketing or not, will you ask the citizens, or is it only when you are against the decision that has been taken? I just need to understand it completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194835-2	In other words, it is a fundamental democratic attitude that we have towards it, namely that if there is a majority in the Folketing for it, then you ask the people. If all the parties or a majority of the parties in the Folketing agree that a referendum will be held no matter what, then I think we will certainly support it. But it is clear that we think this is a really stupid idea, and we would much rather discuss how to divide the banks and avoid future financial crises. We think this is a much more relevant debate. We have shouted and shouted about this, and we have put forward proposals on how to do it, and we hope to be able to have many more discussions on this. One should take a majority to make this very violent decision, then a minimum must be that one can agree to hold a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194923	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205194924	Thank you. It can be a little difficult to understand Enhedslisten. So it is said that it is terrible that there are no Danes sitting at the table at the European Central Bank, but that is because we are not in the euro. I do not think that we should be. Then you talk about that it's a big problem if we get kicked out of the banking union I thought that Enhedslisten didn't want us to get into the banking union, so I don't quite understand the problem that we might have to get kicked out. But this whole debate is all about Enhedslisten wanting to tease the Social Democratic Party, and I'd like to help because it's cheerful. That is why I would like to ask: since the Enhedslisten is so deeply puzzled that you can have a Social Democratic party chairman who promises one and then does the exact opposite, can the Enhedslisten not have the great influence on who the Social Democratic Party elects as president, but you can influence who will be the country's next prime minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195024	The Enhedslisten is going to negotiate with a future government, and it is clear that we would prefer that a future government was led by us and was a progressive government, but we must look at what is going on in terms of mandates afterwards and then take the debate from there. But for what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says about the banking union and about Enhedslisten being worried about Denmark being thrown out, I would say that this is about the discussion about sovereignty. In the statement that came when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice considers that there is no question of surrender of sovereignty if Denmark joins the banking union because one has a sovereign choice, since one can refuse to obey with the consequence that one is thrown out of the banking union. That is where I say: it is not a real, sovereign choice. In the midst of an international financial crisis, it is not a real, sovereign choice to be thrown out on the tail and elbows of the banking union.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195129	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195130	So, I asked a relatively clear, simple, simple and clear question, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen may not have heard: Does Enhedslisten think that you should have a prime minister in Denmark that you cannot trust?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195146	In other words, the Enhedslisten has seen that the Social Democrats have repeatedly said one thing and done another, and that is also why we have said quite clearly that we would like to see a progressive government coming, which Mrs Pernille Skipper is prepared to take the lead. That is what we would like to see, and that is what we are going to vote on. Then we will have to see what the outcome will be, and then we will of course negotiate as much influence as possible thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195214	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks - unless someone wishes to speak in another round. No one else wants that, and no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195259	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195306	Thank you. As you know, it is another motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten which must be dealt with first. That is the motion for a resolution. B 73, which concerns the introduction of a recycling criterion in the Procurement Act. In the motion for a resolution, the Government is required to amend the Procurement Act so that a procuring entity • i.e. the state, the municipality or a region, as long as we have them • using the award criterion best price-quality ratio, which is thus one of the criteria included in a tender procedure, can provide that the potential for recycling must also be taken into account. If the contracting entity does not use that option, the contracting entity shall indicate why the contracting entity does not do so. This is what is called a follow-up or explanation principle; the contracting entity must either include the recycling potential in the supply or explain why it is not included in the supply. The Procurement Act already allows recycling to be included as a criterion for the award of a public contract. Contracting entities can therefore already give priority to recycling. The motion for a resolution calls for a follow-up or explanation principle so that contracting entities have to explain themselves if they do not compete for recyclability. That is what is new in the motion for a resolution. This obliges contracting entities to consider whether to compete on recycling potential. This may lead to more competition than is currently the case, as it is already possible to allow suppliers to compete on who is best to recycle. On the other hand, the proposal will counter the objective of reducing the administrative costs of tendering, because an explanation must be provided if recycling is not included as one of the things that is being competed for. In the end, high procurement costs provide an incentive to keep tasks rather than let them be exposed to competition and to carry them out if it is too difficult to make tenders. And it is clear that, if they have to make these explanations, it will of course also entail additional costs for the public sector. I understand that we are not talking about high costs, but we are probably not talking about big gains in the proposal either. We believe that, in this respect, the procurement law is as it should be, because there is a possibility of prioritising recycling in public procurement, but there is no obligation to follow or explain the principle. Then I would like to mention that, at the end of 2018, we launched a strategy for the circular economy, which contains a number of other and, in our view, more effective ways of achieving a higher level of recycling. After all, it is not because we do not agree that recycling is important. That's it. But, for example, in order to strengthen a number of partnerships for sustainable procurement, we have proposed more equal conditions in the waste market, so that it will be easier also to build business that deals with recycling, in other words to get some private people started taking the lead and developing solutions that can ensure more recycling and that a voluntary sustainability class is developed in the building regulations. So to sum up: We believe that there will be a rather small gain by requiring all public entities to include recycling as a criterion or explain why they do not. We believe that this is administratively cumbersome and bureaucratic and that there are better ways of promoting recycling, which we certainly believe is an important agenda. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195759	Thank you to the Minister for Business. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195804	Thank you. I do not think I really heard about the amount there, that is to say to write in a tender document that it wanted re-use to be concluded whether that sentence could be quite heavy administrative. This proposal has come on the table of the Danish Parliament, because there are a number of actors in the building sector who have been involved in the process of building and promoting Circle House in Aarhus. And there has been a process, that is to say, 40 players, who have put themselves together and looked at what the barriers are in relation to getting more reuse in the building. Then they have come to a number of parties in the Folketing with three bills and have asked if we would promote this. Then Enhedslisten has taken two of them and turned them into motions for resolutions, and we will then put them forward here this week. This is one of those where you have the opportunity to weigh in your tender, that you would like to see offers where it is possible to recycle building parts. I think that is very sympathetic. It's not something that Enhedslisten has devised. It is, in fact, some actors in the construction industry who have brought it to us. I think we should listen to the sector, which wants to promote more recycling.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195914	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195915	I have also tried in the past to get sympathetic suggestions that did not come from the Enhedslisten, so it may well be. It is an excellent way to develop policy, to talk to wise people who have some proposals, and then to take a position on them. However, the arguments I put forward before do not seem to upset why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205195942	Well, then, the debate here will be exciting, i.e. whether we come to the conclusion that the minority government is in the minority. I look forward to clarifying this through the debate. But I think that we really should listen to the actors in the construction industry, since there are 40 companies that sit down and look at what the barriers really are. And then they come to the conclusion that this could be what needs to be changed. I think the Minister should be more sensitive to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200006	I am very sensitive and I think there are some arguments against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200015	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur to have the chance to use the platform is Mrs Karin Gaardsted from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200026	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for tabling the motion for a resolution on the introduction of a recycling criterion in the procurement law. There are many of us who are concerned that recycling has to fill more than it does today. We are on our way, but there is still a long way to go, so I predict that it will be a field of action for a number of future governments both in Denmark and in other countries. The problem is also being addressed in the Nordic Council, where both the Committee on Industry and the Committee on the Environment is concerned about how we can promote the manufacture of building materials prepared for use in other ways, when they are no longer required to fulfil the task for which they were first created. The circular economy is coming in everywhere, and good for it. With its proposal, the Enhedslisten wants to make it compulsory to compete on recycling potential in all tenders. The idea is good and we also support the fact that more intensive work will be done to strengthen recycling, but we need to do it intelligently and without causing too much bureaucracy. Therefore, in the Social Democratic Green Paper on nature and the environment, energy and climate, we have emphasised that we will examine the possibilities of updating the building regulations so that it promotes sustainable construction and creates less waste and more recycling in the building industry, just as we stress that it is important to streamline the rules for collecting waste from the country's 98 municipalities. That is why the Social Democrats also recognise the good intention of this motion for a resolution. There are in many ways the same thoughts that we also have. However, we are also concerned about whether this should be exactly the way in which Enhedslisten proposes to do so, because a change of rules in the procurement law may also result in more bureaucracy and a little paperwork. And as the most important appeal, we must remember that the procurement law applies only to public buildings, not to private ones, and that excludes a large number, indeed, of construction from the good ideas contained in the motion for a resolution. Therefore, instead of clarifying how we can promote the recycling tank in the construction industry and in the companies producing for the construction industry. I hope the Enhedslisten will participate in that dialogue. So the Social Democrats support the intention, but we cannot support the motion for a resolution for these reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200258	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200302	Yes, but now the proposal is formulated in such a way that it can mean that it does not say that all construction must compete on whether it can be recycled. I know this dialogue has been there. The construction industry has come to a number of parties in the Folketing and has said: we have three proposals that we would like to see promoted. This is then one of those that we have reworded to a resolution. And I really think that this is a question of breaking down some barriers, so we come to the conclusion that players can better plan that some construction can be built in a way, so that building elements, for example. can be reused instead of smashing it all up when you've had a building for 100 years. So this is such a relatively small proposal that builders who want to build sustainablely want to promote. I am actually wondering why the Social Democrats do not want to take part in this, because it is really just a small step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200405	I also believe that I have said that I recognise the problem and that there is also a great deal of good that can be done. The rapporteur says that this is not something to be done, but my request is precisely that it should include more Why settle that it is only in public buildings that we have to do these things? So I am actually going to go further than what Enhedslisten is doing, and that is the dialogue that I would like to put up with until we take it here afterwards. However, in the light of what has been said here, we cannot support the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200452	Thank you, Mrs. Karin Gaardsted, and welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200503	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to sign the motion for a resolution. It is an excellent debate to have in the Folketing to discuss recycling criteria and, in general, circular economy where it makes sense, and it does, of course, in relation to public building, for example. That is one of the reasons for the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Enhedslisten. In the Danish People's Party, we are in line with the social democratic approach to the fact that we welcome the initiative in this way. We are also in favour of increasing access to recycling opportunities, but in relation to the specific resolution we in the Danish People's Party believe that when we say, for example, that you can get the contracting entity to decide whether to compete on these recycling potentials, that sounds reasonable in itself. At the same time, however, Enhedslisten also describes that if you opt out of this option in your tender, the contracting entity must describe carefully how and why the reason is that you do not want to take advantage of this particular criterion. There we in the Danish People's Party think that it might seem a little rough to start saying that all the different elements that you choose from in a tendering round, you should then begin to describe at the bottom of the tender documentation why you have chosen from in relation to a given tender. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this would be unnecessarily bureaucratic. It is also something that will not be rational in relation to administrative burdens and everything else. We are well aware in the Danish People's Party that there are many, including municipalities, who are interested in considering recycling principles in public buildings. For example, my own home municipality, the municipality of Hedensted, has chosen it in relation to a new technical administration to be built in Tørring, where I live, where it has also been chosen to say that there must be a certain percentage of the construction that is thought about in relation to the recycling of masonry and woodwork and tiles, and what else can be used for. So this is something that I think very many municipalities actually take up as a given opportunity to welcome just the circular part of it. But in the proposal here we think it is becoming more unfavorable because it is a requirement that one should justify why yours and why that is. So, on this basis, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. However, we do not object to thinking about the circular economy and the use of resources, as it could also be called. At least it did when I was young. It was just called resource utilisation. This can easily be thought into in the context of the review which we will have to have of the procurement law shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200824	You're welcome, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. I am of the opinion that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen is the next rapporteur from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205200839	So, the Danish Liberal Party in all matters, if I may. Third Vice-President It was because we had another name on the rapporteur's list. ) I get it. We are now discussing a proposal tabled by Enhedslisten, De Red-Green. The aim of the proposal is to promote and stimulate the recycling of construction and demolition waste. It proposes the proposers so that we can implement a principle of the Procurement Act, a principle that must oblige contracting entities to decide whether it is appropriate to compete on the recycling potential and, if not, the contracting entity must explain why. In the Left, we firmly believe that the environment-friendly agenda is important. That is also why we are making an effort to ensure a number of improvements in this area. In November 2018, the government introduced a strategy for the circular economy, and the intention is to develop a higher level of recycling. The measures are among others: strengthening a number of sustainable procurement partnerships, creating a more equal environment in the waste market and, finally, developing a voluntary sustainability class in the building regulations. We in the Left believe that this strategy is far more effective than the proposal we are discussing here today. In addition, we consider that the proposal will not further strengthen the environment. In addition, it is already possible under the Procurement Act to take special account, inter alia, of: recycling, and it is therefore doubtful whether the proposal will bring new opportunities. In addition, the proposal will go against the work being done by the Left to reduce the administrative costs of public procurement entities. If the costs are too high, it may mean that, as a contracting entity, public procurement is withdrawn instead of competition, and I, as a Liberal, cannot support such a case which risks harming Danish industry in this way. Good results in Danish Business will continuously benefit our growth and thus also our green transformation, and on that basis I must unfortunately disappoint Enhedslisten with the fact that the Left votes against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201045	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201055	Thank you. The aim of this proposal is to recycle and reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste. This is an objective with which I fully agree, because we also want it in the Liberal alliance, which is in line with the so-called waste hierarchy of the European Union and the government's initiatives in this area. The proposal shall allow contracting entities to add recycling potential as a competitive parameter to the tender dossier. I think that's a good idea too. And that is why I am glad that this is already an opportunity today. However, the proposal also implies that contracting entities should be required either to use recycling potential as a competitive parameter or to explain why they do not. And I think that's a bad idea. There is plenty to document and record in advance in relation to the things you do. If you then also have to register the things you do not do and explain why you do not do so, even though there may be obvious reasons for it, then there will be even more bureaucracy. In the Liberal Alliance, we are working to reduce administrative burdens, but this proposal will create more administrative burdens without creating incentives for better recycling of construction and demolition waste. The so-called follow-up or explanation principle does not create an incentive to do something active, but only obliges us to explain why recycling may not be included as a competitive parameter. And since the opportunity is already available today, I doubt how many more will put it in the tender documentation. However, by making procurement more expensive and more difficult, I would be afraid that, in the end, the municipalities might be able to take home what they call 'the tasks', thereby reducing competition, and this could lead to both lower quality and higher prices, and that is no good. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201303	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Is there any rapporteur for the alternative? There isn't. And there is no rapporteur for the Radical Left either. Then I welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201329	The alternative rapporteur has asked me to inform you that the alternative, like the SF, can support the resolution. We in the SF think this is a very good proposal. Clearly, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned, there have also been experts on this issue. We think, contrary to what other rapporteurs have more than suggested, that this is well thought out. Account has also been taken of cases where it may not make sense. We need a lot more recycled. In the comments to the proposal, the Enhedslisten also writes how many places we have actually committed ourselves to it, both in relation to the initiatives that the Danish Government has put into the sea, but also in EU legislation there we have to say that there is also a long way to go, and that is nice, in terms of ensuring that we promote the circular economy, that we promote recycling. Unlike the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur and also what I heard the Minister say, we do not see that a follow-up and explanation principle or the principle of dealing with precisely the recycling rate is particularly bureaucratic. We already have some rules in the Procurement Act, which must take account of other elements: price, quality, etc. After all, it is up to those who want the job to explain why their product is better in terms of recycling. Now comes the proposal, while at the same time we have to evaluate the procurement law in the coming months... at least before the end of the year... and normally I would say that we should bring those discussions together in one. But I see no reason not to be able to support the Enhedslisten's proposal here. And when we have to meet with the minister, either the current one or whoever comes after a election, that is clearly something we want to stress from the SF we get in. I think it is very good that the Enhedslisten in its comments on the proposal just mentions that the Procurement Directive is actually much broader than it sometimes gets mention of being in Denmark. A little too often people are going to say: 'Well, we must not do that because of the Procurement Directive'. In fact, the Procurement Directive makes room for a great deal of space, and I do not think it is right that, because we have amended our procurement law in a certain way, it should be an obstacle to changing it. So all in all, the SF supports the proposal. There will not be a majority in favour of it when we vote on it, we can see that, but we would certainly like to include the excellent proposal in the negotiations when we have to look again at the procurement law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201708	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and welcome to Mr. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201716	Thank you. The resolution here is tabled by the Enhedslisten and aims to oblige the government to submit a legislative proposal to allow a contracting entity to provide for competition in the recycling potential of a tender. We therefore agree that it is important that we get the highest level of recycling into our economy, and that is why we are very much in agreement with the intentions behind the proposal. However, the Procurement Act already allows recycling potential to be included as a criterion for the award of public contracts, and that is why we, on the conservative side, cannot support the fact that we are going to have to amend the part of the Procurement Act as proposed. The resolution will also impose an obligation on the contracting entity, and hence the public service providers, to explain if the recycling potential is not used in the supply. In our view, this would lead to additional public administration and also to the risk that it would be more difficult to send out tasks in public procurement, and thus, in the extreme, would mean that there would be fewer public procurement. In the Conservative People's Party, we certainly think it is important to work for a higher level of recycling, but we also need to focus on the total economy, for example. in the case of construction works. And then we disagree that it should be promoted through increased public administration. After all, the government has presented a strategy for the circular economy with 15 specific initiatives, including: Such a thing as strengthening the waste market and thus also increasing the incentive to recognise the recycling potential of public and private operators, and we think that is a very good way to go. So we cannot support the resolution, but we agree with the intentions behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201913	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. The last person to speak in this round is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205201930	As I previously revealed, this is a proposal that has been prepared by building experts who have dealt with the building called Circle House, which is being built in Aarhus and which hopefully will be completed in 2020. It is a visionary building where you think about sustainability from the start, also in the way that you have to be able to reuse building elements from that building. Those who have been close to that process • approx. 40 operators in the construction industry have looked at: What are the real barriers to achieving more recycling in the Danish building, including recycling, where you don't just think about it being crushed into pieces and used for roadfilling? It is, after all, sympathetic that the construction sector is involved. They have then delivered three proposals and have toured Christiansborg and have tried to lobby in the various parties. I know that, and we have the debate here today, which is a step on the way. I really think it is a little incredible that, when you have a proposal where you only add up to that, I actually think that when you are in a construction process and planning a building, it is very healthy to be forced to relate to some elements. It seems to me that, when we are now faced with the need to reduce our CO2 if we do not want to do so, we can formulate in our tender documents why we do not want to do so. But I think that the mere fact that we have to formulate it will mean that some people in their construction processes will say: well, yes, we must also take it in with us, because it makes sense to recycle more. Social democracy began with their interest in going one step further, and so is Enhedslisten. If it is the case that we can come up with a report that says that this should apply to all construction in Denmark, then we are completely open to it. The second possibility mentioned by the SF rapporteur, namely that there is a revision of the procurement law and that some of this could be brought in there, I think it is good to have in mind. Otherwise, of course, this is a proposal which I hope can be taken up by the drawer of an election where there may be a second majority, which will give priority to sustainable development and which will come to the conclusion that we need a CO2 This is not something we are just achieving as the first, especially with the concrete being used. But there are some perspectives in this, and I think it is really exciting that there are 40 actors in the construction industry who are very active about whether Circle House in Aarhus is something that might inspire the inclusion of the news that we will be discussing on Friday when discussing how we promote more recycling in general construction, in another resolution called B 74. I think it's a little too bad that you can't take this a little more positively when it's based in the construction industry. So it is not something that has arisen in a study circle in the Enhedslisten, but something that comes from the construction industry. So I hope for a more favourable treatment when we come to a similar proposal on Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205202323	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205202343	The debate is open and the Minister for Finance is the one to speak first if he wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205202403	Yeah, yeah, I had to get around Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen's broad shoulders. It's gonna take a while. I would like to start by drawing attention to the fact that Ørsted cancelled the sales process concerning Radius on 14 January 2019 because the government had to note that there was no longer political support for the divestment to take place within the terms of the now cancelled sales process. Therefore, there is, as a general rule, no current sales process for Radius. In the resolution we are debating today, the Enhedslisten puts out asking for the government to guarantee national security and consumer protection. With that requirement, Enhedslisten clearly indicates that the interests of national security and consumer protection are not already guaranteed today. It's not right. It's not right. The scaremongering campaigns on security of supply and national security which have influenced the debate on Radius are, in my view, misleading, not to say outright lying. I have explained several times that the area of electricity distribution is subject to strict sectoral regulation, which requires consumers to be confident that prices are not unduly high and security of supply is in order, which is also publicly supported by several different players with knowledge in this area. I have also explained that Radius will not be able to be resold to an owner who is unfit for public security and order. The government is on the way with a legislative measure that will allow the State to intervene against certain foreign investments which are problematic for reasons of public security and order. The State would have ensured by a sale that Radius' new owner would not be able to re-sell Radius until such legislation was in place. However, when we have to note that there are still myths that electricity consumers were not protected, I would like to take this opportunity to explain once again the quality of the regulation that is in force today. Electricity distribution is a monopoly activity and is therefore subject to economic regulation. The regulation is the same for all electricity distribution companies, regardless of their type of ownership. The core of the economic basis is that all electricity distribution companies are subject to a revenue framework and the revenue framework sets a ceiling on how much revenue the electricity distribution company can have in one year. Thus, the revenue framework also sets a ceiling on the prices paid by consumers to the electricity distribution company. Radius, which is owned by a commercial listed company, has historically exploited its ability to obtain the highest possible income in full. Therefore, it is wrong when some claim that a new owner of Radius could just have raised prices. If you look at the four largest consumers-owned electricity distribution companies in Denmark in the period 2011-2017, you will see that they also collect all the revenue that is possible under the regulation. Against this background, there is no evidence to suggest that consumers in Copenhagen would have lower prices if they were owned by a consumer-owned company. It has also been argued that a possible high selling price for Radius could lead to a new owner being given the opportunity to raise prices. I should therefore like to stress that the selling price of an electricity distribution company cannot in any way affect the revenue framework. It follows directly from the Electricity Act. It is also wrong when some argue that a commercial owner would have an interest in reducing investment and maintaining the electricity network and that a new owner would therefore have an interest in reducing security of supply. As I have already mentioned, the revenue framework provides electricity distribution companies with an economic incentive to invest in the electricity grid. Specifically, the electricity distribution companies receive a guaranteed return on their investments in the electricity network, which is set by the Supply Authority. For the current period, the rate of return has been set at 3.66 per cent. The stable, regulated returns mean that the electricity distribution sector is also very suitable for investments from e.g. pension funds. In addition to a guaranteed return on electricity distribution companies, the Supply Control Authority also sets specific targets for the quality of supply to be respected by the companies. If the targets are not met, the electricity distribution company will be financially sanctioned by the Supply Authority. Those who claim that the price will rise or that security of supply will deteriorate have not properly incorporated into the legislation, or it is an expression of incomprehensible mistrust of the supervisory authorities which have been set up in Denmark to supervise the sector. The discussion on whether Radius and the rest of the Danish electricity distribution sector should be subject to a certain type of ownership has nothing to do with consumer protection, security of supply or national security. All these considerations are handled. It must therefore only be an ideological discussion about whether one wants open markets and private companies or whether one wants a nationalisation of companies in Denmark of one kind or another. Ørsted's assessment is that Radius no longer fits in with Ørsted's strategy and that the proceeds for a sale of among others. Radius can be better used for investments in the company's green growth strategy. The government generally supports Ørsted's green growth strategy and therefore also supports Ørsted's desire to focus on green investments by selling Radius off. At the same time, before the sale process was initiated, it was important for the government to have political support from the conciliation circle behind the political agreement on the stock exchange listing of DONG Energy from 2015, even though the intended sale is not covered by the settlement. When the Conciliation Committee unanimously expressed its support, the sales process was launched in June 2018. The sales process should basically balance three considerations for the State. First, there was the consideration that Ørsted got the best possible price; a good price would ensure that as many resources as possible could be released for Ørsted's green investment strategy, and not least that the value of the state and thus the Danish taxpayers' investment in Ørsted was managed in the best possible way. The second consideration was that the sale was to be made to a suitable, responsible buyer in whom there was confidence. I cannot list the names of the specific tenderers left in the process, but all the participants in the conciliation circle know that this consideration was also greatly safeguarded. The third consideration was that the State should act credible and professionally as a majority shareholder in Ørsted, which meant that there was no discrimination between buyers in relation to e.g. nationality or type of ownership. Despite the fact that the sales process would have achieved a good balance between the three considerations, and despite the fact that the conciliation circle had unanimously expressed its support before the sale process started, the Social Democratic Party and then SF decided on 13 January 2019 to inform me that they had changed their position. Against this background, the sales process has now been cancelled. It remains my opinion that Radius should be separated from Ørsted, and that is precisely why the sales process was initiated in consultation with the conciliation circle. At the same time, however, I must state that the responsibility for Radius' continued presence in Ørsted is with those responsible for the cancellation of the process. I also maintain that it is not possible to cancel a process in order to start a new process immediately afterwards, where we saw, for example, a new one. sells to the non-highest bidder from the cancelled process. Firstly, it would involve a risk of a breach of relevant EU rules and, secondly, it would not be fair to the other participants in the sales process that was cancelled. Thirdly, it would be irresponsible to manage the investment of the Danish state and thus the Danish taxpayers if the best possible price were not to be obtained. I would remind you that these are the same EU rules that ensure fair conditions for Danish companies, including Ørsted and pension funds, when they invest abroad. It is investments that benefit Denmark's prosperity, Danish pension savers and the Danish Treasury, and which in Ørsted's case contribute to the green transition. These are rules on which Denmark, in the light of our status as a small and open economy, is deeply dependent and on which we expect other countries to comply, including investment in infrastructure. If the government hypothetically pursued the Enhedslisten's proposal to sell only to one selected consumer-owned buyer, there would be a real risk that the European Commission would open infringement proceedings or State aid proceedings against the Danish State. Of course, the government will not be involved in this. Against this background, I must also call on the conciliation parties not to make unrealistic demands on who can own Radius, and hence on the framework for a possible new sales process. One is the political desires; another is what is done within the framework of the law. The framework for State ownership of Ørsted is, in the view of the government, set out in the political agreement behind the stock exchange listing of DONG Energy from September 2015. In that agreement, the conciliation circle took a position and clarified the bindings that should be on Ørsted. The conciliation group chose not to impose binding obligations on Ørsted in relation to their ownership of electricity distribution, nor are other electricity distribution companies in Denmark subject to ownership requirements. It was also the assumptions underlying the listing of DONG Energy. The government can and it is hardly a surprise that it does not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203334	Thank you, Minister. There are three inscribed short remarks for the moment, and the first is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203343	You can hear that the Minister is bitter about this, and it hasn't looked very pretty either. I understand that you are bitter about this, but fortunately the result is, as the vast majority of the Danes wish, so far. The minister is very concerned about the fact that Radius is not part of Ørsted's core business, and that is certainly true. And there I remember that two or three years ago, when Ørsted, when DONG, was to be listed on the stock exchange, I stood up on the platform where the minister is now standing and asked why on earth a million Zealandic electricity customers were going to join that company. So, Minister, the question is: if it is so awful to have Radius as part of Ørsted, and if it is not part of the core business, why was it so busy getting Radius over rather than separating it from, as you say. Did with the gas grid? It is a little strange to have to have criticism here three years later, in order not to understand that it is not part of Ørsted's core business, when it was actually we who at that time warned against taking Radius to Ørsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203455	A lot has happened to Ørsted from the time DONG Energy was launched and then until now. Among other things: There has been a major change of strategy in terms of what is actually their core task, and therefore they are increasingly moving away from being a producer of e.g. heat in Denmark to be more at the forefront of the transition to green energy primarily using sea winds around the world. They have then bought an additional leg in the form of buying land winds in the United States. It is the change in their strategy that makes them today have the experience that Radius is not part of their core task. In 2015, where they had an approach to being a more professionally broad company, Ørsted is today a professionally narrow company, but with a great depth and enormous knowledge, and they are the world leader in the development of offshore wind turbine projects. Therefore, it is a different strategy that Ørsted has today than the DONG Energy that was listed in 2015 had.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203559	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203601	Then I think we should go back and look at what was said at the time during the rapporteur's speech, because there was exactly the same argument: Ørsted was going to go into the big world and bet on sea winds. This is probably more about Radius being someone I think there were some who called it a golden faucet. It's a safe cash flow year after year, 550 million. kr. out of the pockets of electricity consumption here in Copenhagen and into the pocket of Ørsted. But let it go and let me ask you another question. The Minister says that there is no difference between consumer-owned companies and other companies, because they all go to the revenue framework. Can the Minister confirm that in a consumer-owned company there is, after all, the difference that it is the consumer who decides, and that means that consumers can choose whether they want that return and, moreover, whether the money should be returned to consumers themselves or to other activities for the benefit of consumers, in other words, a quite different situation than if it is a asset manager or a fund that is the owner?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203655	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203656	No, it's kind of the same mechanism. In other words, if it is a limited liability company, it is the shareholders who can choose what the money is to be used for. If you took a completely hypothetical theoretical situation, namely that SEAS-NVE had bid and had been the highest bidder at Radius, then it would have been the electricity consumers at Zealand who had to decide what electricity consumers in Copenhagen would have to pay, and whether it would have to go as far as the revenue framework or subside. So it would not be the consumers in Copenhagen who made the decision, but the consumers in Zealand who made the decision for consumers in Copenhagen within the framework of the legislation. That is why it is important, and that is what is at the heart of this debate, that there is a regulatory framework for how high revenue may be, regardless of who owns it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203741	The next short remark is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203745	It is therefore quite different if it was a consumer-owned cooperative that was the buyer, because then it would be up to the company whether the new electricity consumers should also be turned into shareholders. That is a possibility. The profits that would be made from the consumer-owned cooperative could, for example, be used, as SEAS-NVE does, to roll out fibres to the shareholders. This could be used to create electricity infrastructure for electric cars in Denmark, which could be used to invest in renewable energy. That's what's happening out there in the real world. If Radius were to be sold to a fund instead, we would not be able to control it, because then the profits would be pulled out of Denmark and perhaps no tax would be paid on that profit at all. So there is, in fact, a significant difference between whether we have a network company for a million consumers in the Copenhagen area, which is owned by a cooperative or whether we have a network company owned by a capital fund. I would like to know whether the Minister does not see that there is in fact the marked difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203844	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205203846	If it was now owned by a Danish pension fund, it could provide for better pensions for their members, for primary school teachers, for nurses. As long as Danish pension funds had indicated that they were interested in investing in Danish energy infrastructure, this would mean that their members would then have the opportunity to get a better pension. It is clear that it could also be another investor who would bid; it could be foreign pension funds who would offer a piece of Danish infrastructure. But is this a problem in a world where Danish pension funds invest massively abroad? And because we have an open opportunity to invest across borders, have had the opportunity to place investments, Danish pensioners are much better equipped now and have a much stronger economy than if we had a closed, nationalist approach to it, where countries would keep other investors out, so Danish pension funds would not have the opportunity to invest freely in other countries. The fact is that Enhedslisten is opposed to an open economy where you can invest across borders if you are talking about infrastructure and energy companies, while I am in favour of allowing an open investment in this area too, so that Danish companies can invest in energy infrastructure in other countries, both in the production and in the distribution of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204005	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204008	It is certainly true that the revenue framework is now being used to the full in the network companies, but that is because, among other things, we do not have confidence in the political level because we are afraid that there might be retroactive legislation. If you look at this historically, then there are network companies that have not used the revenue framework and have run low tariffs because it benefited the local population. There are companies that have had activities on which they have expanded because, overall, they have had a healthy economy in all the things they did. And that is where the consumer-owned cooperatives differ from the pension funds that the Minister is so fond of, because pension funds, whether they are Danish or foreign, will have as much profit as possible, and so they are not in anything that serves the energy sector, but in something that serves one's interest in getting a return in the future. So I think there's a significant difference between who owns these energy companies and grid companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204103	In fact, I do not agree that pension funds are targeting as much profit as possible. I mean, they're looking for as much sustainable profit as possible. And precisely because they also invest in sustainability, their interest in investing in Danish energy infrastructure is quite vital. I find it strange that one does not want an opportunity for Danish pension funds to also be co-owners of Danish energy infrastructure. The idea that it should be customers at Zealand who will own and earn on the customers in Copenhagen, I can see should not be more right or fine than that pension fund members, among others. Some people living in Copenhagen should be co-owners of their own infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204141	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204145	Now I must not say who was in the last bidding round, but one can wonder whether what has been reported in the press was correct or not. The minister criticises Enhedslisten for not advocating an open economy, but whose open economy is about a capital fund that may be Goldman Sachs or other • must own Danish infrastructure, so I think it is stretching it a little. That is why I would like the Minister to answer whether it is not true that the legislation that the government was about to adopt, that hostile states, for example. could not own critical Danish infrastructure, of course would not cover up the fact that an owner could not re-sell to a capital fund, i.e. that such bonds are not included in the bill that the government would make. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204242	The bill that the government will make is a proposal that allows us to base ourselves on a national interest and stop sales that are not in line with Danish national or security interests. That does not mean that we can stop any sales to a fund, no, but in this particular case I do not think I am breaking any confidentiality by saying that there were neither state funds nor what is commonly referred to as capital funds in the last bidding rounds. There were both Danish and international bidders, yes. There was both industrial, and you could say pension funds. There were various combinations, but no one did comply with the rules we had set up from the outset, which means that companies that had been involved in money laundering or tax evasion had been sorted out along the way; that companies that did not live up to our concern to be independent of national interests, i.e. state funds and others, were sorted out along the way. So it was an exquisite crowd of biders that were left in the end, according to my assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204347	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204349	The legislative proposal that is coming comes, after all, because there is an EU discussion about what is happening if hostile states can enter and sit on critical infrastructure, and I think that is very fine. But the Minister answered my question; if, after a few years of ownership of Radius, that is hypothetically, a European country's pension fund received a really good price from Goldman Sachs, for example, then there are no bonds; then you could sell it on. And if you just take a country • is a German pension fund, then you have an obligation to German pension customers, and that is why you will of course also make sure that you get the profit you could get by reselling it. So that is the point: there are no constraints in relation to the fact that, somewhere in a European country, a pension company could have sold it to a fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204450	I hope that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen was not disappointed that I answered the question. It almost sounded like it. The core here isn't who owns it. The core is how consumers are protected. And consumers are protected in exactly the same way, whether it is a Danish or a foreign pension fund, whether it is a consumer-owned company, whether it is Ørsted or another owner of Radius. They are protected by the fact that we have some revenue framework in the legislation, as we are in this Chamber who take responsibility for setting the level, that is to say, how much you have to charge along the way. Therefore, consumers in Copenhagen are protected, regardless of who is the current and future owners of Radius.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204533	Thank you, Minister. There are no more short comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204540	Thank you. With this proposal, the proposers want the Folketing to require the government to sell Radius to a consumer-owned company, and if there is no suitable buyer in the form of a consumer-owned company, the government is required to ensure that the independent public company Energinet buys Radius. The position of social democracy on the issue of the sale of critical infrastructure is well known. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the Community should have an influence on critical infrastructure through either consumer owned or publicly owned companies. In cases where public limited companies need capital, the basic principle of social democracy is that the majority of shares are held in state hands in a structure in which the public interest is more than 50%. As long as these principles are respected, the position of the Social Democratic Party is that we can agree to that extent with parts of the intention of the motion for a resolution, that is to say that critical infrastructure must be maintained in the hands of the Community and that this can be ensured through sales to a consumer-owned company, as the proposers write. However, we do not believe that it is in line with our principles to impose on the seller that a sale of Radius should be for a particular independent public enterprise, and for that reason the Social Democrats do not support the resolution as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204718	There is one more brief remark. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204725	To the end, I would like to say that it is now Energy Network that stands for, among other things. Our gas network and the transmission network, that is, from the power mains, so I have little difficulty in seeing what other public authority it would be. But perhaps the rapporteur can answer that question. Then I have another question in relation to the principles of social democracy about consumer ownership. When you call for consumer ownership, is it to be understood that it is the consumers in the area in question who are the owners? Because that is what the proposal is proposing here. I think the Minister for Finance had got it a little wrong when he said that it would then be the consumers out on Zealand who would own the net here in Copenhagen. What this proposal proposes is, of course, that, as in the rest of the country, it is the consumers in the network area who are the shareholders and thus the owners of the network. I just need to understand the socialist principle in relation to consumer ownership, i.e. whether there is the same principle for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204831	In other words, the definition of the consumer-owned company structure can be relatively broad, and one can easily imagine a company structure in which consumers in another part of the country are involved. We have seen from several electricity distribution companies that, for example, mergers or similar operations have been carried out and that in such a context we can also ensure that there can be influence from consumers in a given area, that is to say that there is a consumer ownership in some form of construction, we are at least open to that, but I think that may be a relatively complicated process to take a position on here. In any case, of course, it will also depend on the specific model it gives itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204919	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205204922	As a follow-up to that, or perhaps just as a call to pay a little attention to the problem that could arise if it were the case that consumers in another part of the country should, if I may say so, make money on consumers here in Copenhagen and around, I would say that, in my view, it would be absolutely most sensible if we could have a solution where consumers in Radius' area, just like consumers in SEAS-NVE's area, are themselves shareholders and owners of their networks. It's a little strange that we have this small part of the country where we're for sale to the highest bidder whether it's capital funds or electricity consumption. I would certainly prefer a consumer-owned company on Zealand, but since SEAS-NVE for example. If we add up, everyone will become shareholders in the company, and that must be the model we should follow as the right one, including for us who are customers in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205015	If so, how to deal with it and which companies might be in play, I cannot comment on it for various reasons, since there has been a process where there has been a high degree of confidentiality. However, it is clear that the view, which is the socialist one, that there should be either a consumer-owned construction or that the public owner of more than half of the company, I think, is also quite clear now, and that will also be our principle in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205048	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205057	Thank you for that, President. Then there is such a proposal here about a legislative proposal in which we should be able to say who should be able to buy infrastructure in the Copenhagen area in the future. And it has to be said that the state is just the best at doing business, as history shows. That's what we can see. But it may not be quite true that this is the way it is. And that is why I would also like to say that the proposal here is actually sympathetic enough, if you look at the intentions of it that is to say that you want to have some way of controlling who owns and operates critical infrastructure in Denmark. We would like to join the Danish People's Party in this respect. In fact, I think that the Social Democrat rapporteur gave an excellent rapporteur's speech, which was also that it was about how Danish interests can be taken care of. But we may have to take care of them with others. It may be other Danish companies, it may be Danish pension funds, but it may also be foreign capital. But it is also important for the Danish People's Party that we are somehow sure that the infrastructure can also be controlled and be in Danish hands. That is why we really think the intentions of the proposal are good. We're not part of the conciliation circle anymore. It was the case that when DONG was put up for sale at the time, we were part of the conciliation circle, but we ended up being thrown out because we could not guarantee things. Yeah, you had 51 percent. of the shares, yet there was a minority shareholder who had a lot of influence over who was going to be financial director etc. So we didn't think the agreement had been fulfilled. That's where we got kicked out. That is why, in committee work, we would like to try to continue working on whether it would be possible to bring together the whole of the Danish Parliament in such a way as to produce a text on how we are working towards the return of the intentions that were actually established in connection with the sale of DONG and also on the intentions that are moving forward. It should not be as square as it is proposed here in the proposal, but we could somehow continue working on it. When we look at the whole discussion that has been going on about the sale of Radius and when we look at the conciliation circle, which unfortunately we are not part of, we also think that it is a conciliation circle that is beginning to look like a conciliation circle on which there is little agreement. Perhaps the question was whether we should not soon discuss what kind of conciliation should be in the field of energy. What is it, as some of the authors have said, for an electricity distribution network that we will have in the future, both in 10, 15 and 20 years' time? What's it gonna look like? How do we ensure the investments that need to be made in the electricity grid, etc.? We really want to be a part of that discussion. We cannot support the proposal as it is here, but we still feel that we can really see ourselves in some of the intentions of the proposers. But we think it is somewhat squarely set up in the proposal. We look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205400	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205406	Well, that's the last thing I'm gonna sign for. It might be very interesting to see if you could make a report about not with the whole committee, so at least with the majority in the Folketing, which has obviously been critical of the process that was going on. Just to say this: the Enhedslisten is not in favour of the state owning everything, nor is that what this proposal proposes. Yes, there are areas of infrastructure that I think it is wise that we have in public hands, as we have historically had. We also have this with our gas networks and with our transmission networks, and large parts of our supply sector are in municipal hands. So I don't think you should make fun of that. There are very many countries in Europe that have started to take things back to public ownership because it turned out not to be so smart that large capital funds had to come in and make money from it. But what we are actually proposing here is, we say, first of all consumer-owned cooperatives. After all, they own the electricity grid in the rest of Denmark. It is only us here in Copenhagen who are to be sold on the market to foreign capital funds. There is no one else; it is the consumer who owns it. So it's just to underline it: our proposal is, in fact, to get the same thing done in Radius' area as we have in the rest of the country. It does not go further than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205523	After all, a consumer-owned company is no more consumer-owned than a majority in a general meeting can decide otherwise. You have to remember that. I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party do not believe, for example, that a pension fund is a bad partner. Pension funds are among other things: some who have a long-term investment profile. We're more nervous about those who want to make a quick return. It may be capital funds and others who may not want to make large investments, but want to take over a well-functioning electricity network for a shorter period and then maybe sell it again. That is also what we saw in connection with Goldman Sachs and DONG: there was a rapid sale and capitalisation of the investment made. We do not want to be part of that again. But from there on, to say that there are only two options, that is, that it is the consumer's property or the state's, there is a long way to go. No, we see that there may also be other options than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205615	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205617	It's very funny, because I often think that the Danish People's Party places emphasis on this point of sticking to Danish traditions, but just exactly co-operative in relation to our supply sector is actually a 100-year-old tradition that we have had in Denmark, which we look at with envy in many other countries, and that tradition will not be maintained. For example, if you sell... For a pension fund, there is the big difference that what is special for a consumer-owned company is that there is a precise coincidence between those who own and those who consume. As soon as you bring in an actor who is not a consumer, you have a contradiction because those over here want the highest possible return, and those over there will of course have the lowest price. We probably do not have time for the discussion about co-operatives today, but there are therefore some strong advantages for consumers by that type of ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205704	I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is a great supporter of the consumer property. We have also said this publicly in connection with this debate. After all, we do not see the General Assembly as a point of uncertainty, but as a point of strength, and we must then convince the General Assembly if we want to sell it. It is just to say that that possibility exists today too, and it will also do so with the starting point here. So we are really looking forward to having a wider debate on what kind of electricity distribution network we need, what kind of investment we need to make and where it is that we need to get capital from when it comes to the future. We just have to say that we cannot support the proposal, but the intention that we should somehow ensure that the governance is in Danish hands, we can support it, and we would like to work on that with the government too.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205750	The next brief remark is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205801	Thank you. The rapporteur is quite right in saying that although it is consumer-owned, it is no guarantee that you cannot sell your network company. For a representative from SEAS-NVE, you can propose to the General Assembly that now you want to go into a process of selling your network company, and that is the gap that we also want to close with the Enhedslisten's proposal. Radius is the starting point for our proposal, but it has been included in this proposal that we will require the government to take the initiative to ensure that neither Radius nor any other part of the electricity distribution network can be resold by the consumer-owned cooperatives or by Energinet without political approval in the Folketing. It is in this way about the parts I hope we will be able to land some text for which we could gather broad support. I think it would be interesting to continue writing on this in a report. Does the rapporteur not see that it has a strength, that it is consumers who are also owners and that it can provide a completely different strength than if it is a random pension fund that owns the local network company?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205205912	But would it not be possible for a consumer-owned company to cooperate with a pension fund? I guess you could imagine. That is what we have written off the possibility of doing with this, and that is what we do not want. We actually see it in the light that we have the whole discussion about Denmark being an electrified society, and now we would say that raising extra capital for it will be significantly limited with a proposal like this. We do not want that. I would like to say that this Danish matter, the possibility of managing it, as we saw with DONG, where you had to sit back with 51 per cent. of the majority of the stock, so you sat for the table end... it was myself who used that expression... we think that kind of applies here too. But that is why you can work together, get capital from elsewhere, and at the same time have a part of the control. Cooperation also applies when we talk about the development of our electricity distribution network.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210001	The questioner asks his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210004	Well, I think there are some other requests for the critical infrastructure, which is the power grid, and I think it is a little thought-provoking that when you sold the high voltage network to Energinet.dk, it was actually with a clause that Energinet.dk was not allowed to re-sell it. We need, in fact, to ensure that the ultimate distribution network is not just able to be sold on the market. And yes, there's a lot of good things going on in these utility-owned energy companies where you work with others. However, there is something special about that network to ensure that all consumers have power, to which companies have a network authorisation and have the right and duty to service consumers. So it is something very special, and I hope we can come up with a wise text on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210051	Well, I hope so, too. I really hope that it can also be very wide-ranging. But I think we believe that there will be a need for quite large investments in the future, and if you believe that, at least you should not shut any doors behind you if you want to raise capital in this area. We therefore believe that the proposal as it stands closes doors rather than opening doors. That is why I think it would be very good, perhaps in a room other than just the Parliamentary Chamber, to have a discussion about where we should be in 10, 15, 20 years; what kind of investment there should be; and how to raise capital for it, while also ensuring that the electricity grid can be managed from Denmark. But whether it should be governed by the state, by the consumer-owned company or otherwise, I would say do not hurt the Danish People's Party so much. But it is of course important that it is in Danish hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210142	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go. Okay, apparently it was a mistake. Then we go to the immediate last too brief remarks to this rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210158	Thank you for that, President. Goldman Sachs has become such a name, you pull up, and then it somehow gets associated with all sorts of bad things. And that's not because there can't be good reason for it. Goldman Sachs' role in the financial crisis and all the money they received from taxpayers, and something like that, I certainly disapprove of as a liberal. But it has also become such a ghost when we talk about DONG and Ørsted. And we will not see that repeated, it is also said. And then what I just have to ask is, what has gone so wrong? So, DONG, now Ørsted, since the sale of part of the shares to Goldman Sachs, has been a tremendous success. Well, the company is worth more than twice as much. Billions and billions of dollars have been earned. I just find it hard to see what has gone so terribly wrong. What can be pointed out and said that what has happened here is absolutely terrible? Well, the state that owns Ørsted got some capital in. It has been an unbelievable success. Doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210307	What was probably the problem with the sale of DONG was that we got our ears full of the fact that we had a company that was almost in need. It lacked capital; one simply could not get out there. It was said: if we do nothing right now, everything will fall apart. I just wanted to say that in the short period of Goldman Sachs' presence over DONG, it wasn't their fault that things went so well. It had happened anyway. I'm sorry, I'm telling you, we got run around in the middle of a movie, and we sold it way too cheaply. It was a bad deal the state made, and we should have sold at a later stage at a far, far higher price. And we're not gonna have to do that story exactly the same one more time. Goldman Sachs is not a bandit; they made a good deal. The problem was in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210347	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210350	Well, I don't know if it was bandits who were in here then. I'm just thinking that there's been a company with a professional board who thought they needed some capital. And I will certainly not make myself a judge or say that I know more about what was needed than those who sat with it then knew. It was people who worked with it every day and who were paid a high salary for understanding what they were sitting with. I wouldn't say I know more than they do. If the state has made a bad deal, it must be because there were some who were willing to pay a higher price and where they then said: 'You should not be allowed to do so.' I am just not aware that there were some others who also had the same competences and who would give a higher price. I don't think they were there, and I guess you haven't made a bad deal, have you?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210445	Well, this is not the case we are discussing today, but it took a few months, and then there was quite a lot of capital coming from the English market, because you came out of some commitments that you had over there, what made the capital actually increase significantly. And perhaps that was also one of the reasons why it went so well, among other things. for Goldman Sachs. I would like to say that there is nothing wrong with Goldman Sachs. They made a good deal, and that's it. I'm just saying as a representative of the Danish People's Party: we've been sitting here for so long that we don't just let ourselves be lured into what to say, quickly making a deal like this again. There's more leg work to be done. We are no longer part of the conciliation circle; we really want to be again. In fact, I also sense that there is not much life left in that conciliation circle, and that is why we also think that the proposal that is being brought up here actually shows a need for us to have a discussion on how we should run this forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210533	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205210545	I was just getting nervous when the Danish People's Party's rapporteur started by saying that the state is best at owning companies and running them, but it was said with a glimpse in its eye. Thank you to the Enhedslisten for having tabled the proposal and for once again having a good, long day in the service of the people's regime, also in this field. After all, what the proposal contains has already been explained by the previous rapporteurs, so I must of course save both audiences in this Chamber and other listeners, in addition to saying that, from our point of view, the proposal is so superfluous in the sense that what is demanded of consumer protection and security of supply is already guaranteed, as electricity distribution companies are subject to economic regulation. And so will any future owner of Radius. The Enhedslisten then believes that it is very important to sell Radius to a consumer-owned company, because otherwise, you have to understand, prices for Copenhagen electricity customers will be raised quite unfairly. But if you look beyond the other consumer-owned electricity distribution companies that are in Denmark today, then they are equally trying to make the greatest possible profit, of course within the regulation in force, and that would also apply to Radius; there is no objection to that. On the contrary, it argues precisely that the possible sale of Radius to a non-consumer-owned company or non-consumer-owned company should not mean higher prices for the customers concerned, so this is not an premise that I can recognise if I look at history. In relation to what is also being talked about, with the national security of critical infrastructure, I do not know whether Enhedslisten so sincerely believes that the government will just sell out of critical infrastructure to anyone. It could almost sound like that. However, it is enough to go too far, for first of all, all considerations relating to national security are and were handled in the now cancelled sales process. Secondly, as you know, the government announced even before Christmas that a legal basis would be established, and the Minister for Finance has already mentioned this in the past, in relation to intervention against foreign investment in Denmark, precisely for the sake of national security and public order, as it says. So there was nothing to come for here either. In our opinion, the motion for a resolution, which has now been tabled, also contains a large number of unrealistic criteria as to who might be a potential buyer of Radius, and sales under those conditions would, moreover, most likely be contrary to current EU legislation in this area. At the same time, the resolution, as it stands here, if implemented, would mean that the state and thus the Danish taxpayers would not get the best possible price. And there we in the Left are also concerned that when we sell the property of the state the times when it is relevant, we also do so with respect for taxpayers' money, as is also the case here. So just to sum up: it is indeed the case that consumer protection and security of supply are already in place in the current sector regulation. National security was, and is, an important criterion in the now cancelled sales process, and in addition, as I said, the government is examining the possibility of creating a legal basis to ensure that foreign investors do not pose a threat to Denmark's national security. I do not think there can be a great deal of disagreement about the importance of this. So all in all, as I started by saying, I believe that this is an unnecessary motion for a resolution which, of course, we cannot support, and I would also like to add in this context that we are not so afraid of what we are talking about as this big, bad monster, namely foreign capital funds or anything else. We think that the most important thing is that there is regulation of things, and so ownership in that sense is less important. We are, of course, also rounded off by the spirit of participation and are therefore not, it can be said, sorry if it should become a so-called cooperative or what looks like a consumer-owned company. But we must also respect the rules that apply in this area, and we cannot just handpick one because we think it is exactly the right one. There we must have respect for the other considerations, as well as rules at EU level, such as: Danish pension funds and other companies benefit from and where you can go out and invest in other foreign companies and thus earn money with a sensible return home to Danish pension customers and to Danish taxpayers. So in this way it can be said that the arrow points both ways, and that is also with the remark I can say that we cannot support what is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211024	There is, for the time being, a single entry for short remarks. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211030	First of all, can I say about the EU rules, that this is not a public procurement procedure, it is a private company that sells away. We have previously separated other parts, for example. gas networks and other things, in a negotiated bidding process, for example. with the State Energy Network. So don't stand there and tell me that it is not possible within EU rules to do so, of course. It's happened before, and it can happen again. It's just a scaremongering. So just about this: it does not matter whether it is consumer-owned companies or other companies, because they are all withdrawing maximum remuneration within the revenue framework, it is possible, it is true, but can the rapporteur not confirm that in a consumer-owned company it is something that consumers choose whether they want to do or not. In a fund-owned or asset-managed company, it is something that an ownership company in Canada or where it was that you would sell to if it hadn't been stopped. Can't we just confirm that little difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211128	I just think it is essential when we talk about this motion for a resolution what kind of framework you want to do. Is it really realistic, can it be done, is it contrary to the rules in force or is it not, or is it purely hypothetical talk? It is true that there is, of course, a difference between what kind of ownership is involved, but there is no difference between what regulation it is about that ownership, including what pricing you can make, including, of course, whether it is the owner of one structure, i.e. the shareholders, or others who can handle these things. But history certainly says that there is no indication that if you are worried that prices would explode, if it were to be a non-consumer-owned company that went and took over it would happen in relation to those who are already consumers-owned. There, too, you go in and lie just below the revenue ceiling. Of course, you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211222	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211224	Yes, but it is consumers who then own the profits they make, and it can be traced back to consumers in one way or another or the third way, so there is a big difference. That is why we have a cooperative sector of which the rapporteur rightly says that the Left Party itself has been rounded up. But in almost every debate we have down here, it seems as if you have completely forgotten why people joined up in these communities. That was among other things. in order not to pay any excessive profits, whether we are talking about the dairy area or whether we are talking about the supply area. That was the reason for this, and that background is still there. There is a difference between whether it is consumers who own something together or whether it is outside interests, because in that case there is a contradiction between consumers who want low prices and the owner who wants high incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211311	I don't want this to be misunderstood. In other words, I have nothing against cooperatives, not at all, or, for that matter, consumer-owned companies, not at all. It would be a good thing if it were, it could be said, within the framework that it was such a type of company that had to take over. Well, I don't want it to be misunderstood. I am just concerned about what can then be done and what kind of framework we are working within if we are also to be taken seriously abroad afterwards. That is why I just remind you that the rules that apply to this area also apply to Danish companies when they are investing abroad. Now I myself am in a pension fund, and here we are, too, once in a while, investing in things that are happening outside the country's borders, thus also benefiting from the regulation that we then share within the European Union. That is just why I would remind you that it goes both ways, including with regard to sectoral regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211357	The next brief remark is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211400	Thank you. There has been some confusion among some in the debate about who to sell to and what the legislation gives the right, including EU legislation, etc. So just to make it clear: Jacob Jensen did not confirm to me that Ørsted and the state, as a majority shareholder, could say that they choose to sell to that particular company or company, in other words, a direct sale where it was not going into any open tender process? There are also previous examples from the financial conciliation circle that people have sold directly to those who have tendered in.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211451	There are, of course, rules on how we can handle these things. That is why I also just remind you that the rules go both ways, in relation to what the price is for it and what it is for regulation that lies around it. I just want to stick to the fact that it is important for us that we do not go loose in saying that we can just choose something, because then that's probably what we feel is best. It is also about what it is that we get for it. After all, it is a value that lies if you are to sell it, and hence also the value that goes into a further conversion of Ørsted's green conversion, which I think we share the wish to continue. So that's just why I'm referring to there are demands on these things. And by the way: once we have been through a process, we cannot just start up that process again, because then we would be hit by the fact that we would go against those who have then been invited to bid and then perhaps take advantage of their bid in the first place to get them to bid a different price. Of course, that's not gonna work either.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211547	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211548	That's true, because now someone's been bidding. So it won't work. But I do not think the rapporteur really answers my question. Could it not have been said from the outset that we are selling directly to a particular buyer? Well, there is no EU legislation against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211606	No, but it's also about us having to make sure what it is for a price we can get for it. And how are we going to find out unless there are different actors who are invited in to make a bid? Of course, you can do all kinds of valuations and say that we are so happy with that. But the most objective assessment of what the price is for a given company, in this case Radius, is to find out what the market offers in such indicative bids. Then you can then run a process. That is also what this process has shown, without, of course, going into what has been bid or who has bid. However, in order to test the market, we have to get more people to bid rather than sit over at the Ministry of Finance or Ørsted's management saying: then we sell here, and then we get some price for what we do not know about is the right one, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211647	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, for a short comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211652	Now the rapporteur says what is possible in such actions. We have recently seen that the gas network was transferred to Energinet and that there was a trade around it, where there was in fact only one buyer. If we just go back 5-6 years, the 150 kV network was sold from some co-owned companies to Energinet.dk, where at that time the companies could only sell to Energinet.dk. So it is something that has happened in the past that some of our important infrastructure, where there has been only one buyer and where it has nevertheless succeeded, has been dealt with in this way. Does the rapporteur not see that it must also be possible to re-examine it? That is what Enhedslisten's proposal here is for us to close a gap. We're gonna close that hole so you can't just sell our overall infrastructure to anyone. We want to limit it. We think it is very good that it is consumer-owned cooperatives that own. In fact, it could still be municipalities that own. Then there is the possibility that Energinet as second priority will be able to own. Does the rapporteur not see that, in this way, there are some historic opportunities which, like us, suggest that we can deal with this within the borders of the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211805	As I see it, there are two things to answer, just briefly: for me, it is crucial what regulation is about the future owner, including ensuring national security, including ensuring security of supply, including ensuring the prices at which customers in the given company can be met. The sectoral regulation applies today, as it applies tomorrow, regardless of what it is for an owner. It's like the one. The second is to say that you can then choose one out and that everything is good. Yes, but we also have to say that this is a listed company, we are talking about where the state is the main shareholder. Well, it's still gone a listed company that was about to sell part of it. It requires some consideration, also some consideration of the reputation that must be forward-looking, in relation to what it is for a partner, Denmark and the Danish state, if so, if we, because we had some feelings for a particular buyer, picked some out, despite the fact that we were not aware whether it was really the right buyer at the right price.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211910	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211911	Well, if you go for the price most, then there are some things you give lower priority to. I think it is good that the gas grid is in Danish hands. I think it is better than if it was a Russian company that owned the Danish gas network and like would operate it in a different way. In the same way, I feel about this power grid, which is that I think it is best to have a Danish solution. Then these energy companies can do anything else. They have a free equity, so they have a room for manoeuvre. But right with a network company, that's the hole we want to close with this proposal. Does the rapporteur not see that price is not the most important thing here? It is control over the country's important infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205211955-2	Yes, and that is why it is just that I continue to say that we already have that control through the regulation and the legislation surrounding these things. It applies today as it applies tomorrow, regardless of who will be the owner of Radius. Then Mr. Pelle Dragsted saying I'd been out in a scaremongering campaign. I just have to say that when the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten says that it could have been some from Russia and all sorts of other things, of course I cannot say anything about the confidentiality that exists, but I think that you can almost both listen to the Minister for Finance and read that it has been sensible bidders who have been there. It has been both domestic and foreign, but it has been sensible bidding. But the most important of all is that the regulation, including national security regarding pricing and about ownership structure, is already regulated in the sectoral law applicable, and it will also be forward-looking, regardless of who will own Radius if a new sale should be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212049	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more short remarks right now. The next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212055	Thank you for that, President. Radius, unfortunately, has been the subject of much controversy in recent weeks, because the sales process that had been going on since July has gone a long way in the process. Thousands of man-hours in the Ministry of Finance, in Ørsted, were thus wasted. The reputation of the state as a credible negotiating partner has suffered a break. Why? Primarily because the Social Democracy was not the task of adulthood when it came to it. Popularism was chosen rather than the path of responsibility and honesty. Too bad for Ørsted, for taxpayers and the reputation of the Danish state. As others have said, security of supply is guaranteed through legislation, through regulation. That's what I'm talking about. Many examples can be found throughout history of monopolies run by states or private ones, where regulation has been poor, which has led to more expensive and poorer products, goods or services for citizens. It is regulation that is important; it is regulation that protects consumers and regulation is in place in Denmark. Therefore, a requirement for Radius to be able to be sold only to certain types of company is not a guarantee of better consumer protection. That is simply wrong. In addition, EU legislation prevents discrimination on the basis of company forms when selling state companies. Luckily for that. It also protects Danish companies from being discriminated against in sales processes abroad. Energy networks should not, of course, own electricity distribution companies either. Energy networks must be a market-neutral player. They are responsible for regulatory tasks and therefore, of course, they should not be in direct competition with other electricity distribution companies. It is, of course, a cornerstone of the regulation that we have in Denmark and, incidentally, in the rest of the European Union. This is why Banedanmark owns the rails and DSB other players offer to run on them. We cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212348	Thank you. There is one question: Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212354	This issue of EU legislation continues to be repeated. Well, Ørsted is a private company. It is true that there is a majority of state shares, but it is therefore not covered by EU procurement rules or similar cases. We have received an answer from the Minister about this, and otherwise the Minister will have to solve it again. As Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned earlier, we have precedents where we have chosen a negotiated sales process of parts of our infrastructure. So it's just wrong. Then there is another and more fundamental question: is there any part of our infrastructure that the Liberal Alliance believes cannot be sold to the highest-off capital fund, i.e. the railways, the roads, the transmission network? Is there anything that the Liberal Alliance believes should be owned by the Danes themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212454	It is simply not true that there is no EU legislation to prevent you from simply selling to anyone you want now. There is. There may be examples of having negotiated with an actor, but then you have to go into a sometimes difficult process and prove that you have actually sold at market prices, and with regard to others, for example. In the case of Jyske Bank, it was then opened up to others, if anyone wanted to bid higher, to go in and buy. That's the way it is. There's nothing wrong with what I'm saying. Then we are asked whether there was anything we could imagine that could not be owned by private individuals. No, there isn't. I can't think of anything. For what is essential is that there is regulation that protects consumers from the exploitation of a monopoly. That is what is absolutely essential. Of course, we do not believe that anyone should be able to exploit a monopoly-like state, and that is why it is entirely in line with good market regulation that there is regulation in those areas where there is a natural monopoly that protects consumers from the fact that somebody is taking unfair prices. But the state can also be someone who takes exorbitant prices. The government has a double role to play. The state collects taxes, and if the state then has a monopoly, it easily becomes a tax screw, where you can turn prices up to get some indirect taxes through in that way. There are also examples of this from among others. England. So the fact that the state was supposed to be a good owner and that it was supposed to protect consumers is not true. It is regulation that protects consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212636	Thank you. Does the author wish to speak on the second brief point? No. Then it is thanks to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205212656	Thank you very much, sir. President. Let me start by thanking Enhedslisten for bringing up this resolution. We cannot support it. We are in the conciliation circle where you sit and negotiate these things, and are therefore also burdened with a knowledge and history in it. However, we think that the motion for a resolution can be said to raise an important debate in principle, which is also suitable for being taken, so that everyone can keep up with it. We don't think it's quite as simple as Enhedslisten puts it out, but we think it's close by let me put it that way. So, we also have a very great preference for the whole consumer-owned tradition in the Danish energy sector. It is quite right, as several people have pointed out, that today we have a strong regulation of the entire sector which ensures that we cannot simply milk these nets at will. One cannot simply invest at will, and one has a revenue framework regulation which, in itself, is quite zealous and detailed. But it is also difficult, and it is also bureaucratic, and there is also a beauty in the fact that this natural monopoly is owned by consumers and thus also protected by consumers themselves. We can easily see that. We in my party have a long historical tradition of this, and that is why we would also like to see the end result in maintaining the consumer-owned approach, as opposed to today, when Radius is sold out. There are many things that speak for that. There is also something to be said for the sales process which has been initiated with regard to Radius and which the proposal does not go into at all and which I think should be taken into account. It is perfectly legitimate that Ørsted wants to sell Radius. Those poor customers shouldn't be held hostage in a company that doesn't want them. Radius, I believe, has been the world's largest offshore wind turbine company, which has driven this development significantly to the benefit and joy of all of us and of the climate, and where capital has really been put into a strong expansion of green energy, a desire to concentrate on that task in terms of fire, management and capital terms. We welcome this as a very good idea. The question is, of course: can you imagine ownership structures where you can also bring in players who have some experience with the electricity markets that we are now about to build and which are, of course, the next generation of the green transition? One can say that we have driven it so far with the green transition that producing wind energy today very soon takes place at a hundred percent market conditions, one can say because it is simply the cheapest form of energy there is. After all, the next major step is that the consumption of wind energy and the use of wind will become much more dynamic, including the use of the networks, which will have a relatively limited capacity, unless we find a more intelligent way to use it and make new forms of customer offerings, where we will have more control over our electricity consumption and thus the load on the grid in order to deal with the fluctuating energy. This is something that you do not just work with in Denmark. It is also being dealt with in Sweden and in several other European countries, and in fact some of the pension companies have shown interest here, who have worked on such market developments on the networks for the benefit of both customers and green conversion etc., but of course also for business purposes. So we think it might be interesting to get some of that experience base in. That is why we were able to see some prospects in consortia where a consumer-owned company was at the forefront and saw some with experience from other countries' green conversions in these areas. We would be able to see a perspective in that too. It's just to say that there may well be different considerations and therefore different possible solutions to how this can end well, so that we can be reassured that the network is a safe place, including security policy and security of supply. And I think we fully share Enhedslisten's intention in this area, but that at the same time we also bring in some new players who can help to develop the entire Danish electricity network and system. Not only as a large dairy cow, I had almost said, but also because there may be a need to develop the entire Danish distribution system. After all, we agree that the transmission network and the regional networks are located in Energinet.dk and that they must continue to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213146	There are, for the time being, two comments which have been made briefly, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213153	First of all, thank you for your positive reception. This question of consortia and experience is of course interesting. I wonder whether this kind of experience is not something one can buy, so that ownership is still with consumers, as we have a long, long tradition of in Denmark, especially when Mr. Martin Lidegaard, like us, is concerned with maintaining the cooperative tradition that one has. I'm a little worried about the bleeding of it. I am also a little concerned about the perspective of SEAS owning Radius, but without the customers in Radius' area being shareholders in SEAS. It is also a watering down of our form of participation, which I think will make it easier to question whether it really is qualitatively different from other companies. I don't know if sir. Martin Lidegaard shares that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213252	I don't really know if I do. What the questioner is talking about is whether you are making a real merger, so it is all consumers in the area in question, or whether you are creating a company structure. In fact, I would say there will be advantages and disadvantages of both models. I understand where the questioner is going with the question, but there may well be some capital conditions, and it's not to make this very complicated in these companies, because they each have their own history. Radius originally came from a community-owned company with a certain form of capital management. I simply cannot see right now whether it makes sense for consumers in Zealand to take over the whole of the capital management, or whether it could actually put additional costs on them. Anyway, you can think about that. It is just to say that it is not quite so on the surface that it necessarily per. definition would be in the interests of consumers with a particular company structure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213354	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213356	Well, the problem is, if you take it all the way down to the ground, for example. We who live in this area I do, and there are 1 million others who also do so will not have any democratic influence in, let's say, it was a SEAS-NVE consortium. We would have been left out of democratic influence in that cooperative business and would also be without the right to the return and democratic management of whether it should be brought back into our pockets or used for investment in new exciting green projects or whatever. Can the rapporteur not see that this is a bit a break with the whole idea of consumer ownership and co-responsibility, namely that there is an resemblance between consumers and owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213439-2	Well, I can see that this would be the most beautiful and most beautiful from a democratic point of view, with one vote per person. Head, pr. consumer, in a common company. I can quite see that. What I'm just pointing out is that I don't have to take care of this, but I just want to make that reservation; let me put it that if you have to buy a company, including this company's capital, there will probably be different costs associated with it for the consumers who buy. So you just have to take that into account. And then it may well be that you prefer not to have the right to vote if you then get a lower electricity price.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213522	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213527	But that is why, after a merger or a trade, you can have different network tariffs in two different geographical areas for a transitional period, as it were. So that barrier doesn't exist, it can be solved. As far as the capital needs of the energy companies are concerned, that is not the barrier. And compared to those electronic meters: Well, in the Jutland Funen, they've been installed a long time ago. You may still be missing a bit in Copenhagen. The industry is ready for the intelligent power grid, which is the future, and it is not the capital requirement that is the barrier. Well, I think it's talkin' around driving out that track. The energy companies we have in Denmark have seen enough capital. They're upholstered for the future, I mean. Then, of course, there may be some political initiatives that can be taken and one of the biggest decisions that have been made in the Folketing and that have had an impact on these companies is to allow one to have mortgage financing for one's fiber investments. That decision has really been important in many companies. So there are frameworks that we can decide in this Parliament and that can make these energy companies feel better economically and are better financially upholstered for the future. So I do not really think it is the things the rapporteur outlines that are the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213643	I therefore agree that most energy companies in Denmark do not lack capital. There are some evil tongues that would say that they have too much capital, but that is another discussion. But what I pointed out was that you can imagine that you can get some expertise from other markets. So, there is no doubt that in many areas Denmark is no. 1 in the green transition in the energy sector, but there is also no doubt that we have begun to have great competition from outside, and that some countries and sectors have more experience than we have, with the development of what can be called intelligent electricity markets, intelligent electricity systems. That's the expertise, sir. Pelle Dragsted mentioned if you couldn't just buy it. Of course, one can also imagine that a company that has experience in that area and expertise in different markets will be more interested in providing its expertise if they have their own hand on the hob, and also to be able to make business models with it. So I guess I'm a little less market scared, to put it bluntly than Enhedslisten is. And I actually believe that the whole cooperative idea in Denmark, which both parties love very much, could be fertilised and developed, even if one dared to think a little out of the box • but on the basis that the core is that it is basically consumer-owned.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213756	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205213818	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for the proposal. We will not support it, but I think it is a good opportunity for a fundamental debate. The time after we in the SF and the Social Democratic Party rejected the further process has been marked by a great many leaks, immense spins, unfortunately not least by our Finance Minister and his spin doctor. On the way, I have alone explained what I have said on behalf of the SF inside the negotiating room and outside. In politics there is a need for confidentiality, even when we are smoking disagreements, but that confidentiality has been broken over and over again, and the Minister for Finance's interpretation here at the beginning of the debate seems to me simply to be the last drop. Backing up the structured sales process we hear the Minister of Finance say that as if it were the only thing that had happened this summer when we started this process. That is why, instead of going back to the background of some journalist, I would like to say openly what happened. And that's quite unusual, but there isn't a certain amount of confidentiality left by now. This summer we met in the conciliation circle, and in the SF we were critical of a sale, but the Minister of Finance said that it probably ended with a consumer-owned company that was the goal at least. It wasn't enough for us. In the SF, we wanted the possibility of a veto, and the conclusion was that the sale had to be returned to the conciliation circle before the final sale and the buyer were approved by the conciliation parties. When the conciliation parties met in December, we were presented with a turnaround by the Minister for Finance. Now it should be up to Ørsted to choose tenderers freely without political interference. We said no to that, and the rest is history. The crucial thing for us in the negotiations was that a sale could lead to a better construction than the current one, and that is why I thought it was too bad when the discussion sometimes became a question of why we should sell at all. Well, if the better result was that it ended up in consumer-owned hands, it is better than that it is owned by an Ørsted that doesn't want to own Radius. However, the constraints which I have also mentioned are that there was an expectation that it would end up in consumer-owned hands, that it would have to go back into the conciliation circle and that a buyer would finally have to be approved, was the security we had, and that is why we started. If there's anything I might regret in this process and in the light of hindsight, maybe it was in connection with the things that were promised from the beginning. Since they were not respected, one should perhaps have just said from the outset that no, we can only say yes to a direct sale to a buyer, which one can also do in other cases • we have heard Vestjysk Bank mentioned in this regard. I don't think this is pretty for Denmark, it's not good for Denmark, and I don't think it's good for the companies that have spent time and resources on this. However, there was no doubt about what was agreed at the beginning, what we said in the negotiating room, and what we have said outside too. The process shows that there is a clear majority in the Folketing, which is now turning towards further privatisation of vital infrastructure • Enhedslisten, Social Democrat, SF, Alternativet and DF and I think that is fantastic. It's a paradigm change we like in the SF. I hope that this will also be an opportunity to have a greater and more fundamental debate, as I actually think, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard earlier opened up here about what we should own together and what might well be privately owned. What should be consumer-rights and what should be state-owned and how to secure our future infrastructure, both against those who are there for profit alone, but just as much in the context of the discussion that, for example, is going to take place. is associated with Huawei in Denmark. It is also a matter of national security in the end, and it is both when it comes to electricity, when it comes to fibre cables and much else, that it becomes part of an ecosystem that is crucial to making our country stick together. And that's why I hope that the fact that we're having this bigger and more fundamental discussion can hopefully be the end of this not so nice process, that is, we're having that discussion with each other. In fact, I believe that there may be a greater degree of consensus when we get a little distance from what has happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214348	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214352	First of all, thank you for sharing a little bit about what's been going on behind the curtains. I think it's really nice to get an insight into that. It's a somewhat different picture from what's been told. And by the way, thank you for sticking to the negotiations on this issue. I think it has been exemplary work. Then I'm just gonna go back to that talk about the future. For we can look back a lot, but if we are to see a future for Radius for us customers in this area, how does the rapporteur deal with the issue that has been debated here, whether a consumer-owned company also means that it is owned by consumers in Radius' network area, as well as other consumers in Denmark own the electricity distribution in their own network area? Is that the solution that SF is pursuing, or is it fine if it is a consumer-owned company for another part of the country, which then owns and operates Radius as an ordinary commercial company?
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214453	There are many points on such a scale from really bad to really good. Some of the things that were really, really bad have also been explained by the Minister for Finance before any indicative bids were made. Nor do we think that it was good enough for a pension fund in some European country to own it, because there is no binding which would prevent it from being sold to a fund if a very good offer were made. And it is fine what European pension funds want or do not want, but ultimately critical infrastructure must be in Danish hands, we think, and preferably also owned by consumers themselves. Compared to that, sir. Pelle Dragsted asks if it is a consumer property if it is owned by a consumer-owned company. In other words, if we take SEAS-NVE, which has been discussed a great deal in the debate, then there is a conflict, because who will own it? Well, it won't be Radius consumers themselves. And how do you move on that way? We have also thought in SF: Well, how could Radius customers own it? And it's not that easy. I'd like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214620	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214622	Well, then, I would just like the rapporteur to come back to that. Because it could be that, now that there is a little openness about what has been going on in the process, one could tell whether there had been some discussion about the possibility, that is to say, that a purchase offer could be made, if I may say so, to consumers in the area. Such a quick hit on the bag is that even with a very high price it will be about approx. 20,000 kroner. per household. And it may be a very good investment, as long as we pay 500 kroner. in pure return every year right now to the Radius owners in Ørsted. But the question is, of course, how that capital can be brought forward, whether there is a possibility that the government can help in one way or another in relation to loan capital or other. I mean, is that something that's been discussed? Because I think that both as a politician and as a consumer in the area would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214715	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214716	That is what we are discussing now and, I hope, also in time. Well, there's got to be a market price in some kind of rental. There must also be some time, because we must not take advantage of those who have delivered indicative tenders. But in the long run, you could get to that. But then the question is, is it the Radius customers who have to put this money up front in order to become owners themselves? Does anyone have to give them a loan to help with that? There are limits to what the state can do to help Radius customers. In fact, I do not think that is legal or desirable. So how do you ensure that customers themselves gain control over their own business, have the capital to buy it, and also have some capital to run it? That's what I think it's gonna be hard to get up. But it may be that we will hear some exciting suggestions about how this could happen in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214826	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205214837	Thank you very much. The sale of Radius has been suspended, and this has happened, as you know, on the basis of the fact that there was a majority in the Danish Parliament which no longer supported the process which was, as it were, planned and which had actually been planned since the listing of Ørsted. It ended up in an unsightly and embarrassing process, where the role of the state as a majority shareholder suffered a violent loss of confidence. If you support the proposal that we are dealing with now, this confidence gap, which the state has suffered as a majority shareholder, will be followed up by an illegal state aid case, and of course we cannot support that. For Ørsted must not select any particular form of company over others, according to the process one has been through. In the Conservative People's Party, we have nothing against Radius being sold to a consumer-owned cooperative or, for that matter, an owner with a different form of company, such as that in question. is the case today, when Radius is owned by a listed company. What is important to us is that the electricity distribution companies in Denmark, regardless of their ownership, comply with the legislation in Denmark, so that consumers get the right quality at the right price. After all, we have legislation in Denmark which means that as an electricity distributor, for example, you cannot raise the price or refrain from maintaining the electricity grid, and it is important to stick to it. Ørsted is the world's leading company in the development of offshore wind turbines, and therefore their focus today is elsewhere. They want to further develop their business and strengthen the green conversion, and a sale of Radius will release resources to pursue the plan. We support this in the Conservative People's Party and we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215046	There is one more brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215050	I would just like to say one more thing: what Enhedslisten is proposing is not contrary to state aid rules. It is a complete repetition of similar sales processes that have been for other parts of the infrastructure, including sales originating from Ørsted, formerly DONG. It may be that I have to ask the Minister a follow-up question so that we can have a clear explanation of what kind of framework the European Union is setting, but we have had a discussion of it in consultation, and this is not a public tender here. It is a private company which, in principle, must decide to whom they sell to. But let me ask another and perhaps a slightly more constructive question. Now it's the case that this sale has fallen because there was no majority in the Folketing that could back up that process. Then you can talk about all sorts of things with that process and about who is responsible and everything else, but what is the Conservative People's Party's bid on how we can move forward in a way that can then also secure a majority in the Folketing? I would find that interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215155	That's actually a very good question. I do not know if I can give a clear answer, because then I should know what exactly a majority in this House supports. What I can say is that, as long as we have the legislation we have the regulation we have of the market, we are not so worried about selling to companies other than co-owned ones. We supported the process that was, and we are still doing so away. How we can move on from here, of course, we must sit in the conciliation circle and find out. I cannot really stand here and give a clear answer to that. I can only answer on behalf of the Conservative People's Party. We supported the process, and then we must sit in the circle and find out what we are doing from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215238	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, so we have finished with the general rapporteur's report and are now giving the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205215309	Thank you. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure that the part of our electricity distribution network serving 1 million households in the Copenhagen area, North Zealand, Roskilde area, Hornsherred will not in future be sold to, for example. foreign capital funds, asset managers or similar ownership groups, but instead we stick to the hundred-year tradition we have in Denmark that this kind of critical infrastructure, monopolies, is either owned by the public sector, for example. municipalities or the State are owned or owned by consumers themselves through cooperative companies. The proposal was made because Ørsted announced that Radius would be sold off this summer. Fortunately, it created a lot of debate and I have actually been surprised at how many citizens there have been very, very concerned about this issue. I think that we here in Denmark like have one before and one after Goldman Sachs. I think that a lot of Danes have just had enough after the TDC, after the Serum Institute, which was to be sold to a Shariasheik, and after this, and you don't want to do this anymore. That is why there was a strong reaction and a great many people involved, and thank you for that, because it was also a factor in the end as it did, namely that this sale has been suspended at least for the time being. But it is also clear that Ørsted, we have heard, still wants to get rid of Radius. And as I mentioned earlier, why was it so important to get Radius over when the company was listed? Why didn't they separate it from what we were proposing back then? But Ørsted wants to get rid of it, and I don't think Ørsted is an optimal owner either. As has been said, it is a listed limited company, and it also goes straight to the border, because it costs each household in the area of approx. 500 kroner. per year in pure interest. It is, as some have called it, a golden faucet, it is a safe cash flow. So it's kind of nice for Radius to stand out, but the question is, for what? There it is, then, that we have the discussion about which owner we want. And there have been various points raised in this debate, including: that it does not matter what owner we have because we have such a regulation that ensures that, whether it is a consumer-owned company or others, they will be subject to the same rules. I will just have to quote some of the experts who have spoken in this area about the difference between bringing in a large asset manager or capital fund. And I can start with Frede Hvelplund, a professor at Aalborg University, and he says: "The establishment of the revenue framework is a very complex process with many areas of interpretation, and in that process the Supply Authority will face a new buyer's army of economists and lawyers, which they can hardly match. It's a professor. Then we can move on to an expert in the electricity market from Roskilde University, Anders Larsen, and he says: "If the companies that need to be regulated are very much larger than those that need to regulate them, then we have a general problem. They can pay higher wages and have the opportunity to influence the political processes. That's what he says. Let's just take Professor Brian Vad Mathiesen, and he says: "The second balance that can change is the relationship of power between regulator, i.e.. Supply Control, and the owner. As soon as you bring in a money-rich owner without any connection to Denmark, consumers or the state, you can imagine that the regulator will be more challenged with the aim of being able to withdraw more money. If we look around the world where you also have legislation that hits this, we've seen how some of these companies have managed to increase prices and increase earnings through various maneuvers. So there's cause for concern, and it's stupid just to push it aside. In addition, there is the fact that, as I said, there is, after all, a fundamental difference between a consumer-owned company and other types of company, namely that in a consumer-owned company it is consumers who decide. It may well be that some of the consumer-owned companies also go to the edge of the revenue framework regulation, but then it is because consumers have decided it. They could decide otherwise if they wanted to. It's called democracy, and that's what we salute in here. In fact, it is also a very good idea to have in companies, especially in companies in monopoly areas such as the electricity network. That is probably why we have had that tradition in Denmark for a hundred years, and I think it was good that the rapporteur of the Left pointed out that it is actually something in which the Left is firmly anchored. It's just as if the realization of why it was that you chose to own these things together has slipped away. After all, there was a reason why the cooperative movement was born in Denmark, and it was about ensuring cheaper prices for consumers and greater democratic influence. Then there have been these arguments about EU legislation. Of course, there is a framework; there is no open invitation to tender, as I have said. It is a private company which, in general, can decide for itself who you want to sell to. Of course, we need to find out what obstacles there can be. I would just like to point out, as has also been said, that we have therefore negotiated sales processes around our gas distribution network and around our electricity transmission networks, i.e. the main routes that cross the country. I guess that's impossible. Thank you for the positive reception that has been given to the proposal by a majority in the Danish Parliament, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for their wish to take this further in committee. We need to look at what the possibilities are, because right now there is a bit of a stalmate, you might say it stands still; the conciliation circle has somehow run into a dead end, so there has to be a way forward. And it would be a good thing to get to grips with those discussions. Thanks also to the Social Democrats and the SF for having taken the choice that has been made and also, as has been shown, have tried to fight in the conciliation circle for a sensible solution. And I would also like to thank the Radical Left for supporting the idea of co-responsibility. What must be the task now is to find the way forward where it may be possible that we, who are electricity consumers in the million households that form part of Radius' network area, will be able to become owners of our electricity grid in the same way as most other Danes are. In my view, this will be the best solution. It is clear that the proposal envisages that if it is impossible, then another solution could be to use Energinet.dk, which already owns the transmission network, so a state solution. But I'd prefer the other one if it's possible. So with these words, I thank you for a good and I think also informative and exciting debate on this theme. I think this is a theme that we are going to spend some time on in the years to come. SF's rapporteur called it a paradigm shift. At any rate, I believe that if we look into the population, we will see some kind of paradigm change or, at least, an increased awareness that the thinking we had in these years when we thought that everything was best if it was just left to the highest bidder on the market, probably no longer has the support of the population. And, of course, it also requires the parties in here to find solutions that can gain support. I think that's really good. And the good thing in Denmark is that we have a tradition build on. We're not gonna invent it all over again. It is thus here in our country that the cooperative movement has large parts of its roots. There are strong companies with a strong democratic foundation, and this is a tradition that we can build on. We do not need to leave our infrastructure to foreign capital funds. We can choose something else. And that is what we need to find the way forward for now. So I regret the late settlement of our motion for a resolution. And thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205220145	Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Finance Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190205220203	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 6 February 2019 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
