ParlaMint-DK_20190116130022	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Christian Langballe (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 78 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of an authorization system for undertakers). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then I shall inform you that Question No 1 will be answered in writing.' 9 and 10 (S 370 and S 371) of the Orla Hav to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior shall be removed at the request of the Minister. The questions will be answered on Wednesday 30 January 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130102	We are ready for the first question, and it is for the Minister for the Environment and Food of Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130117	I give the floor to the author for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130122	Thank you. The question is: will the Minister, on the basis of Professor of Environmental Law Ellen Margrethe Basse's statements in the article "New Challenge for the Government's Lindholm Project: Two endangered bird species live on the island on Dr.dk, ensure that an impact assessment is carried out for the Natura 2000 area where Lindholm is located prior to the establishment of the new exit centre?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130147	Thank you for that and we give the floor to the Minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130150	Thank you for the question. I know that the Enhedslisten is fighting with great enthusiasm against any decision which could lead to more criminal foreigners being expelled in Denmark, and I would therefore like to stress first of all that the decision to set up an exit centre at Lindholm for example. criminal deportees are a good and proper decision. The foreigners who are placed on Lindholm are foreigners who have done their utmost to ensure that they are not wanted in Denmark. Therefore, they must be broadcast as soon as possible. Having said that, the very project of establishing the exit centre is in its infancy. When it is described in detail, a decision will be taken as to whether it requires an assessment under the Nature Directives. The government will, of course, ensure that assessments, including Natura 2000 assessments, are carried out as required by legislation before the exit centre can be established. And for the sake of good order, I must remind you that although Lindholm, as its name suggests, is an island, it is not a desert island. There is already activity on the island in the form of DTU's institutions. I have also noted that the professor of environmental law to whom the questioner refers in an article in Berlingske, which is, moreover, the basis of the article in Dr.dk to which the questioner refers, has stated that since DTU already has activities on the island, it is not certain that an assessment should be made. It is for me to see an important nuance that the questioner did not just get into the rush. So the answer is: if the legislation requires an assessment to be made, then of course an assessment will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130332	Then it is the questioner for the first round of questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130334	Of course, there should be no doubt that the government's project to send rejected asylum seekers to Lindholm is not only a foolish idea, but it is also a very, very expensive project that the government has set in motion here. In addition, it is also important to say that Lindholm is precisely located in a Natura 2000 area, which is therefore subject to the EU Nature Conservation Directive. It is because there are special species of birds, including the sea-trench, that breed on Lindholm and that Denmark is obliged to look after to the European Union. And, as the Ministry of the Environment itself says, the sea tern is already threatened by human activity. What is going to happen, if I understand the government correctly, is that the equivalent of a small village should be in Lindholm. It is therefore somewhat different from the way in which research is conducted today. So my next question in the line will be this: is it the idea that the residents, the rejected asylum seekers, who are going to live on Lindholm, should understand me fairly or should they be able to move around the island and thus also in the area where the sea tern breeds, and affect the life of the sea tern and other terrestrial birds?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130506	In other words, how to set up Lindholm in concrete terms does not belong entirely under my remit, but that part of the question does indeed say: will there be areas not affected by the activities that are to take place at Lindholm in the future? And that is, of course, one of the things that needs to be taken into account when and if we are to look at such an impact assessment. So of course it must also be included in a possible assessment, but it is a little outside my remit to respond to. It is not pure evil, it is simply because I do not know about the interior design of Lindholm. But, of course, it will play a part.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130546	The questioner for round two.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130547	It is a pity that the Minister does not know the concrete parts of the government's plan. But perhaps the Minister can inform me and the rest of the Danish population when a developer will be appointed, who will surely be given the drawings which will be the basis for the upcoming Lindholm project?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130613	I would say that I am quite familiar with the plans, and that is at the same level as the questioner seems to be doing. I assume that when the questioner asks questions, it is because there is not such complete crystal clarity about what is being asked, and not because it was something that could be broken up. Having said that, and it was just a comment on the introduction, I would like to say that it has not yet been decided when this developer will be appointed and which state authority will be the developer of the establishment of the exit centre here. It will be the case that if the project is covered by the Environmental Assessment Act and it is a State developer, then it will be the State which is the competent authority. And if it is a private developer, it will be the Municipality of Vordingborg, which is the competent authority in relation to the assessment that the question is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130703	The questioner, last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130704	Thank you for the Minister's willingness and also for the positive attitude towards protecting an endangered breeding site for an important bird, which we are also obliged to provide with proper conditions. Finally, I would just like a guarantee from the Minister that, if the rejected asylum seekers are not to be fenced onto the island and therefore cannot move around, the Minister will, of course, ensure that there is an impact assessment of the project and whether this smaller village will have an impact on birds' livelihoods and food opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130744	The Minister for the Final Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130746	In other words, the nature directives do not prohibit activities in the areas we are talking about here. They require a concrete materiality assessment and, where appropriate, an impact assessment before starting activities in this way. And those assessments will show whether the establishment of such an exit centre will affect the Natura 2000 area. Neither I nor the questioner have the powers to judge, so we should leave that to those who have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130821	The question is closed. Thank you to the questioner. We move on to the next question. It is also for the Minister for the Environment and Food, and it is by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130831	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130833	Why has the Minister authorised the use of stained sugar beet seeds for Danish production of sugar beet with bi-killing poisons that are banned in the EU?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130846	The minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116130847	Now it is not I, as Minister for the Environment and Food, who grant exemptions to the use of pesticides. It is not quite so in general. The questioner also knows that well, and it has not been in this particular case either. The questioner knows that too. It is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency which has granted the derogation in question, and this has been done on the basis of a specific professional assessment according to the rules of the Pesticides Regulation. The Danish EPA follows strict exemption practices, and they only provide a derogation if safe use can be shown for both people and the environment. There is also a requirement that there should be no flowering crops in the field in the following year. The EU ban on the use of neonicotinoids outdoors does not prevent such a derogation from being granted. As part of the general procedure for the treatment of exemption applications, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has asked the Department of Agroecology at Aarhus University to whom we call AGRO in a daily speech about an agricultural professional assessment of whether there are alternatives to the applied application. And AGRO has assessed that there are no approved alternative means or methods in relation to the picking of beet seed which can ensure beet beet against the insect attacks in question. It is the Danish EPA's overall professional assessment that the picking of beet seed with a low concentration of neonicotinoids does not pose an unacceptable risk to the environment or health with the prescribed risk mitigation measures.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131029	The questioner for round one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131031	Thank you. There has been some public criticism of whether Aarhus University has done this thoroughly enough. This is among other things. Mr President, I should like to point out in the FORKER forum that has asked the lecturer who has dealt with the matter, who then answers: the politicians have decided that it should be possible to apply for a derogation. Our task in this context was to make a factual, agricultural assessment, while at the same time being loyal to the possibility of exemption, no matter what we might think of the matter ourselves. An environmental assessment was not part of our mission. ▪ So that means that Aarhus University has thus dealt with the purely agricultural field. And it is also interesting to see that in the agricultural assessment there is also a critical comment that one should have a crop rotation where beet cultivation was no more than every four years. When you look at what sugar beet producers recommend, they run with a crop rotation where they have beet every three years, where it is like the recommendation, and where it can result in more insects, which can survive on the farm where you have such a poor crop rotation. I would like to hear from the Minister about this agricultural assessment that has been made on this matter. I would like to ask whether it is true that it is the agricultural sector that has been weighted, and not the environmental sector, which should also be assessed when it comes to going in and granting exemptions to the use of toxic substances that the European Union has otherwise banned. I think it is a strange practice that has arisen here when we want to grant these exemptions to such an extent. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is true that it is this agricultural assessment which has been weighted most in the assessment given by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131230	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131231	I think it is an interesting choice of words that you so much but leave it alone. I mean, this derogation is based on an assessment that says: are there any alternatives? And do the alternatives you might have to be worse for the environment? Do they risk having a worse impact on the environment, on health and potentially also on drinking water? And then you go in and say: what is most appropriate to use here, and can we minimise the risks associated with it in a satisfactory way? Here we have the in-casu thing about saying: there must be no flowering after-crops, for it is therefore still the bees and flowers that have a mutual attraction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131327	That's right. Now I am well aware that this may be the first after the EU has tightened up the rules and has, as a starting point, banned these neonics. But it's interesting to see if these exemption applications here are a normal practice. Is this something we want to see every year forward? Will there be these exemption applications so that a permit is given to continue spraying? Is that what we can expect? I would like to know if the Minister has an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131401-2	In that question too, Mr President, there is a premise that this is something. Søren Egge Rasmussen and I must stand in here and decide as politicians, and thus that there should be a disregard for the professionalism that I think should be put first and, as I mean, I think it is in this sense that it is the Danish Environmental Protection Agency that we should ask whether it is responsible to do this, whether this is a responsible derogation, rather than that we, who are in this way, at least for my own part, do not have the necessary insight into the use of pesticides and how to limit their potential harmful effects, should make that assessment. I think it is wise that we ask the Danish Environmental Protection Agency for it, and I think it is fine that you have a restrictive practice, because we know that if you just spray, for example. neonicotinoids in addition to the fields, it has a very, very damaging effect on the bees, but that is not what is at issue here. They are the picking of seed in small doses.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131501	Well, it's very possible that we have to ask a follow-up written question to unfold it here in terms of the extent to which an environmental assessment has taken place before the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has granted this exemption. Because if you read this through, it looks as if it is the agricultural assessment that has been very high in weight, and I think it is deeply regrettable if it is the case that we come to have a practice in Denmark where it is very easy to obtain derogations. After all, we had the case of rape, where it ended up with no derogation being granted, and that is why there is some interest in this beet growing, where a derogation can then be granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131540	The questioner for the final answer is sorry, it is the Minister for the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131541	Thank you. It would be very good if the questioner were allowed to answer at the end of the day that would give some exciting perspectives. I'm gonna ignore a written answer about how the procedure is at the Danish EPA, but I honestly think we should be happy that we have smart, skilled, well-educated people sitting in our Joint Environmental Protection Agency here in the country, who therefore takes this assessment seriously and ensures that we do not use this type of product in a way that is harmful and that ensures that we do not expose our bees to risks. We have also had a debate in Parliament on this, and I believe that the position of the government in this area is very, very clear, and otherwise I shall also be sending my speech if the message did not really stick. Anyway, I think it's a good thing that we have a board to deal with these things, and I'll be happy to answer how to do it in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131637	Thank you. The question is closed. We move on to the next question, and it is also to the Minister for the Environment and Food, and it is also to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131646	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131649	It is about the same problem: does the Minister believe that it is responsible to put short-term economic interests above the consideration for our insects, which are in decline?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131658	The minister for reply, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131659	The tempting answer here is simply to say no and then sit down again, but I would like to clarify it a little and say: no, I do not think so, and I do not think we do either. A derogation will only be granted if safe use can be shown. Furthermore, it is a prerequisite that there are no other reasonable methods, as it says, to combat a specific danger or threat to plant production or ecosystems. In practice, this will mean that there are no other effective treatment options. A derogation, as we talked about in the previous question, is a professional assessment by the Danish EPA, which also includes an agricultural assessment of alternative treatment options, including whether there is a risk of resistance using these alternatives. It is therefore not financial interests that are crucial, but it is a concrete professional assessment made by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, with input from the Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, which we also talked about before. As part of the strict exemption practice, the Danish Environmental Protection Agency now makes several requirements in relation to the exemption, which is intended to protect the bees and other pollinators. Both sowing and subsequent crops in the field are required to protect the bees from contamination of other plants with dust from sowing and against any residues of the stain in the soil affecting the bees in the subsequent crop. The Department of Agroecology, Aarhus University, agrees with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency's assessment, and they write in their contributions to the assessment and I quote: "A application to a non-flowering crop, where on the fields in question flowering crops may not be sown as after-crop or in the coming year, must be considered to have almost no effect on bees." Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131857	Then it's the questioner, first round.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116131859	Well, I guess economics is really important to what it is to a conclusion you come to. In the case of neoniks for oilseed rape, the assessment was that there were no rape buds every year. But there was also an economic assessment of a potential loss in large insect attacks, and that loss was not estimated to be as high as for beet. So it would really be nice to have an answer through a written question to clarify the economic situation. For the same conclusion would have been reached if it were a potential loss of DKK 500. per Acres a year? Maybe not. Here it is estimated that it can be a loss of between DKK 2,100. and DKK 2,500. per acres if it is the case that you are not allowed to pick up the beet seeds. And I'm pretty sure that the economy, when you take this agricultural assessment of it, is of great importance to what kind of conclusions you choose. I also find it interesting to see in the annexes here that there are different views on what the best crop rotation with beet is. It is my impression that there are some beet growers who really drive it to the border and grow beet every three years, but the annexes here show that there are researchers who actually recommend that there should be a crop rotation that is more varied and that there is a longer distance between the periods of beet cultivation so that the number of insects can be kept down to a greater extent. So this is not just a question of assessing whether spraying and the use of toxic substances are the right thing to do. There should be a broader agricultural approach to this, and I believe that there are a great many things that can be solved with a better crop rotation. That is what the ecologists have shown. Then the Minister cannot see that in this case it looks as if the economic value and potential loss per person. hectares are considerably larger than rape cultivation?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132109	If sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen asks if I can acknowledge that there is a difference between the two figures, Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned earlier, I can acknowledge that I am a mathematical student, though it is quite many years ago. In relation to the crop rotation and crop rotation, I can say that a written question has been asked about what Mrs Trine Torp of the SF is also coming over. However, it is true that it is already part of agricultural practice that in beet a crop rotation of 3-4 years is used to prevent the attack of terrestrial insects. There are some other things, that is flying insects, that it does not protect against in the same way. I shall return with a more detailed answer to the Scriptural question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132208	Well, this is where we see some cases where we easily get to stand where nature becomes the loser, and there are some who think that the economy in this shows that the pollinators' value in our agricultural sector can be estimated at approx. 1 billion kr. a year. I think that is essential to bear this in mind. There are, in fact, some values that are being created because we have insects out in our free nature, both those kept in boxes and those who live freely. I fear that environmental interests are not adequately safeguarded when there are major economic interests at stake in this beet growing. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132249	No, I don't see that. The figure of 1 billion - it is possible, the figure is calculated for it. I think that if we look at the overall social value of pollinators, we will see that it is not entirely possible to make up for money, because that is therefore one of the essential prerequisites for our having life here on the planet. So I don't think you should make up for that. That is my basic position on it, and I think the questioner also shares that view. But, in other words, when the researchers say that there is almost no effect on bees and other pollinators, I am leaning against it instead of some gut feeling with all due respect to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132337	Yes, we are where beet can also go in the first year and sort of put flowers, and if you don't remove those flowers, the flowers are out there. So nothing's for sure. I think that this case shows that there is every reason to follow up on what chemicals and pesticides are used in agriculture, and here we are dealing with some pesticides which have proved to be extremely harmful to our wild and tame bees. That is why I think that there is reason to follow up on this and we will come up with a few additional questions on the basis of the reply given by the Minister today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132416	The minister for the final answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132418	Yes, but excuse me: The whole premise for that, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen says here is wrong. They're not spray poisons. Yes, there is, but that's not how we use them. We don't use neonicotinoids as spray poisons because it's forbidden. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency can grant specific exemptions for the use which is the case here, where you work beet seed in low concentrations and do so under some measures, to ensure that it does not pose a risk to our pollinators. So we do not disagree with the whole talk that uh, these are dangerous pesticides; that's why we don't use them like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132458	Thank you. Then the question is closed and we thank the questioner. We move on to the next question, and it is to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mr. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132507	I give the floor to the author of the question for a reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132511	Thank you. The question is: Will the Minister comment on the article "Homløse André charged with breaking the zone ban" at www.tv2lorry.dk on 28 December 2018, including whether he considers it reasonable and in accordance with the intention of the law that a homeless person who has been sentenced to a zone ban should be 7 days in prison for drinking a cup of coffee with a friend while waiting for the bus?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132534	The minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132536	Thank you for the question. The questioner refers to a specific case which I do not think it is right to comment on, and I hope the questioner understands that. But this is not the first time we have discussed the issue of zone bans. I also spoke about the rules on zone bans in the consultation in December to which the questioner called me, and I made it clear that I am in favour of the rules we have put in place on zone bans, and I still do. In the summer of 2016 and 2017, we saw a very large influx of homeless people to Copenhagen from other countries. It marked the entire city image of our capital, and it created insecurity among the population. We took care of that problem. We introduced, among other things: a ban on insecure camps and the possibility of issuing zone bans. Those rules have worked. There are not the same problems in the streets of Copenhagen as we have seen in the past. That is why I still have no plans to change the rules. On the contrary, I believe that they work according to intention. If you have a zone ban, that means you must not stay in the municipality, and if you do, you have violated the ban, whether you drink coffee or what you do. If you have violated the ban, you have violated the ban. It is assumed in the preparatory work to the law that, in first cases, prison should be imposed for seven days as a starting point. I think that is fair. There has to be some deterrent effect in the rules. The way in which the rules have been applied in the specific case referred to by the honourable Member, I do not think, as I have said, that this will always be a concrete assessment in the individual case.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132716	The questioner, round one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132718	With previous legislation, we could easily remove some of the camps that I think the Minister is drawing as a great scaremonger. With previous legislation, we could easily remove those camps. As we also talked about in the consultation, so when we ask the people who are in the field when we ask the Church's Cross Army, who runs a heat room for foreign homeless people, then according to their censuses there are no fewer foreign homeless people. So the experience grows with the government's, what I think is a hetz on the homeless, and despite the fact that there will be no more, and it hits all Danish and foreign homeless very hard, I can understand that the government is apparently going to continue unsavory. On the other hand, it may well happen that the Minister then does not really experience those who are then here anymore. When we ask out in reality, it's because they're hiding. They're insanely scared. They are afraid to be caught by the police, they are even afraid to sleep alone, despite the fact that that is what could give them some security compared to if they were with others. But they are afraid, because even if they are lying alone in a corner of the city, they can also be convicted because of the zoning ban. In this particular case, André has been convicted or is likely to end up with an additional fine of DKK 2,000, six months further zone bans and seven days in prison. So he gets it because he's been waiting by the bus, not right next to the bus stop sign, but 25 metres away, where he happened to meet a friend who asked if he wanted a cup of coffee. Frankly, I think it seems very, very sloppy. Can the Minister please try to explain to me how far one must stand from a bus stop where one waits for the bus out of the municipality? Can you even have a cup of coffee? Can you bring a cup of coffee when you know it's 10 minutes till the bus leaves? I think it seems like a hetz, and I think it seems like a violent way of reacting to homeless people, who really just need the help of society based on their premises.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132919	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116132921	Thank you. The questioner asks a lot of questions, which I cannot answer in such a short time for good reasons. After all, we did not agree entirely with that consultation when we finished it in December. For me, it has nothing to do with being sloppy or being after someone; for me, it is about if we have legislation, then the law must be kept. Then we cannot say that it applies so to the chosen. Law is law, and law must be kept. I am very sorry about the situation that André and other Danish homeless people have come into because a number of foreign homeless people have fallen into Copenhagen and elsewhere. I'm sure Mr. Knox wouldn't mind. Rasmus Vestergaard Madsen remembers the insecurity it gave in the summer of 2016 and not least in 2017, when people really felt intimidated. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133011	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133013	But it is very good that the Minister is lamenting that there are homeless people who are affected by the legislation for which the Minister himself has been a banner leader. But does the Minister also believe that it was the intention of the law that homeless people like André should be sentenced to sleep in the street with a comrade, or that it should lead to other cases we have had, where the homeless have slept alone, even now that the consequence is that when you are actually in the municipality legally to pick up your medicine, on your way out you will be convicted of standing, yes, 25 metres from the bus stop? Is that really the way we treat homeless people? And is that the intention of the law for which the Minister has previously been a banner leader?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133054	That is at least the consequence of the law, and I think I have said many times that of course I am sorry that Danish homeless people are going to experience some consequences here because there are some foreign homeless people who come here and think that you should do aggressive begging on the streets and fill in our street picture etc. It is a concrete assessment, and I cannot decide it in relation to where you stand and how and how. Well, if you have a zone ban, you can't go there. Then it may be that you have to get your medicine and then you have to get out again. It is a concrete assessment that needs to be made. But it's a shame it's sad that it's where it's come to, but we had to solve a problem, and I haven't heard Enhedslisten's solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133140	Last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133142	The minister is steel-proof and he was also at our consultations back in December. I still find it deeply problematic that homeless people I have talked to themselves, both Danish and foreign, in this way should hetze and now should even end up in prison for having stood a few meters, and then no one should know how many others would want to know that too far from a bus stop. We're going to follow this case, and we're going to push until we get proper legislation, based on the homeless rather than just punishing them and sending them out of the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133219	Then that is the final answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133221	If we could then make an agreement that the questioner would contact his fellow party members at the City Hall in Copenhagen, then they could start to take an interest in doing something good for the Danish homeless, because then we could help along the way. But you'd rather have the mayor's office to bother people who drive a car than you want the mayor's job. The Enhedslisten could have done something about that. But let's fight together for good conditions for the homeless, the Danish homeless, I totally agree. We should just not open a gate to all the homeless from other countries of the European Union coming here and making aggressive begging on the streets and filling in our street picture. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133304	Thank you. And then the question is closed. The next question is to the Minister of Justice by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133312	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133315	Yeah, thanks for that. The question is: Will the Minister comply with Ishøj Municipality and the Housing Association AAB's wish to create legislative powers to establish video surveillance in the residential area of the Ågården in Ishøj Municipality, which has been exposed to a large number of car fires in recent times?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133335	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133336	Thank you for the question, which, of course, allows me to tell you more about the opportunities for television surveillance of residential areas that already exist today. I would like to begin by saying that the many car fires are simply an expression of totally unacceptable behaviour which should not be tolerated, and I can only agree that it should be stopped. There is already a possibility in the legislation that television surveillance of residential areas can be established. The police are thus able to monitor freely available places for the purpose of preventing and combating crime when it is objective and proportionate. In addition, housing organisations may set up television surveillance in residential areas after permission from the police. In addition, even after discussion with the police director, municipalities can also monitor areas close to an area watched by housing organisations, and I think that is the right solution, and I also think that there are a great many possibilities. I understand, then, that the housing association in the specific case has not approached the police regarding the possibility of setting up video surveillance, but I understand that the police have gone into dialogue with the housing association, including setting up video surveillance. In addition, the police have a large number of other tools that can be used if there is unrest in residential areas: it may be increased patrolling, the use of mobile police stations and other things. It is, of course, my clear expectation that the police will consider whether security-building measures can be taken in the area so that citizens do not feel insecure, because no one can be served with that. However, as has been said, there are actually a great many possibilities in the legislation, and I am glad that the police have made contact so that we can hopefully set up some cameras if necessary and that will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133522	The Minister of Justice is certainly right that there is enough need, and unfortunately it is not only in the municipality of Ishøj that we have that need. Those of us who live in the West know at least that the burning of cars is no longer a special sight, it is something we experience on a regular basis. It is not long since there were car burns in Tybjergparken in Brøndby, there have been problems in Albertslund, among others. in the Fishermen's Houses and in the Key's Quarter and elsewhere, so it is a very big problem in the West. That is why it seems rather tedious to have chosen the procedure, that it is something that the police must either initiate or authorize, because such a need to monitor can be very rapid. If there are first some punks moving into the neighborhood or looking mad at some people who live in an area, for example, it may be a need that arises very, very quickly. I do not know how quickly the police can make such a decision to monitor, but I just have the impression that it is relatively cumbersome, also in view of the fact that AAB itself has approached the press about this case and has told about their hardships. So I just wanted to hear the Minister if you could make it a little simpler so that the housing associations themselves have the opportunity to make the decision to set up such video surveillance.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133657	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133658	I have had the pleasure of discussing this several times with the author's party colleague, Mr. Peter Kofod, and I have to do that a little later today. On the subject of who decides whether to set up cameras, I would like to say that we have actually provided housing organisations with better tools than others, because if there is a need, they will not have to wait until there is a budget for it in the police force, as they can pay for it themselves if they want to. So I actually think there are quite simple methods, but it is perhaps very good that we have that discussion here so that people can hear that it is possible to turn to them. Now the police have approached the housing organization, and then I agree that, of course, a quick decision needs to be taken. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133745	Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133746	There are still some things that puzzle me. For example: After all, a company has the right to monitor its own territory, and in a private home you also have the right to monitor your front garden, etc., but why does the same not really apply to a housing association or housing organisation? After all, it is in many ways, I think, similar to a family or a company. Why can one not similarly have the right to monitor one's own territory without involving the police in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133822	I very, very much agree that being able to protect your home is absolutely essential in a society and that being able to keep outsiders from the door is very important. The challenge in a housing association is that you have the individual buildings where people live, but otherwise the area is a public area. And I think there is a fundamental discussion, which I have also had the pleasure of discussing with Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod, namely about municipalities and housing companies and everyone else just can put cameras up on public property whenever they want. I think that there is at least some principle in what we, as legal politicians here in Denmark, have to decide, namely whether we can do it. I actually think there are quick and simple ways to get this done if it's a serious situation. And I like to say that the police are aware of this in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133911	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133912	I understand, of course, what the Minister is saying, but may I not draw attention to the fact that if you take places like Ishøj City Centre, Rødovre Centre or Albertslund Centre, it is of course shop arcades that are monitored and that are really similar to public space. Albertslund Centre are streets that you move around in, and they are not covered or anything. It seems to be a good place to monitor, but you can't do it in a housing association. I simply find it difficult to distinguish between the two.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116133947	I can quickly be answerable to the individual store areas and arcades. People may be allowed to have a camera at their store, and then it's a little bit about how that camera turns and so on. We have had some discussions about that too. Besides, there's been a project on how the police can access these cameras, but it's another discussion. I just think there is something in principle that we can say about public space that there can be supervision, but that there are rules for it. There is a principle that if the police say you can set it up, you can do it. In fact, I believe that with the agreements that have been concluded in recent years in connection with the Finance Act and elsewhere, we have come very, very far with monitoring. And with regard to the specific housing association in which the police have made contact, I have the hope that it will soon work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134035	Thank you. This question is over, but there's a new question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134042	Here you go, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134044	Thank you. If the Minister does not believe that the Housing Association AAB and Ishøj Municipality should have legislative powers to establish video surveillance in the residential area of Ågården in Ishøj, what proposals does the Minister have on how to eliminate the many car fires that have affected the area, and what does the Minister intend to do to increase the security of citizens in the area concerned?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134102	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134103	Thank you, too. Thank you for that question. As I have just mentioned, in reply to Question No 1, I would like to point out that the Commission is not in a position to reply to the honourable Member's question. S 373, then, I believe that today there are sufficient legislative possibilities for establishing television surveillance of residential areas. What is crucial, as I said before, is that the police react quickly if they are approached by a housing association that wants video surveillance. And, as I have said, I understand that in the specific case the housing association has not approached the police regarding the setting up of video surveillance, but I understand that the police have gone into dialogue with the housing association, including setting up video surveillance, because there could be other things that should be looked at in this context in the area. In addition, the police have a large number of tools that I mentioned before. Of course, they will be considered, and it is of course my expectation that the police will consider what efforts are needed to create security so that people can feel safe. In fact, when it comes to video surveillance and housing companies, I think we are quite well in place, as I also mentioned a little in the previous question. There are opportunities, even for them to pay for themselves. They should not even ask the police if they have an allowance for it if the police say that for security-building and crime-fighting reasons they must hang video cameras. We have to say there without my being an interpreter of what it is that if there are car fires and other things, it is crime-fighting to hang cameras. So there I have a good feeling that it can get a really good dialogue about • also quickly between the housing company and the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134233	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134234	At any rate, it is enormously insecure for citizens that cars are being burned off in front of their homes, and I certainly think that this is an evil that we must put to death. In fact, as far as Ishøj is concerned, many monstrous things happened, including during New Year's Eve, when fireworks were shot off at the Wilderness Path at Circle K in Ishøj. And in general, there are a lot of problems out there. It's just that I'm saying that I think it's a bit bureaucratic that you have this requirement to contact the police and get permission from the police to set up this video surveillance. So, basically, I think that there are very, very many areas in the West in the non-profit residential areas where you actually want this permission. If the Minister were prepared to grant such a general authorisation, I believe that there would be a great many cameras in our residential neighbourhoods, and that would help to strengthen security. For security measurements made in the area, among others. In Brøndby Beach, security measurements are not overwhelming. There is a relatively high level of security, but if you see it in relation to security measurements elsewhere in the country, it is actually very, very low. I just think that, as politicians, we have a duty to ensure that these people can live their lives in a sense of security and security. That is why I find it rather difficult to understand that the Minister will not give this general permission if you now, for example. If you own a mall, you can monitor it. Well, then, why shouldn't you be able to monitor a housing association if the members of the housing association think it's a really good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134428	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134429	There must be a difference between whether you are in a private area or on public roads. I could be a little polemical about that, maybe I could be accused of being • and say: if you just gave it permission to the housing organizations, that is, that they could just set up surveillance if they wanted to, could you imagine that some of the housing companies could get some boards with a chairman or be run by some who might have an interest in setting up some cameras for other reasons? It could also be that there were some people who would like to keep an eye on, that is, that there was a little social control to be carried out. I think the questioner and I quite agree that we have some problems in certain residential areas, including perhaps some types of people who come up with quite different values and standards than both the questioner and I like. So we should also be careful what we are opening up to, just like that, as part of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134518	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134519	This simply underlines the need to show up when there is a meeting of the housing association and when a new board is to be elected, so that you have the right people elected and not someone who wants to abolish Christmas trees or set up surveillance to carry out social checks. Having said that, I am just confident, as a starting point, that the housing associations that we have, who have expressed a desire to get these things right, are also doing so on the basis of a reasonable demand. And when you experience these insecure elements that we experience constantly and constantly we don't see burning cars every day, but we're experiencing insecure elements in this area... why is it that the minister is still hanging a little bit in the brake?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134601	I do not know whether I am hanging on the brakes, because I believe that the questioner and the author's party and I do not disagree very much about this on the long stretch. It is, of course, just the principle of whether you should get the police in and say that there is a good chance of monitoring the issues that now need to be monitored, or can you just do so at will? I would like to hear it if I am wrong, because I am not aware that we have housing organisations anywhere in the country that have asked for surveillance and where they have said no. It may be that there is, but I am just not aware that it should take place where you are really challenged for security, because of course people must be able to be safe in their residential area, and video surveillance is a very good tool for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134644	Thank you. The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134647	I don't know if anyone's got a no to this either. I just think it's a rather laborious way to do it, and I still don't understand that distinction between a mall and something else. If you imagine a mall located in a residential area there are the shops in the residential area down below, and then there are floor properties that you have to monitor, or are you not allowed to monitor? If the basic plan is part of a mall and what's above isn't, then you can, or what? I just think that there are some distinctions there that are going to be a little loose in the joints. But I do acknowledge that it is good that in this particular case there has now apparently been a request which might enable us to achieve the desired result.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134729	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134730	Let us hope that this will be a shared joy. If nothing else, I also hope that this exchange of views and dialogue has in any case led to the emphasis being placed on the importance of video surveillance. And now, of course, we have also sent out a signal that there are, in fact, extended opportunities in the legislation for housing associations. So if you think you have a challenge with security, make contact with the police and have that dialogue so that we can make it safe for people to live in vulnerable residential areas as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134800	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Justice, and that is what Mr. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134807	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134810	Thank you. Does the Minister think that there may be a need for more video surveillance of the public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116134821	Thank you for the question. If anyone is in doubt, at least in today's Question Time with questions to the Ministers, the Danish People's Party has been stressed that this is an area that is very much being taken into account. That is good, because I would like to begin by replying yes to the question. I therefore believe that there may be a need for more television surveillance of the public space. All we have to do is find the balance and avoid unnecessary television surveillance of the public space. And that's where the balance lies. Against this background, as the questioner is also aware, I sent a legislative proposal in consultation on 21 December 2018, which among others. to amend the TV watching law. The proposal calls for an extension of the right to television surveillance of public spaces in certain cases. It is proposed, for example, that there should be an extension of the scope for operators legally able to monitor certain situations. It also proposes the introduction of access for the police to allow private persons to carry out television surveillance in specific cases. With the legislative proposal and the current rules, there will be a wide range of opportunities in my optics for television surveillance of public space. I assume, in the light of the statements made by the author in the press, that the questioner also wants to hear about the access of municipalities to television surveillance. In accordance with the rules in force, municipalities already have certain opportunities to conduct television surveillance of the public space. The municipalities can, among other things: under certain conditions, television monitors in close association with areas watched by residential organisations authorised by the police. And in the bill I submitted in consultation in December, there is no provision for changing those options. I think this is the right balance, and it should be seen in the light of the fact that the agreement on the Financial Act for 2019 again, as in 2018, at the request of the Danish People's Party, provides a pool for police circles for video surveillance of places where there is a need for special security-building efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135023	Here's the questioner, sir. Peter Kofod.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135025	Thank you. There are good things in the Minister's answer and there are less good things. The good thing is that the Minister answers clearly that yes, there must be more video surveillance of the public space. It's kind of pleasurable. I agree with that. That's the good thing. Then there's the thing that I may have a little measured feeling about, and that's the bill that the government is now bringing in. It's okay, you go down the road. One of the things I see as the challenge in what the government brings is that you don't go much further. I mean, it's such a bill where you say that yes, on the one hand you want to, and on the other hand there's so much insurance. I could also imagine that there are such liberal branches of government that have some religious scepticism about video surveillance of public space, which I have never quite understood. But one of the things that may surprise me is that when you look at the municipal surveillance and some of what we have been discussing for several years after there has been a desire from some municipalities, which we have had to help out temporarily from the problems they had, where they could not be allowed to set up video surveillance and we had to go in and finance it from the Finance Act so that the police could put it up then you wouldn't solve that problem. As I understand the bill, you don't solve that problem all the way. It is based on the fact that we still have some goodwill from in here and then say that we have to compensate for the lack of solution through the police, instead of letting the municipalities deal with it and solve their problems themselves, in other words having a good public debate in the municipalities and the city councils about it themselves. You park it then. And I think that's too bad. I find that incredibly regrettable. But now the time has come for me to ask a question, and what I would like to hear about is whether the Minister, with the proposal here, thinks that the problems of the wild west conditions currently prevailing in the field of surveillance are being solved. I believe that if you go down through Copenhagen, you will see a very, very large overweight of cameras that, for reasonable reasons, may not be entirely in line with the rules of the law. In the view of the Minister, are the government's proposals going to solve the problems that exist today?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135235	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135236	We must be careful, as a minister, always to answer such a question very clearly, i.e. whether we have solved all the problems. At any rate, I think we are getting a good deal along the way, and the questioner is also aware of the pilot project that has been running, about what we are really getting access to these cameras. And if you record that those cameras aren't quite right, you say, of course, that it has to be corrected. I actually think we can boil this down to the fact that we agree on the possibility of video surveillance far along the way and that it is good, but our paths are divided by who should be allowed to do so. Is it the municipalities, or do the police have to come right over? I can say a lot more about it, but I can see that my time has passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135315	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135317	Then I would like to ask you about the part of the bill that concerns the private sector. Would the Minister clearly describe what has been proposed in the draft law, namely an extension of the possibility for private individuals to use video surveillance as far-reaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135335	No, I don't think I will. I have to be honest and say that the details of the bill are not at the forefront of my pandle app when I'm asked. But no, I do not think that the government is proposing anything that goes far. Then you can ask what far-reaching means and it may be a very pissed-off debate on words, but I think that, as I hear a little from Mr. Peter Kofod that the bill is heading in the right direction. Then the Danish People's Party just thinks that we could have gone a little further, but I think it is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135406	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135408	As far as this issue is concerned, it would have been a good word. It would have been very positive if it had gone far, but it is probably not. So let me ask you something else: does the Minister think that this bill, if it were implemented in its current form, would be something that would significantly help the police to have more cameras put into the camera register that you are working hard on? After all, there have been difficulties in getting cameras put in, and there have been many reasons why it is likely that many of the cameras you want are illegal. So does the Minister think that the bill here will remedy that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135442	Here you go, last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135443	I basically think that there are many possibilities in this and I believe, as I said, that it brings us a long way along the road. I also just need to say something about it about the municipalities because I can't come back to it later. I have also been the mayor and I can hear that some municipalities will say: we have to pay for it, but what if we cannot afford it? Then only municipalities with money can get security. I like the fact that it's the police who decide on it, and then you can hang cameras on the cops' bill. And then I am glad that we agree to place extra money on the budget, so that it is certainly not the money that prevents us from getting some cameras up.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135523	Thank you. Then that's the end of the question. There's a new question for the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135533	Sir. Peter Kofod, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135536	Thank you. What is the Minister's view of the value of the often expensive consultant reports used in the minister's area of responsibility, and does the Minister believe that new consultant reports are necessary prior to the conclusion of a multi-year agreement for the police and prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135549	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135550	Thank you. It is my approach that when we use external consultants in the Ministry of Justice's field, we first need to think carefully. And when we choose to use external consultants, it has to be because there is a special need for the competences and perspectives that external consultants can provide. It can, for example, be done. be in situations where an external view and external assessment are required. In addition, it is absolutely crucial for me that there should be a thorough professional assessment of whether the proposals that have come from the consultants are realistic and implementable when we, as politicians and not least the officials in the central administration, have to translate the consultants' report into reality. In relation to the preparation of a new multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecutor's office, the government has decided that an analysis should be carried out with the assistance of external consultants. We have chosen to do this so that the analysis must be based on the analyses previously carried out by the police. So let's not repeat the analyses that have already been made. And then we have chosen, above all, that the analysis should be carried out with a view to the major changes that the police have, therefore, it is crucial that the analysis focuses on concrete and implementable initiatives. For the same reason, the work must be carried out in close cooperation with the police and prosecutor's office. As I said, the use of external consultants must be wise and with a keen eye on the fact that the recommendations make sense in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135726	Thank you. And we're about to stop that very loud buzzing sound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135733	Thank you. Now I have been in the Folketing for 3 years, and if anything has given me a new allergy, it is consultant reports. I'm just so tired of them. They are expensive; they are often not very clever to listen to; they bear the impression that there has been some tyranny towards our employees, where somebody has stood with some stopwatch and found out that it takes so many seconds to find something in the printer, and could you have spent that time better? And after I asked the question here today, someone related to a nurse who told me that there had been a consultant to find out how to do it more effectively in another area, namely in the health sector, and who had suggested that rubber gloves should be taken in a different way. I am so tired of consulting reports, and I often think that they are a bad excuse for politicians not to sit down and think some thoughts that reach out in the future, something more visionary, something about what we really want. This is also true in the area of justice, as it is when it comes to our police and prosecutor's office. Then you order some consultant reports, and then it's also a way for the Ministry of Finance to keep a leash in that process. Then perhaps we will avoid a broader, longer and more in-depth discussion about what the situation is like in the part that is very important, namely our police, and how we can resolve the problems that exist. That is why I am sorry that a new analysis has already been set in motion before the agreement to be concluded later this year. However, I would like to start by asking the Minister whether the analysis commissioned by the Minister suggests that the police and the prosecution should be made more effective, because I do not think that is the time. Did you set this thing in motion because it just needs to be cut back to your leg?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135927	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116135928	I would like to say first of all that I can at times share the questioner's allergies and his thoughts on how we use these reports and how much it should be, because there must also be room for common sense. Having said that, I can say two things. One is that no target has been set for any savings or efficiency gains. The second is that it is simply to get smarter and come all around and see if we can do things differently. I think that is very wise to do. When we made the D.C. agreement, I thought it was very good to do it. When we looked at defense attorneys and their counsellors and the supervision of them, it was probably also very good that we got a report on it. So it can also be used for something sensible if we do it right. It just shouldn't be truth one.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140014	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140016	One of the things I miss is that we spend some more energy getting some professional recordings from everyday experts. In our case, it would be police officers, prison officers, HKs, and it could be others working in this area. And I would like to ask the Minister if that is not what we should be doing instead of just doing some kind of analysis. Then you should ask out there if you can put forward some good proposals and come up with some ideas on how to organise the work differently. Wouldn't that be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140046	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140048	Well, I think it should also be done in the daily work. So, I believe that the whole way we organise ourselves in Denmark, also in the public sector, in large organisations, must be the case that you also stick your finger in the ground with the staff and discuss with them what the possibilities are here if we are to do things in a different way. I think it is important that there is pressure, also sanctioned by us politicians, when, of course, we have to spend all the money we have in the best possible way, but that should not stop us from sticking our finger in the ground and asking the people who are sitting with it on a daily basis. I think that is the whole prerequisite for this to be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140123	Thank you, and then the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140125	Then I would just like to finish by asking the Minister what the analysis that has been set in motion will cost. How much does it cost to get a round like this done?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140135	It's in supply, so I don't know. It has to be put out to tender; we know that. Then we'll see how much it costs. However, I would like to stress that I think it is good to have it when you make a multi-year agreement in such a large area as the police and prosecutor's office. I don't know where manpower and power should be to do it, so I think we should ask someone to do it. However, we must set the framework for this, and not least, when negotiating the agreement, we must say what we want and do not want. And then I welcome the fact that it has been agreed that there is no objective for money to be found and no action should be taken on existing projects that are in the process of being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140210	Thank you for that and the question is closed. The next question (pm. No. S 392) is addressed to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs by Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140218	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140223	Will the Minister explain whether she is still standing at the following quote from 2017 or whether she has just changed her position/stand point: As rapporteur, my position has been very clear: that prostitution is not an ordinary profession, cannot be equated, and that is also my position today as Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140241	Well, I can answer that very briefly, and that is a yes, that is still my position today. We could then just leave it at that, but I would like to clarify and say that I assume that it is because the questioner has had a renewed interest in the matter, because the government has just set up an inter-ministerial working group which, like it, has to look at the situation of the citizens of prostitution. It has been very important for me to look at how we can improve the conditions for people in prostitution and ensure that for those who want to leave prostitution, when they have the opportunity to do so, this can also be done. So it is a matter of priority to ensure that more people come out of prostitution and that we ensure better conditions, and that is why I am now delighted that we have this working group to look at this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140328	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find it a little difficult to understand what the Minister thinks, and it is fair enough to have changed to some things. The minister writes in 2012 and 2013 on his Facebook: Rights in the labour market to the prostitutes are social policy. And: Give prostitutes rights in the labour market like everyone else here in Denmark. This must mean that it is a similar profession, in other words where you have the right to have trainees, where you have the right to receive wage subsidies, etc. Can the Minister not explain to me whether the Minister thinks the same as the Minister thought earlier, before the Minister became a minister, or does the Minister have a slightly different attitude than that it should not be exactly equated? If you have the same rights as everyone else in the labour market, that is what we have heard from the Liberal Alliance, that is, the coalition partner of the government, saying that it is as good as working in office as working in prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140416	My position is exactly the same as last time that I was asked, and that is that prostitution is not an ordinary profession, nor should it be and cannot be equated with other professions, but that does not mean that we cannot use tools and levers from other professions to improve conditions for those who are in prostitution, and that is one of the things that that working group will have to look at in the coming months. We can then stand here and have such a word game about what was said back in 2017 and back in 2012, but I would actually instead encourage the Social Democracy to get on the ground in relation to the substance, because there are a number of citizens who are today faced with a very, very challenging everyday life and who need us to start looking after them and that we ensure them better conditions in order to get them out of prostitution as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140501	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140502	That's probably because we look at prostitution very differently. Social democracy sees prostitution as something that is harmful to the individual woman, and that is why it is very important whether it should be treated in the same way as other professions. Because if you have exactly the same right, if you are a prostitute or if you have a brothel, you have the right to have trainees above a certain age limit, then you have the right to make advertisements, then you have the right to anything else. That is just what I am asking the Minister, and then I do not care what the working party in question is going to do; I ask the Minister. And when the minister has a party in the government that says that it is as good to work in an office as it is to be a prostitute, then I think most Danes do not feel that way if it was their own daughter or sister. So I ask the Minister again: are these exactly the same rights to be granted? I think that is very important and what should not be the right if, for example, we do not have the right to do so. run a brothel?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140547	I think the questioner should read the terms of reference and see that it is precisely not like a normal profession, nor is it normalisation. To be in prostitution is not a normal profession. So I think it is a ridicule to start asking the question whether my own children, for example, should internship, as Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil did, or was it still not quite so normal? Let me just quote Sofie Brandvarm, who presents himself as a Danish sex worker, and as in a reply to Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil says: Like Mai Mercado, I agree that sex work never comes into line with other professions, but it is not the intention either, the debate is about basic rights and not absurd scenarios that are out of proportion to reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140633	It's a little difficult when the minister doesn't want to hear what I'm saying. I didn't ask the Minister to deal with his own children at all. I said that I do not think most people feel like the Liberal Alliance, so it is as good to work in an office as it is to work in prostitution. That is why I ask whether the Minister is aware of the harmful effects of prostitution. After all, the minister can always find some prostitute who likes his profession, but there are also many others, among others. in Copenhagen, which goes to the crisis centre because they have been in prostitution. That is what I am asking the Minister to take seriously and to promise that it should not be equated with other things, and the Minister has just said that earlier, both in 2012 and 2013, on his Facebook, and therefore I ask. Having said that, I think you should stand by it. Then it is fine to have a different attitude, and it is not even to be funny, but I am after the Minister because the Minister has had this position in the past. That is why I think it is very important what the Minister thinks and not what a committee arrives at.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140721	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140721-2	But it's gonna be fun. As the two of us can stand and have a discussion about words, and when I have said clearly several times, this is now the third time, that it is not a common profession, what does Social Democracy do? They're doing absolutely nothing. What we have set up a group for is precisely to look at how we improve conditions, also with a view to getting more people out of prostitution and where we can help with the damage, while social democracy does nothing and has no response to those who are in prostitution today. We provide answers, we provide action. The only thing the Social Democratic Party is delivering is a gauntlet of words in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140759	Thank you. That concludes the question. Then there is a new question, and it is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration by Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140810	Thank you, President. The question is as follows: what can the government say about the possibility of having rejected Iranian asylum seekers sent back to Iran, including whether the recently adopted EU sanctions as a response to planned assassinations in Denmark affect the process?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140828	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140830	It is true that the European Union has imposed targeted sanctions on those who were responsible for Iran's totally unacceptable behaviour here in Denmark. This does not change the fact that we continue to cooperate with Iran in other areas, and I think that is also very clearly illustrated by the continued support of the European Union and also Denmark for the nuclear agreement. After all, it is no secret that cooperation with Iran in the field of broadcasting has been very difficult for a long time. Iran therefore does not want to cooperate in the forced repatriation of rejected asylum seekers from Iran. This does not, of course, alter the fact that the government is continuing to work to ensure that a basis is created for carrying out forced broadcasts to Iran. In addition, the government is working to increase the number of rejected asylum seekers from Iran who leave voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140938	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116140939	I really think that many people are wondering why it should be so difficult to send people back to their own country and that it should be so difficult to get the respective countries, such as Iran and Iraq, to receive their own citizens. I think, in some way, it is a little, not to say very monstrous, that we are in a debate every time when it is a question of us, like, having to take the doll, in relation to what we can afford, while those damned states cannot even take their own citizens back. I want to know if there are any initiatives in place to reverse this process so that these countries will receive them.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141035-2	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe in that it is then unacceptable that countries do not accept their own nationals unless they leave voluntarily, and that is what you can say, that Denmark is some kind of roof-top table or at least an attempt to do so, so if you do not want to leave, you also have a guarantee that you will not be admitted to the country you originally come from, and that is unacceptable. This is why we have the exit centres, both Soulsmark and Kærshovedård, and in the future Lindholm. It's to put pressure on these people. So, yes, something is being done at home. But something is also being done in relation to the countries. Among other things: As far as Iran is concerned, we now have an attaché sitting in Tehran, and we also have that in other countries that do nothing but work on sending these people out, and I can also say that I am spending more and more of my time just making such agreements. With Iran it is so little difficult for several reasons
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141136	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141138	After all, there is a specific difference between me and the Minister, and that is that the Minister can make things happen in a way that I cannot. I can help to pass some laws and promote some things, but exactly in relation to this agenda, I think it is absolutely crucial that a government like the Danish government really takes care to start expelling these people. Because I would say that one can start by saying that they are not welcome here and then send them out of the country, and then say to Iran that cooperation with Iran will depend on whether they accept their own citizens, just as one could say that the support we give to Iraq in terms of rebuilding the country depends, of course, on their taking back their own citizens. I think that must be a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141231	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141232	After all, the part dealing with development aid is relevant to some countries. Compared with other countries, this is not relevant because they do not receive foreign aid. Then there may be something about trade agreements, and there may again be something about visa policy, and I would say that I think we should use all the tools at all. But now, in fact, I sometimes travel in some of these countries. As you know, Iran is a problem for several reasons, and they have then cancelled a meeting with me at some point for other, but also very fundamental, reasons. Having said that, I can guarantee that we are working on all fronts, both in terms of cooperating with the countries on this, but also in terms of subsidies and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141322	Thank you. We have one more question, which is the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141323	Yeah, it's okay, I'll use that. It is just fair that there should be no doubt about it, because I do believe that the only ones capable of solving the current problems are the nation state and the nation states of Europe. You have to solve the problems yourself. For European cooperation is obviously so much a talking club where nothing really happens, after all. I just think it should be possible to say with regard to Iran that cooperation with them will be interrupted if they do not want to withdraw their own citizens. It's quite elementary.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141408	Here you go for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141408-2	I would say that everything is at stake when it comes to sending home citizens who are not entitled to be in Denmark, but of course it is also some kind of diplomatic balance every time. However, it may be both trying to persuade people to go home voluntarily; it may be putting pressure on those people; we do so in relation to the exit centres, where it has always been our decision that it should not be nice to be at an exit centre; it is precisely a place that should motivate someone to go home instead; and then it may be in relation to the work with the countries concerned, including Iran, where sanctions can be applied both in relation to, for example, refusal of visas and other things. And as Mr. Christian Langballe himself also mentioned, in relation to some countries it may be the aid from the developing countries that can be used as a means of exerting pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141505	Thank you. The question is closed. The next question is to the Minister for Health by Mr. Simon Kollerup, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141511	Go ahead and read.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141512	Does the Minister believe that there is a need for initiatives to reverse the sad statistics that say that Morsø Municipality is the municipality of North Jutland where the highest proportion of citizens over 18 years of age have a psychiatric diagnosis, cf. The article "Morsø" is the municipality of North Jutland with the most mentally ill people in TV 2 Nord on 8 January 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141539	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141540	Thank you for the question. Yes, I believe there is a need to initiate initiatives to alleviate the increase in the number of people with mental problems. And that is also one of the reasons why the government launched a new psychiatry action plan in the autumn, where we set aside more than 2.1 billion. kr. additional to raise efforts in the field of psychiatry action plan with 43 concrete initiatives across a number of ministerial areas in order to ensure a holistic approach to people with mental disorders. Unfortunately, there was no support from the author's party and from other parties in the Folketing for all of the initiatives, but I am pleased that we have, fortunately, received support to launch a number of initiatives, including initiatives for the previous preventive action against children and young people in particular, where, unfortunately, in these years, we are seeing a worrying tendency towards the mental distress of many more children and young people. It is important to slow down this development. It is important to ensure that more children and young people receive an early preventive offer, so that we make sure that we help them in time. It is also important that it is not the postal number that determines what the offer is. And that is also the reason why, with the Psychiatry Action Plan, we set aside just under 100 million. kr. per year in permanent means of extending and continuing the psychological system of anxiety and depression, because we know that with the psychological system we reach all the municipalities of the country, to all the citizens who may need help. We have also set aside money to strengthen the PPR. We've set aside money to spread headspace. We have set aside money to strengthen efforts in general for children and young people and people with mental disorders. And then, with the rate pool from last year, we have set aside money to make advanced functions in children's and young people's psychiatry, so that we can strengthen the cooperation between municipal efforts in the field and preventive action and then what happens in treatment psychiatry. And it will also benefit people at Mother's. And today we have also presented a new health reform which will also strengthen close health throughout the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141749	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141750	Thank you for that and thank you for that detailed answer. When I raise the matter here in the way I do, it is of course because it worries me that things are going as fast as they have been in the years we have been looking at. In 5 years, the number of adults with psychiatric diagnosis/disease increased by 22 per cent. That's a lot, a lot. Five years ago, 15 of the country's municipalities, with over 5%, had such a diagnosis. Today it is not 15 municipalities that have reversed the figure, and it is 51 per cent, that is more than half of the country's municipalities. I am aware of the various things that have been put in place, but I cannot help wondering whether it is enough, whether it is enough, whether it is what makes the curves break, and whether the Minister and the government have a plan for the curves to start going down again, and that the figures may have gone back in five years, so it is 15 municipalities that have over 5%. with a psychiatric diagnosis. In any case, I think it is important that we in the Danish Parliament signal very clearly that a mental illness, a mental illness, is not something to stand alone with and that there is a responsibility in this Parliament. When the minister mentions it with the postal numbers, it starts to get interesting for Mother's example. Which of the Minister's initiatives is it that will be specifically noticed at Mors? Now you are wrapping it into health reform and something with the close health care, etc., but where is it that psychiatric treatment and the response to psychiatric disorders will be felt in concrete terms on Mother's? I think there are many who would like answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141936	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116141937	Well, it is, among other things, that we have set aside money to make an advance effort, especially in the area of children and young people, which will also be anchored in North Jutland, in relation to binding the offers that lie in the treatment psychiatry, closer together with the offers that lie out in the municipalities. We have taken a large number of initiatives with the Psychiatry Action Plan, which also benefits citizens at Mother's, because we need to create equal access to our healthcare. I know and can hear that, as has already been said, the Social Democratic Party should do nothing to reform our health services, but the health reform that we have put forward today will also provide us with a proximity fund of 6 billion. kr., which we can invest in new modern health houses, where we also integrate the psychiatry more, just as we know it from the Psychiatry House in Silkeborg, and which we can spread out to other municipalities in the country to help people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142028	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner. You can continue the answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142031	Thank you. It is not true that the Social Democrats do not want to reform health care. That is why, in our own health policy initiative, we are proposing to increase the time available to staff to carry out proper and good health care. That is why we propose to strengthen the proximity of our healthcare system. And what the government is doing as the overriding thing today is to abolish the regional councils which have so much benefited Mors and Thy in the Danish health care system. So I think you have to be careful about shooting too big cannons. What I would like to ask the Minister is: Does the Minister expect the initiatives that have now been adopted to be enough and that the curves will break and go down again?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142113	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142113-2	The strengthening of psychiatry in Denmark is a long, cool move. That is what we said when we presented the Psychiatry Action Plan. We have put forward some pointers towards 2025, which is that we need to reverse the curve and ensure that there are fewer children and young people who mistrust mentally. This means a great deal with the economic boost we have made of more than 2.1 billion. kr., but it doesn't bring us to the goal of the health reform we have presented today, which will also create a strong health community around Mother's and Thisted. And for the 17-year-old girl, for example, who is discharged from the treatment psychiatrist and who ends up a little like a throwing ball between the municipality and the region, we need to ensure much better cooperation so that we both prevent more, but also ensure that people with mental disorders experience a greater connection in their treatment. This is creating more proximity and quality in our healthcare system, and this is very much what we are going to invest money in with the health reform and also with the psychiatry action plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142204	Thank you. Then there is a new question, and it is to the Minister of Education by Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142220	Thank you, President. The question is: What is the government's position on banning religious headgear for schoolteachers, and will the government, if necessary, arrange for a ban to enter into force from 1 August 2019?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142234	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142235	I will start by stating that the government does not plan to impose a ban on religious headgear at school. Generally speaking, it is important for the teacher to appear as a professional and educational competent authority person who can take care of the professional development of the pupils and who can advise them and support them in their general development and character formation. This means that teachers are basically expected to know and respect the laws on which our society is built. Every teacher is allowed to have his own political and religious beliefs, but as a teacher he must be expected to respect the constitution and freedoms. That follows, for example. of the decorum required for the teacher at all times. In the last session of this House we discussed a proposal to ban distinctive religious symbols, including religious helmets, it was B 58 and I interpret it as such that the questioner continues to want it to be allowed to carry small religious symbols such as a cross, a david star or a crescent moon, for example. in the neck or ear pendant. According to the European Convention on Human Rights, such restrictions on the practice of religion can only be made if they result from law and are necessary in a democratic society for reasons worthy of recognition, such as: the need to protect the rights or freedoms of others. The government believes that teachers, when teaching, should appear neutral and be objective to the pupils. That consideration must be regarded as worthy of recognition and can justify a restriction on freedom of religion within the meaning of Article 9 of the Convention. In other words, the ban will only include significant religious symbols, and therefore it will in practice be certain beliefs that are affected. Such discrimination between religions requires objective consideration. A ban on religious headgear also raises questions about the constitutional ban on discrimination based on religion. A ban would therefore require a more detailed legal assessment. The Government has no plans to ban religious headgear for school teachers with entry into force from August 2019. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142450	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142451	I had no idea it wasn't something the government was planning. But I am going to raise the matter anyway, because I actually consider it important. What we are discussing here is the veil at school. That is what we are talking about and I think that the veil is a symbol of women's oppression and a symbol of Islamism which unfortunately has gripped Europe. That is why I believe that there would be a good and objective reason for saying that it is not something that teachers should wear when teaching children. I think that would be reasonable, just as I am actually in favour of such things as halal food not being made such a normal phenomenon in the Danish institutions, on the understanding that it should not be a religious notion of purity that dictates how to do things in institutions and schools respectively. I would like to ask the Minister whether he cannot explain to me why it would be discrimination to ban the veil, as long as it is discrimination in itself. So it's an attempt to counteract discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142626	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142627	I guess that's not exactly what I said either. What I said was that if you want to test whether such a ban can be imposed, you have to ask the Ministry of Justice to make a proper legal assessment of it. That was the legal part of what I find it difficult to go down much more. Then there is the educational part of it, decorum requirements, etc., which is more part of the educational world. And there I would like to say that I would recommend teachers in general not to put on very clear symbols in school showing their political or religious position. It would be my recommendation that you should not wear a Che Guevara T-shirt or a scarf or anything else, but that when you enter a classroom, you should primarily enter as a teacher. I'd think that was obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142725	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142725-2	Thank you. I just think that the veil takes a special position both symbolically and very concretely, because it results in discrimination against the female sex, which we are rediscovering. Anyone who travels in and knows about the Muslim countries knows how it is done. I can see for myself how things have changed over the last 20 years, when Islamism has suddenly become a fashion that you subscribe to and which you also spread through symbols, such as the veil. Is. That is why I think it would be reasonable to consider banning it in an educational situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142818	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142818-2	Again, as Minister of Education, I would prefer to give up distinctive symbols, whether political or religious, when you as a teacher enter the classroom because you enter the classroom as a teacher and a person of authority. So I would definitely recommend that you do so, that as a teacher you neither put on your Che Guevara T-shirt nor put on a head scarf. But the question is whether it should be done illegally. We in the government do not plan to impose such a ban, but if DF wants a legal assessment of it, one can ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142858	The last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142858-2	I really think I would like to have a legal assessment of this. Now the legal assessments have, of course, a little influenced by whether the government wants it or the government does not want it. I have such a feeling that the burka ban also had the idea that it could not be done in relation to the constitution. Then it will be introduced, it will be introduced, and it will live, so to speak, well and will continue to influence our legislation in the right direction. But I would just like an indication that one can see that there is a problem in relation to the veil. I think it is a serious problem for the Danish school system that it is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142945	Here you go, the last answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116142946	Thank you. Well, as a woman and a citizen, I can have some personal opinions about it and find it strange that one sex is required to cover up. I think that's weird. There is no equivalent requirement for men. And I think it's good and important that women can ride a bike and let their hair hang freely and all these things. I do not think it may be necessary to cover up the man. But there is one step from there and to say that it must be illegal, and there is therefore no intention of the government to outlaw or ban, one might say, the scarf from the classroom.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143023	Thank you. That was the end of the question. The last question today is to the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143033	Is it the Minister's view that there are professional, educational and didactic problems with the use of digital learning means in primary school which go beyond pupils' learning?
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143046	Thank you for the question. I shall be the first to say that we should not just believe that if all students have an iPad, our children and young people are equipped for tomorrow's society. It doesn't work that way. Technology has the potential to strengthen professionalism, but it needs to be used where it makes sense, and often it simply needs to be turned off. The question is how we lift our responsibility to ensure that students gain insight into technology and at the same time find a proper balance between being analog and being digital. Over the past few years, there has been a lot of debate about the effects of IT in teaching. On the basis of PISA 2015 results, a report by McKinsey has indicated mixed effects using IT. On the other hand, a recent Rambølleevaluation of IT in primary school from 2018 shows that a majority of teachers and students experience positive effects by using IT, for example. IT can be used to differentiate teaching. The evaluation also shows that the quality of digital learning means has increased in recent years. The evaluation also highlights a number of challenges, including: in relation to ensuring, to an even greater extent, a high quality and the proper use of digital learning means. How, for example, can we do this? ensure a wide and very good supply of digital learning means? Almost a year ago, we launched an action plan for technology in education, which launched a number of initiatives here and now, including: with a view to developing a professional knowledge of technology in primary and lower secondary schools. But we also need to look further ahead. That is why I want to present a proposal for a long-term digitalisation strategy in the field of education. As a prelude to this strategy, I would like to take stock of and launch a broad debate on IT in education. That is why, in the spring, I would like to invite you to a broad debate on IT in education. Later in 2019 the government will then present a proposal for a strategy on how to use technology in teaching up to 2025, a strategy that supports that we can exploit the technology's many possibilities, where it makes sense in terms of making children smarter and more skilled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143256	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143257	Thank you for your answer and thank you for addressing the area. However, I would also like to express a concern that I do not think I am getting the full answer to the question I am asking. When the Minister refers to the 2018 report on primary school, it rightly describes that there is relatively much satisfaction and that you have an experience that this works well. But what I really wanted to hear from the Minister is that there is now more and more evidence. We have documentation from Canada, the United States, England, Ireland that shows that the use of digital learning means actually has a counterproductive impact on children's learning, i.e. that reading and note technology on digital media actually has a negative effect on the development of children's brains and their ability to learn. Then I get worried when I hear the Minister talking about a plan on how to use the digital, and then I need to hear an acknowledgement that we also have to take that concern into account, and perhaps we need to consider whether there are actually some negative effects in the use of the digital, although it might look as if it was easy, that it was smart and that it was fast. But if it does not support the children's development and the children's ability to learn, it might well be that it was sometimes better to settle for paper and pencil.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143421	Thank you. It is difficult to answer something so complex in such a short time, because it is quite true that there is cause for concern in certain areas, such as reading. I have also publicly criticised municipalities that only purchase learning material that is digital, because it is the case that if you have to read a longer text and immerse yourself, you still do better in a book or on paper. That's the way it is. On the other hand, there may also be areas where digitalisation has a really good effect, for example. if you are to differentiate learning skills such as spelling, simply all the technical skills in mathematics and Danish, for there the digital tool can have much to offer. So it depends entirely on what situation it is and there are situations where you should remove the digital and concentrate on the analogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143519	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143520	I still need confirmation from the Minister that the Minister recognises that, in relation to the development of children's brains, there is a problem if they use the digital aids too much. And then it may be that it can be clever and that it can give some help to those who are harder, that is to say, that you can better differentiate teaching by using digital aids, but if it affects the development of the children's brains, we have won nothing at all. So I would like the Minister to confirm that she recognises that there is indeed a problem that we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143556	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143556-2	Then I haven't made myself clear enough. I recognise that there can be a problem if you use only digital tools and that there can also be problems if municipalities only have digital learning tools, as the supply simply becomes much smaller. Both the supply of books, but also of textbooks etc. is smaller if you only have the digital. And that is why we must expect quality to fall, as the market is now, if we look only at the digital. So you have to be very critical when it comes to using digital tools, but this does not mean that digital tools cannot have a positive effect in some areas of learning and teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143648	Thank you. Last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143650	Well, then we moved on a little bit. Finally, I would just like to ask the Minister to confirm that in the plans and strategies that the Ministry will now embark on, this concern and the question of the use of the non-digital and neurological development of children's brains will have a significant place, so we are sure that we take account of that concern so that we do not just support continued digitalisation, but only use it where we can actually see that it gives a positive effect to children.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143719	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143721	Well, I would very much like to take that down positively. I look forward to discussing the strategy with the Danish People's Party, and we fully share the concern about what it means, if you remove the analogue tools and do not ensure that both children's brains are taken into account when they, for example, are taken into account. reading or having to immerse yourself, or the more bodily learning, because you need to get up and move. So the technology should not form the whole framework for learning and teaching. We are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143755	Thank you. That was the last question today.
ParlaMint-DK_20190116143759	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 17 January 2019 at 10:00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
